
     ----CITATION---- 
        Phillips, David Graham, 1867-1911. The Fashionable Adventures of Joshua Craig: electronic
                    edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2458
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                THE FASHIONABLE ADVENTURES OF JOSHUA CRAIG
                
            
            
            
                THE WORKS OF DAVID
                        GRAHAM PHILLIPS
                
                The Fashionable Adventures of Joshua Craig
                The Worth of a Woman
                Old Wives for New
                Light-fingered Gentry
                The Second Generation
                The Deluge The Master Rogue
                The Social Secretary Golden Fleece
                The Plum Tree A Woman Ventures
                The Cost The Great God Success
            
            
            
                
                
                    "`Don't go yet!' cried he. `We are
                        just beginning to get acquainted.'"
                
            
            
            
                
                    
                            The
                             FASHIONABLE ADVENTURES OF JOSHUA CRAIG
                        
                            A NOVEL
                        
                
                David Graham Phillips
                
                
                    D. APPLETON AND COMPANY
                    NEW YORK
                    1909
                
            
            
            
                COPYRIGHT, 1909, BY D. APPLETON AND
                    COMPANY
                COPYRIGHT, 1908, BY THE CURTIS PUBLISHING
                    COMPANY
                
                    Published, January, 1909
                
            
            
            
                CONTENTS
                
                    I.—MR. CRAIG ARRAYS HIMSELF
                        1
                    II.—IN THE BEST SOCIETY
                        17
                    III.—A DESPERATE YOUNG WOMAN
                        38
                    IV.—"HE ISN'T LIKE US" 57
                    V.—ALMOST HOOKED
                        71
                    VI.—MR. CRAIG IN SWEET DANGER
                        98
                    VII. MRS. SEVERENCE IS ROUSED
                        112
                    VIII.—MR. CRAIG CONFIDES
                        126
                    IX.—SOMEWHAT CYCLONIC
                        139
                    X.—A BELATED PROPOSAL
                        148
                    XI.—MADAM BOWKER HEARS THE NEWS
                        160
                    XII. PUTTING DOWN A MUTINY
                        172
                    XIII.—A MEMORABLE MEETING
                        193
                    XIV.—MAGGIE AND JOSH
                        212
                    XV.—THE EMBASSY GARDEN PARTY
                        225
                    XVI.—A FIGHT AND A FINISH
                        239
                    XVII.—A NIGHT MARCH
                        251
                    
                    XVIII.—PEACE AT ANY PRICE
                        259
                    XIX.—MADAM BOWKER'S BLESSING
                        276
                    XX. MR. CRAIG KISSES
                            THE IDOL'S FOOT
                        289
                    XXI.—A SWOOP AND A SCRATCH
                        300
                    XXII.—GETTING ACQUAINTED
                        320
                    XXIII.—WHAT THE MOON SAW AND DID
                        339
                    XXIV.—"OUR HOUSE
                            IS AFIRE" 347
                    XXV.—MRS. JOSHUA CRAIG
                        357
                
            
            
            
                LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS
                
                    "`Don't go yet! cried he. `We are just beginning to get
                        acquainted'" 
                            Frontispiece
                        
                    
                    "'It would be wiser . . . to marry a man who could get
                        money'" 24
                    "'Ah—Margaret!' . . . Her sharp,
                        quarrel-seeking voice tortured the girl's nerves" 48
                    "'I can't resist you—I
                        can't!' he cried" 144
                    "'I've got to kill something,' he
                        yelled. `Why not you?'" 246
                    "'Your temper is going to the devil'"
                            316
                    "She listened with a sense of delight" 344
                    "'Come on,' he said" 364
                
            
        
        
            
            
                THE FASHIONABLE ADVENTURES OF JOSHUA CRAIG
                
                    CHAPTER I
                    MR. CRAIG ARRAYS HIMSELF
                    It was one of the top-floor-rear flats in the Wyandotte, not merely biggest
                        of Washington's apartment hotels, but also "most
                        exclusive"— which is the elegant way of saying most
                        expensive. The Wyandotte had gone up before landlords grasped the obvious
                        truth that in a fire-proof structure locations farthest from noise and dust
                        should and could command highest prices; so Joshua Craig's flat was
                        the cheapest in the house. The ninety dollars a month loomed large in his
                        eyes, focused to little-town ideas of values; it was, in fact, small for
                        shelter in "the de luxe district of the de luxe quarter," to quote Mrs. Senator Mulvey,
                        that simple, far-Western soul, who, finding snobbishness to be the chief
                        distinguishing mark of the Eastern upper classes, assumed it was a virtue,
                        acquired it laboriously, and practiced it as openly and proudly as a
                        preacher does piety. Craig's  chief
                        splendor was a sitting-room, called a parlor and bedecked in the red plush
                        and Nottingham that represent hotel men's probably shrewd guess at
                        the traveling public's notion of interior opulence. Next the
                        sitting-room, and with the same dreary outlook, or, rather, downlook, upon
                        disheveled and squalid back yards, was a dingy box of a bedroom. Like the
                        parlor, it was outfitted with furniture that had degenerated upward, floor
                        by floor, from the spacious and luxurious first-floor suites. Between the
                        two rooms, in dark mustiness, lay a bathroom with suspicious-looking,
                        wood-inclosed plumbing; the rusted iron of the tub peered through scuffs and
                        seams in the age-grayed porcelain.
                    Arkwright glanced from the parlor where he was sitting into the gloom of the
                        open bathroom and back again. His cynical brown-green eyes paused upon a
                        scatter of clothing, half-hiding the badly-rubbed red plush of the sofa
                        — a mussy flannel nightshirt with mothholes here and there; kneed
                        trousers, uncannily reminiscent of a rough and strenuous wearer; a
                        smoking-jacket that, after a youth of cheap gayety, was now a frayed and
                        tattered wreck, like an old tramp, whose "better days"
                        were none too good. On the radiator stood a pair of wrinkled shoes that had
                        never known trees; their soles were curved like rockers. An old pipe  clamored at his nostrils, though it was on the
                        table near the window, the full length of the room from him. Papers and
                        books were strewn about everywhere. It was difficult to believe these
                        unkempt and uncouth surroundings, and the personality that had created them,
                        were actually being harbored behind the walls of the Wyandotte.
                    "What a hole!" grumbled Arkwright. He was in evening
                        clothes, so correct in their care and in their carelessness that even a
                        woman would have noted and admired. "What a mess! What a
                        hole!"
                    "How's that?" came from the bedroom in an
                        aggressive voice, so penetrating that it seemed loud, though it was not, and
                        much roughened by open-air speaking. "What are you growling
                        about?"
                    Arkwright raised his tone: "Filthy hole!" said he.
                        "Filthy mess!"
                    Now appeared in the bedroom door a tall young man of unusual strength and
                        nearly perfect proportions. The fine head was carried commandingly; with its
                        crop of dark, matted hair it suggested the rude, fierce figure-head of a
                        Viking galley; the huge, aggressively-masculine features proclaimed
                        ambition, energy, intelligence. To see Josh Craig was to have instant sense
                        of the presence of a personality. The contrast between him  standing half-dressed in the doorway and the
                        man seated in fashionable and cynically-critical superciliousness was more
                        than a matter of exteriors. Arkwright, with features carved, not hewn as
                        were Craig's, handsome in civilization's over-trained,
                        overbred extreme, had an intelligent, superior look also. But it was the
                        look of expertness in things hardly worth the trouble of learning; it was
                        aristocracy's highly-prized air of the dog that leads in the bench
                        show and tails in the field. He was like a firearm polished and incrusted
                        with gems and hanging in a connoisseur's wall-case; Josh was like a
                        battle-tested rifle in the sinewy hands of an Indian in full war-paint.
                        Arkwright showed that he had physical strength, too; but it was of the kind
                        got at the gymnasium and at gentlemanly sport — the kind that wins
                        only where the rules are carefully refined and amateurized. Craig's
                        figure had the solidity, the tough fiber of things grown in the open air, in
                        the cold, wet hardship of the wilderness.
                    Arkwright's first glance of admiration for this figure of the forest
                        and the teepee changed to a mingling of amusement and irritation. The
                        barbarian was not clad in the skins of wild beasts, which would have set him
                        off superbly, but was trying to get himself arrayed for a fashionable ball.
                        He had on evening trousers, pumps,  black cotton
                        socks with just enough silk woven in to give them the shabby, shamed air of
                        having been caught in a snobbish pretense at being silk. He was buttoning a
                        shirt torn straight down the left side of the bosom from collar-band to end
                        of tail; and the bosom had the stiff, glassy glaze that advertises the cheap
                        laundry.
                    "Didn't you write me I must get an apartment in this
                        house?" demanded he.
                    "Not in the attic," rejoined Arkwright.
                    "I can't afford anything better."
                    "You can't afford anything so bad."
                    "Bad!"
                    Craig looked round as pleased as a Hottentot with a string of colored glass
                        beads. "Why, I've got a private sitting-room and a private bath! I never was so well-off before in my life. I
                        tell you, Grant, I'm not surprised any more that you Easterners get
                        effete and worthless. I begin to like this lolling in luxury, and I keep the
                        bell-boys on the jump. Won't you have something to
                        drink?"
                    Arkwright pointed his slim cane at the rent in the shirt. "What are
                        you going to do with that?" said he.
                    "This? Oh!" — Josh thrust his thick
                        backwoods-man's hand in the tear — "Very simple.
                        A safety-pin  or so from the lining of the vest
                        — excuse me, waistcoat — into the edge of the
                        bosom."
                    "Splendid!" ejaculated Arkwright.
                        "Superb!"
                    Craig, with no scent for sarcasm so delicate, pushed on with enthusiasm:
                        "The safety-pin's the mainstay of bachelor life,"
                        said he rhetorically. "It's his badge of freedom. Why, I
                        can even repair socks with it!"
                    "Throw that shirt away," said Arkwright, with a
                        contemptuous switch of his cane. "Put on another. You're
                        not dressing for a shindy in a shack."
                    "But it's the only one of my half-dozen that has a bang-up
                        bosom."
                    "Bang-up? That sheet of mottled mica?"
                    Craig surveyed the shiny surface ruefully. "What's the
                        matter with this?" he demanded.
                    "Oh, nothing," replied Arkwright, in disgust.
                        "Only, it looks more like something to roof a house with than like
                        linen for a civilized man."
                    Craig reared. "But, damn it, Grant, I'm not civilized.
                        I'm a wild man, and I'm going to stay wild. I belong to
                        the common people, and it's my game — and my preference,
                        too — to stick to them. I'm willing to make concessions;
                        I'm not a fool. I know there was a certain amount of truth in those
                        letters you took the trouble to write me from Europe. I know that to play
                             the game here in Washington I've
                        got to do something in society. But" — here
                        Josh's eyes flashed, and he bent on his friend a look that was
                        impressive — "I'm still going to be myself.
                        I'll make 'em accept me as I am. Dealing with men as
                        individuals, I make them do what I want, make 'em
                        like me as I am."
                    "Every game has its own rules," said Arkwright.
                    "You'll get on better — quicker — go
                        further — here if you'll learn a few elementary things. I
                        don't see that wearing a whole shirt decently done up is going to
                        compromise any principles. Surely you can do that and still be as common as
                        you like. The people look up to the fellow that's just a little
                        better dressed than they."
                    Josh eyed Arkwright in the way that always made him wonder whether he was in
                        full possession of the secret of this strenuous young Westerner.
                        "But," said he, "they love and trust the man who
                        will have nothing which all may not have. The shirt will do for this
                        evening." And he turned back into the bedroom.
                    Arkwright reflected somewhat uncomfortably. He felt that he himself was
                        right; yet he could not deny that "Josh's cheap
                        demagoguery" sounded fine and true. He soon forgot the argument in
                        the study of his surroundings. "You're living like a wild
                        beast here, Josh," he presently called out. "You must get
                        a valet."  A loud laugh was the
                        reply.
                    "Or a wife," continued Arkwright. Then, in the voice of one
                        announcing an inspiration, "Yes — that's it! A
                        wife!"
                    Craig reappeared. He had on his waistcoat and coat now, and his hair was
                        brushed. Arkwright could not but admit that the personality took the edge
                        off the clothes; even the "mottled mica"— the
                        rent was completely hid — seemed to have lost the worst of its
                        glaze and stiffness. "You'll do, Josh," said he.
                        "I spoke too quickly. If I hadn't accidentally been thrust
                        into the innermost secrets of your toilet I'd never have
                        suspected." He looked the Westerner over with gentle, friendly
                        patronage. "Yes, you'll do. You look fairly well at a
                        glance — and a man's clothes rarely get more than
                        that."
                    Craig released his laugh upon his fastidious friend's judicial
                        seriousness. "The trouble with you, Grant, is you've never
                        lived a human life. You've always been sheltered and pampered,
                        lifted in and out of bed by valets, had a suit of clothes for every hour in
                        the day. I don't see how it is I happen to like you." And
                        in Craig's face and voice there was frankly the condescension of
                        superior to undoubted inferior.
                    Arkwright seemed to be wavering between resentment  and amused disdain. Then he remembered the circumstances of their first
                        acquaintance — those frightful days in the Arizona desert, without
                        food, with almost no water, and how this man had been absolute ruler of the
                        party of lost and dying men; how he had forced them to march on and on, with
                        entreaties, with curses, with blows finally; how he had brought them to
                        safety — all as a matter of course, without any vanity or boasting
                        — had been leader by divine right of strength of body and soul.
                        Grant turned his eyes from Craig, for there were tears in them. "I
                        don't see why you like me, either, Josh," said he.
                        "But you do — and — damn it all, I'd die
                        for you."
                    "I guess you'll come pretty near dying of shame before this
                        evening's over," laughed Craig. "This is the
                        first time in my life I ever was in a fashionable company."
                    "There's nothing to be frightened about," Grant
                        assured him.
                    "Frightened!" Josh laughed boisterously —
                        Arkwright could have wished he would temper that laugh. "I
                        — frightened by a bunch of popinjays? You see, it's not
                        really in the least important whether they like me or not — at
                        least, not to me. I'll get there, anyhow. And when I do,
                        I'll deal with them according  to
                        their deserts. So they'd better hustle to get solid with
                        me."
                    In the two years since he had seen Craig, Arkwright had almost forgotten his
                        habit of bragging and blowing about himself — what he had done,
                        what he was going to do. The newspapers, the clippings Josh sent him, had
                        kept him informed of the young Minnesotan's steady, rapid rise in
                        politics; and whenever he recalled the absurd boasting that had made him
                        feel Craig would never come to anything, he assumed it was a weakness of
                        youth and inexperience which had, no doubt, been conquered. But, no; here
                        was the same old, conceited Josh, as crudely and vulgarly self-confident as
                        when he was twenty-five and just starting at the law in a country town. Yet
                        Arkwright could not but admit there had been more than a grain of truth in
                        Craig's former self-laudations, that there was in victories won a
                        certain excuse for his confidence about the future. This young man, not much
                        beyond thirty, with a personality so positive and so rough that he made
                        enemies right and left, rousing the envy of men to fear that here was an
                        ambition which must be downed or it would become a tyranny over them
                        — this young man, by skill at politics and by sympathetic power
                        with people in the mass, had already compelled a President who
                        didn't like  him to appoint him to the
                        chief post under an Attorney-General who detested him.
                    "How are you getting on with the Attorney-General?" asked
                        Arkwright, as they set out in his electric brougham.
                    "He's getting on with me much better," replied
                        Craig, "now that he has learned not to trifle with
                        me."
                    "Stillwater is said to be a pretty big man," said Arkwright
                        warningly.
                    "The bigger the man, the easier to frighten," replied Josh
                        carelessly, "because the more he's got to lose. But
                        it's a waste of time to talk politics to you. Grant, old man,
                        I'm sick and worn out, and how lonesome! I'm successful.
                        But what of that, since I'm miserable? If it wasn't for my
                        sense of duty, by Heaven, I sometimes think I'd drop it all and go
                        back to Wayne."
                    "Don't do that, Josh!" exclaimed Arkwright.
                        "Don't let the country go rolling off to
                        ruin!"
                    "Like all small creatures," said Craig, "you take
                        serious matters lightly, and light matters seriously. You were right a
                        moment ago when you said I needed a wife."
                    "That's all settled," said Grant.
                        "I'm going to get you one."
                    
                    "A woman doesn't need a man — if she
                        isn't too lazy to earn a living," pursued Craig.
                        "But what's a man without a woman about?"
                    "You want a wife, and you want her quick," said
                        Arkwright.
                    "You saw what a condition my clothes are in. Then, I need somebody
                        to talk with."
                    "To talk to," corrected Grant.
                    "I can't have you round all the time to talk
                        to."
                    "Heaven forbid!" cried Arkwright. "You never talk
                        about anything but yourself."
                    "Some day, my boy," said Josh, with his grave good humor of
                        the great man tolerating the antics of a mountebank,
                        "you'll appreciate it wasn't the subject that was
                        dull, but the ears. For the day'll come when everybody'll
                        be thinking and talking about me most of the time."
                    Arkwright grinned. "It's lucky you don't let go
                        before everybody like that."
                    "Yes, but I do," rejoined Craig. "And why not?
                        They can't stop my going ahead. Besides, it's not a bad
                        idea" — be nodded, with that shrewdness which was the
                        great, deep-lying vein in his nature — "not at all a bad
                        idea, to have people think you a frank, loose-mouthed, damn fool —
                            if you ain't. Ambition's a war.  And it's a tremendous advantage to
                        lead your enemies to underestimate you. That's one reason why I always win. . . . So you're going to
                            try to get me a wife?"
                    "I'm going to get you one — one of the sort you
                        need. You need a woman who'll tame you down and lick you into
                        shape."
                    Craig smiled scornfully.
                    "One who'll know how to smooth the enemies you make with
                        your rough-and-tumble manners; one who'll win friends for you
                        socially —"
                    Josh made a vehement gesture of dissent. "Not on your
                        life!" cried he. "Of course, my wife must be a lady, and
                        interested in my career. But none of your meddling politicians in petticoats
                        for me! I'll do my own political maneuvering. I want a woman, not a
                        bad imitation of a man."
                    "Well, let that go," said Arkwright. "Also, she
                        ought to be able to supply you with funds for your political
                        machinery."
                    Josh sat up as if this were what he had been listening for.
                    "That's right!" cried he. "Politics is
                        hell for a poor man, nowadays. The people are such thoughtless,
                        short-sighted fools —" He checked himself,  and in a different tone went on:
                        "However, I don't mean exactly that
                        —"
                    "You needn't hedge, Josh, with me."
                    "I don't want you to be thinking I'm looking for a
                        rich woman."
                    "Not at all — not at all," laughed his friend.
                    "If she had too much money it'd be worse for my career than
                        if she had none at all."
                    "I understand," said Arkwright.
                    "Enough money to make me independent — if I should get in a
                        tight place," continued Josh. "Yes, I must marry. The
                        people are suspicious of a bachelor. The married men resent his freedom
                        — even the happily married ones. And all the women, married and
                        single, resent his not surrendering."
                    "I never suspected you of cynicism."
                    "Yes," continued Craig, in an instantly and radically
                        changed tone, "the people like a married man, a man with children.
                        It looks respectable, settled. It makes 'em feel he's got
                        a stake in the country — a home and property to defend. Yes, I want
                        a wife."
                    "I don't see why you've neglected it so
                        long."
                    "Too busy."
                    "And too — ambitious," suggested Arkwright.
                    "What do you mean?" demanded Josh, bristling.
                    
                    "You thought you'd wait to marry until you were nearer your
                        final place in the world. Being cut out for a king, you know — why,
                        you thought you'd like a queen — me of those fine,
                        delicate ladies you'd read about."
                    Craig's laugh might have been confession, it might have been mere
                        amusement. "I want a wife that suits me," said he.
                        "And I'll get her."
                    It was Arkwright's turn to be amused. "There's one
                        game you don't in the least understand," said he.
                    "What game is that?"
                    "The woman game."
                    Craig shrugged contemptuously. "Marbles! Jacks!" Then he
                        added: "Now that I'm about ready to marry, I'll
                        look the offerings over." He clapped his friend on the shoulder.
                        "And you can bet your last cent I'll take what I
                        want."
                    "Don't be too sure," jeered Arkwright.
                    The brougham was passing a street lamp that for an instant illuminated
                        Craig's face. Again Arkwright saw the expression that made him feel
                        extremely uncertain of the accuracy of his estimates of the "wild
                        man's" character.
                    "Yes, I'll get her," said Josh, "and for
                        a reason that never occurs to you shallow people. I get what I  want because what I want wants me —
                        for the same reason that the magnet gets the steel."
                    Arkwright looked admiringly at his friend's strong, aggressive
                        face.
                    "You're a queer one, Josh," said he.
                        "Nothing ordinary about you."
                    "I should hope not!" exclaimed Craig. "Now for the
                        plunge."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER II
                    IN THE BEST SOCIETY
                    Grant's electric had swung in at the end of the long line of
                        carriages of all kinds, from coach of ambassador and costly limousine of
                        multi-millionaire to humble herdic wherein poor, official grandee's
                        wife and daughter were feeling almost as common as if they had come in a
                        street car or afoot. Josh Craig, leaning from the open window, could see the
                        grand entrance under the wide and lofty porte-cochère — the women,
                        swathed in silk and fur, descending from the carriages and entering the
                        wide-flung doors of the vestibule; liveries, flowers, lights, sounds of
                        stringed instruments, intoxicating glimpses of magnificence at windows, high
                        and low. And now the electric was at the door. He and Arkwright sprang out,
                        hastened up the broad steps. His expression amused Arkwright; it was
                        intensely self-conscious, resolutely indifferent — the kind of look
                        that betrays tempestuous inward perturbations and misgivings. "Josh
                        is a good deal of a snob, for all his brave talk," thought he.
                        "But," he went on to reflect, "that's
                        only human.  We're all impressed by
                        externals, no matter what we may pretend to ourselves and to others.
                        I've been used to this sort of thing all my life and I know how
                        little there is in it, yet I'm in much the same state of
                        bedazzlement as Josh."
                    Josh had a way of answering people's thoughts direct which Arkwright
                        sometimes suspected was not altogether accidental. He now said:
                        "But there's a difference between your point of view and
                        mine. You take this seriously through and through. I laugh at it in the
                        bottom of my heart, and size it up at its true value. I'm like a
                        child that don't really believe in goblins, yet likes the shivery
                        effects of goblin stories."
                    "I don't believe in goblins, either," said
                        Arkwright.
                    "You don't believe in anything else," said
                        Josh.
                    Arkwright steered him through the throng, and up to the hostess —
                        Mrs. Burke, stout, honest, with sympathy in her eyes and humor in the lines
                        round her sweet mouth. "Well, Josh," she said in a slow,
                        pleasant monotone, "you have done a lot of
                        growing since I saw you. I always knew you'd come to some bad end.
                        And here you are — in politics and in society. Gus!"
                    A tall, haughty-looking young woman, standing next her, turned and fixed upon
                        Craig a pair of deep, deep eyes that somehow flustered him. Mrs. Burke
                        presented  him, and he discovered that it was
                        her daughter-in-law. While she was talking with Arkwright, he examined her
                        toilette. He thought it startling — audacious in its display of
                        shoulders and back — until he got over his dazed, dazzled feeling,
                        and noted the other women about. Wild horses could not have dragged it from
                        him, but he felt that this physical display was extremely immodest; and at
                        the same time that he eagerly looked his face burned. "If I do pick
                        one of these," said he to himself, "I'm jiggered
                        if I let her appear in public dressed this way. Why, out home women have
                        been white-capped for less."
                    Arkwright had drifted away from him; he let the crowd gently push him toward
                        the wall, into the shelter of a clump of palms and ferns. There, with his
                        hands in his pockets, and upon his face what he thought an excellent
                        imitation of Arkwright's easy, bored expression of thinly-veiled
                        cynicism, he surveyed the scene and tried to judge it from the standpoint of
                        the "common people." His verdict was that it was vain,
                        frivolous, unworthy, beneath the serious consideration of a man of affairs
                        such as he. But he felt that he was not quite frank, in fact was dishonest,
                        with himself in this lofty disdain. It represented what he ought to feel,
                        not what he actually was feeling. "At least," said he to
                        himself, "I'll never  confess
                        to any one that I'm weak enough to be impressed by this sort of
                        thing. Anyhow, to confess a weakness is to encourage it. . . . No wonder
                        society is able to suck in and destroy so many fellows of my sort! If I am tempted what must it mean to the ordinary
                        man?" He noted with angry shame that he felt a swelling of pride
                        because he, of so lowly an origin, born no better than the machine-like
                        lackeys, had been able to push himself in upon — yes, up among
                        — these people on terms of equality. And it was, for the moment, in
                        vain that he reminded himself that most of them were of full as lowly origin
                        as he; that few indeed could claim to be more than one generation removed
                        from jack-boots and jeans; that the most elegant had more relations among
                        the "vulgar herd" than they had among the "high
                        folks."
                    "What are you looking so glum and sour about?" asked
                        Arkwright.
                    He startled guiltily. So, his mean and vulgar thoughts had been reflected in
                        his face. "I was thinking of the case I have to try before the
                        Supreme Court next week," said he.
                    "Well, I'll introduce you to one of the Justices —
                        old Towler. He comes of the `common people,' like you. But he
                        dearly loves fashionable society — makes  himself ridiculous going to balls and trying to flirt.
                        It'll do you no end of good to meet these people socially.
                        You'll be surprised to see how respectful and eager
                        they'll all be if you become a recognized social favorite. For real
                        snobbishness give me your friends, the common people, when they get up where
                        they can afford to put on airs. Why, even the President has a sneaking
                        hankering after fashionable people. I tell you, in Washington everything goes by social favor, just as it does in London
                        — and would in Paris if fashionable society would deign to notice
                        the Republic."
                    "Introduce me to old Towler," said Craig, curt and bitter.
                        He was beginning to feel that Arkwright was at least in part right; and it
                        angered him for the sake of the people from whom he had sprung, and to whom
                        he had pledged his public career. "Then," he went on,
                        "I'm going home. And you'll see me among these
                        butterflies and hoptoads no more."
                    "Can't trust yourself, eh?" suggested
                        Arkwright.
                    Craig flashed exaggerated scorn that was confession.
                    "I'll do better than introduce you to Towler,"
                        proceeded Arkwright. "I'll present you to his daughter
                        — a dyed and padded old horror, but very influential with her
                        father and all the older crowd. Sit up to her, Josh. You can lay the
                        flattery on as thick as her paint and  as high
                        as her topknot of false hair. If she takes to you your fortune's
                        made."
                    "I tell you, my fortune is not dependent on —"
                        began Craig vehemently.
                    "Cut it out, old man," interrupted Arkwright. "No
                        stump speeches here. They don't go. They bore people and create an
                        impression that you're both ridiculous and
                        hypocritical."
                    Arkwright left Josh with Towler's daughter, Mrs. Raymond, who was by
                        no means the horror Arkwright's language of fashionable
                        exaggeration had pictured, and who endured Craig's sophomoric
                        eulogies of "your great and revered father," because the
                        eulogist was young and handsome, and obviously anxious to please her. As
                        Arkwright passed along the edge of the dancers a fan reached out and touched
                        him on the arm. He halted, faced the double line of women, mostly elderly,
                        seated on the palm-roofed dais extending the length of that end of the
                        ballroom.
                    "Hel — lo!" called he.
                        "Just the person I was looking for. How is Margaret this
                        evening?"
                    "As you see," replied the girl, unfurling the long fan of
                        eagle plumes with which she had tapped him. "Sit down. . . .
                        Jackie"— this to a rosy, eager-faced youth beside her
                        —" run away and amuse yourself.  I want to talk seriously to this elderly person."
                    "I'm only seven years older than you," said
                        Arkwright, as he seated himself where Jackie had been vainly endeavoring to
                        induce Miss Severence to take him seriously.
                    "And I am twenty-eight, and have to admit to twenty-four,"
                        said Margaret.
                    "Don't frown that way. It makes wrinkles; and
                        what's more unsightly than a wrinkled brow in a
                        woman?"
                    "I don't in the least care," replied the girl.
                        "I've made up my mind to stop fooling and
                        marry."
                    "Jackie?"
                    "If I can't do better." She laughed a low, sweet
                        laugh, like her voice; and her voice suggested a leisurely brook flitting
                        among mossy stones. "You see, I've lost that first bloom
                        of youth the wife-pickers prize so highly. I'm not unsophisticated
                        enough to please them. And I haven't money enough to make them
                        overlook such defects as maturity and intelligence — in fact,
                        I've no money at all."
                    "You were never so good-looking in your life," said Grant.
                        "I recall you were rather homely as a child and merely nice and
                        fresh-looking when you came out. You're one of those that improve
                        with time."
                    
                    "Thanks," said the girl dryly. She was in no mood for the
                        barren blossom of non-marrying men's compliments.
                    "The trouble with you is the same as with me," pursued he.
                        "We've both spent our time with the young married set,
                        where marriage is regarded as a rather stupid joke. You ought to have stuck
                        to the market-place until your business was settled."
                    She nodded a thoughtful assent. "Yes, that was my sad
                        mistake," said she. "However, I'm going to do my
                        best to repair it."
                    He reflected. "You must marry money," he declared, as if it
                        were a verdict.
                    "Either some one who's got it or some one who can get
                        it."
                    "Some one who's got it, I'd advise."
                    "Bad advice," commented the girl, her hazel eyes gazing
                        dreamily, languorously into the distance. She looked a woman on romance
                        bent, a woman without a mercenary thought in her head. "Very bad
                        advice," she went on. "Men who've got money may
                        lose it and be unable to make any more. What a helpless thing you'd be but for what you have inherited and will
                        inherit. Yet you're above the average of our sort."
                    "Humph!" said Arkwright, with an irritated laugh. 
                        
                            It would be wiser . . . to marry a man who could get
                                money.'"
                        
                         Humor at his expense was a severe strain upon
                        him. It always is to those whose sense of humor is keen; for they best
                        appreciate the sting that lies in the pleasantest jest.
                    "It would be wiser — if one dared be wise,"
                        pursued the girl, "to marry a man who could get money. That kind of
                        man is safest. Only death or insanity can make him a
                        disappointment."
                    Arkwright eyed her curiously. "What a good head you've got
                        on you, Rita," said he. "Like your
                        grandmother."
                    The girl shivered slightly. "Don't speak
                        of her!" she exclaimed with an uneasy glance around. And Grant knew
                        he was correct in his suspicion as to who was goading and lashing her to
                        hasten into matrimony.
                    "Well — have you selected your —"
                    As Arkwright hesitated she supplied, "Victim." They
                        laughed, she less enthusiastically than he. "Though," she
                        added, "I assure you, I'll make him happy. It takes
                        intelligence to make a man happy, even if he wants the most unintelligent
                        kind of happiness. And you've just admitted I'm not
                        stupid."
                    Arkwright was studying her. He had a sly instinct that there was a reason
                        deeper than their old and intimate friendship for her reposing this extreme
                        of confidence  in him. No doubt she was not
                        without a vague hope that possibly this talk might set him to thinking of
                        her as a wife for himself. Well, why not? He ought to marry, and he could
                        afford it. Where would he find a more ladylike person — or where
                        one who was at the same time so attractive? He studied, with a certain
                        personal interest, her delicate face, her figure, slim and gracefully
                        curved, as her evening dress fully revealed it. Yes, a charming, most
                        ladylike figure. And the skin of her face, of neck and shoulders, was
                        beautifully white, and of the texture suggesting that it will rub if too
                        impetuously caressed. Yes, a man would hesitate to kiss her unless he were
                        well shaved. At the very thought of kissing her Grant felt a thrill and a
                        glow she had never before roused in him. She had an abundance of blue-black
                        hair, and it and her slender black brows and long lashes gave her hazel eyes
                        a peculiar charm of mingled passion and languor. She had a thin nose, well
                        shaped, its nostrils very sensitive; slightly, charmingly-puckered lips; a
                        small, strong chin. Certainly she had improved greatly in the two years
                        since he had seen her in evening dress. "Though, perhaps,"
                        reflected he, "I only think so because I used to see her too much,
                        really to appreciate her."
                    "Well, why didn't you?" she was saying, idly  waving her fan and gazing vaguely around the
                        room.
                    "Why didn't I — what?"
                    "You were trying to decide why you never fell in love with
                        me."
                    "So I was," admitted Arkwright.
                    "Now if I had had lots of cash," mocked she.
                    He reddened, winced. She had hit the exact reason. Having a great deal of
                        money, he wanted more — enough to make the grandest kind of splurge
                        in a puddle where splurge was everything. "Rather, because you are
                        too intelligent," drawled he. "I want somebody
                        who'd fit into my melting moods, not a woman who'd make me
                        ashamed by seeming to sit in judgment on my folly."
                    "A man mustn't have too much respect for a woman if
                        he's to fall utterly in love with her — must
                        he?"
                    Arkwright smiled constrainedly. He liked cynical candor in men, but only
                        pretended to like it in women because bald frankness in women was now the
                        fashion. "See," said he, "how ridiculous
                        I'd feel trying to say sentimental things to you. Besides,
                        it's not easy to fall in love with a girl one has known since she
                        was born, and with whom he's always been on terms of brotherly,
                        quite unsentimental intimacy."
                    Rita gave him a look that put this suggestion out of  countenance by setting him to thrilling again. He felt that her
                        look was artful, was deliberate, but he could not help responding to it. He
                        began to be a little afraid of her, a little nervous about her; but he
                        managed to say indifferently, "And why haven't you fallen in love with me?"
                    
                    She smiled. "It isn't proper for a well-brought-up girl to
                        love until she is loved, is it?" Her expression gave Grant a faint
                        suggestion of a chill of apprehension lest she should be about to take
                        advantage of their friendship by making a dead set for him. But she speedily
                        tranquilized him by saying: "No, my reason was that I
                        didn't want to spoil my one friendship. Even a business person
                        craves the luxury of a friend — and marrying has been my
                        business," this with a slight curl of her pretty, somewhat cruel
                        mouth. "To be quite frank, I gave you up as a possibility years
                        ago. I saw I wasn't your style. Your tastes in women are rather
                        — coarse."
                    Arkwright flushed. "I do like 'em a bit noisy and
                        silly," he admitted. "That sort is so — so gemüthlich, as the Germans say."
                    "Who's the man you delivered over to old Patsy Raymond? I
                        see he's still fast to her."
                    "Handsome, isn't he?"
                    
                    "Of a sort."
                    "It's Craig — the Honorable Joshua Craig
                        — Assistant to the Attorney-General.
                        He's from Minnesota. He's the real thing. But
                        you'd not like him."
                    "He looks quite — tame, compared to what he was two years
                        or so ago," said Rita, her voice as indolent as her slowly-moving
                        eagle feathers.
                    "Oh, you've met him?"
                    "No — only saw him. When I went West with the Burkes, Gus
                        and the husband took me to a political meeting — one of those
                        silly, stuffy gatherings where some blatant politician bellows out a lot of
                        lies, and a crowd of badly-dressed people listen and swallow and yelp. Your
                        friend was one of the speakers. What he said sounded —"
                        Rita paused for a word.
                    "Sounded true," suggested Grant.
                    "Not at all. Nobody really cares anything about the people, not even
                        themselves. No, it sounded as if he had at least half-convinced himself,
                        while the others showed they were lying outright. We rather liked him
                        — at the safe distance of half the hall. He's the kind of
                        man that suggests — menageries — lions — danger
                        if the bars break."
                    "How women do like that in a man!"
                    "Do you know him?"
                    
                    "Through and through. He's a fraud, of course, like all
                        politicians. But beneath the fraud there's man — I think
                        — a great, big man, strong and sure of himself — which is
                        what can't be said of many of us who wear trousers and pose as
                        lords of creation."
                    The girl seemed to have ceased to listen, was apparently watching the
                        dancers, Arkwright continued to gaze at his friend, to admire the
                        impressive, if obviously posed, effect of his handsome head and shoulders.
                        He smiled with a tender expression, as one smiles at the weakness of those
                        one loves. Suddenly he said: "By Jove, Rita — just the
                        thing!"
                    "What?" asked the girl, resuming the languid waving of her
                        eagle fan.
                    "Marry him — marry Josh Craig. He'll not make much
                        money out of politics. I doubt if even a woman could corrupt him that far.
                        But you could take him out of politics and put him in the law. He could roll
                        it up there. The good lawyers sell themselves dear nowadays, and
                        he'd make a killing."
                    "This sounds interesting."
                    "It's a wonder I hadn't thought of it
                        before."
                    The girl gave a curious, quiet smile, "I
                        had," said she.
                    
                        "You had!" exclaimed Arkwright.
                    
                    "A woman always keeps a careful list of eligibles,"
                        explained she. "As Bucy Burke told me he was headed for Washington,
                        I put him on my list that very night — well down toward the bottom,
                        but, still, on it. I had quite forgotten him until to-night."
                    Arkwright was staring at her. Her perfect frankness, absolute naturalness
                        with him, unreserved trust of him, gave him a guilty feeling for the bitter
                        judgment on her character which he had secretly formed as the result of her
                        confidences. "Yet, really," thought he,
                        "she's quite the nicest girl I know, and the cleverest. If
                        she had hid herself from me, as the rest do, I'd never for one
                        instant have suspected her of having so much — so much —
                        calm, good sense — for that's all it amounts to."
                        He decided it was a mistake for any human being in any circumstances to be
                        absolutely natural and unconcealingly candid. "We're such
                        shallow fakers," reflected he, "that if any one confesses
                        to us things not a tenth part as bad as what we privately think and do, why,
                        we set him — or her — especially her — down as a
                        living, breathing atrocity in pants or petticoats."
                    Margaret was of the women who seem never to think of what they are really
                        absorbed in, and never to look at what they are really scrutinizing. She
                        disconcerted  him by interrupting his
                        reflections with: "Your private opinion of me is of small
                        consequence to me, Grant, beside the relief and the joy of being able to say
                        my secret self aloud. Also" — here she grew dizzy at her
                        own audacity in the frankness that fools —"Also, if I
                        wished to get you, Grant, or any man, I'd not be silly enough to
                        fancy my character or lack of it would affect him. That isn't what
                        wins men — is it?"
                    "You and Josh Craig have a most uncomfortable way of answering
                        people's thoughts," said Arkwright. "Now, how did
                        you guess I was thinking mean things about you?"
                    "For the same reason that Mr. Craig is able to guess what's
                        going on in your head."
                    "And that reason is —"
                    She laughed mockingly. "Because I know you, Grant Arkwright
                        — you, the meanest-generous man, and the most generous-mean man the
                        Lord ever permitted. The way to make you generous is to give you a mean
                        impulse; the way to make you mean is to set you to fearing you're
                        in danger of being generous."
                    "There's a bouquet with an asp coiled in it," said
                        Arkwright, pleased; for with truly human vanity he had accepted the
                        compliment and had thrown away the criticism. "I'll go
                        bring Josh Craig."
                    
                    "No, not to-night," said Miss Severence, with a sudden
                        compression of the lips and a stern, almost stormy contraction of the
                        brows.
                    "Please don't do that, Rita," cried Arkwright.
                        "It reminds me of your grandmother."
                    The girl's face cleared instantly, and all overt signs of strength
                        of character vanished in her usual expression of sweet, reserved femininity.
                        "Bring him tomorrow," said she. "A little late,
                        please. I want others to be there, so that I can study him
                        unobserved." She laughed. "This is a serious matter for
                        me. My time is short, and my list of possible eligibles less extended than I
                        could wish." And with a satiric smile and a long, languorous,
                        coquettish glance, she waved him away and waved the waiting Jackie into his
                        place.
                    Arkwright found Craig clear of "Patsy" Raymond and against
                        the wall near the door. He was obviously unconscious of himself, of the
                        possibility that he might be observed. His eyes were pouncing from blaze of
                        jewels to white neck, to laughing, sensuous face, to jewels again or to
                        lithe, young form, scantily clad and swaying in masculine arm in rhythm with
                        the waltz. It gave Arkwright a qualm of something very like terror to note
                        the contrast between his passive figure and his roving eyes with their
                        wolfish gleam — like Blücher,  when he
                        looked out over London and said: "God! What a city to
                        sack!"
                    Arkwright thought Josh was too absorbed to be aware of his approach; but as
                        soon as he was beside him Josh said: "You were right about that
                        apartment of mine. It's a squalid hole. Six months ago, when I got
                        my seventy-five hundred a year, I thought I was rich. Rich? Why, that woman
                        there has ten years' salary on her hair. All the money I and my
                        whole family ever saw wouldn't pay for the rings on any one of a
                        hundred hands here. It makes me mad and it makes me greedy."
                    "I warned you," said Arkwright.
                    Craig wheeled on him. "You don't — can't
                        — understand. You're like all these people. Money is your
                        god. But I don't want money, I want power — to make all
                        these snobs with their wealth, these millionaires, these women with fine
                        skins and beautiful bodies, bow down before me — that's
                        what I want!"
                    Arkwright laughed. "Well, it's up to you,
                        Joshua."
                    Craig tossed his Viking head. "Yes, it's up to me, and
                        I'll get what I want — the people and I. . . .
                        Who's that frightful person?"
                    Into the room, only a few feet from them, advanced an old woman —
                        very old, but straight as a projectile. She carried her head high, and her
                        masses of gray-white  bair, coiled like a
                        crown, gave her the seeming of royalty in full panoply. There was white lace
                        over her black velvet at the shoulders; her train swept yards behind her.
                        She was bearing a cane, or rather a staff, of ebony; but it suggested, not
                        decrepitude, but power — perhaps even a weapon that might be used
                        to enforce authority should occasion demand. In her face, in her eyes,
                        however, there was that which forbade the supposition of any revolt being
                        never so remotely possible.
                    As she advanced across the ballroom, dancing ceased before her and around
                        her, and but for the noise of the orchestra there would have been an awed
                        and painful silence. Mrs. Burke's haughty daughter-in-law, with an
                        expression of eager desire to conciliate and to please, hastened forward and
                        conducted the old lady to a gilt armchair in the center of the dais, across
                        the end of the ballroom. It was several minutes before the gayety was
                        resumed, and then it seemed to have lost the abandon which the
                        freely-flowing champagne had put into it.
                    
                        "Who is that frightful person?" repeated
                        Craig. He was scowling like a king angered and insulted by the advent of an
                        eclipsing rival.
                    "Grandma," replied Arkwright, his flippancy carefully keyed
                        low.
                    
                    "I've never seen a more dreadful person!"
                        exclaimed Craig angrily. "And a woman, too! She's the
                        exact reverse of everything a woman should be — no sweetness, no
                        gentleness. I can't believe she ever brought a child into the
                        world."
                    "She probably doubts it herself," said Arkwright.
                    "Why does everybody cringe before her?"
                    "That's what everybody asks. She hasn't any huge
                        wealth — or birth, either, for that matter. It's just the
                        custom. We defer to her here precisely as we wear claw-hammer coats and
                        low-neck dresses. Nobody thinks of changing the custom."
                    Josh's lip curled. "Introduce me to her," he said
                        commandingly.
                    Arkwright looked amused and alarmed. "Not tonight. All in good time.
                        She's the grandmother of a young woman I want you to meet.
                        She's Madam Bowker, and the girl's name is
                        Severence."
                    "I want to meet that old woman," persisted Josh. Never
                        before had he seen a human being who gave him a sense of doubt as to the
                        superiority of his own will.
                    "Don't be in too big a hurry for Waterloo," jested
                        Arkwright. "It's coming toward you fast enough. That old
                        lady will put you in your place. After ten 
                        minutes of her, you'll feel like a schoolboy who has `got
                        his' for sassing the teacher."
                    "I want to meet her," repeated Craig. And he watched her
                        every movement; watched the men and women bowing deferentially about her
                        chair; watched her truly royal dignity, as she was graciously pleased to
                        relax now and then.
                    "Every society has its mumbo-jumbo to keep it in order,"
                        said Arkwright. "She's ours. . . . I'm dead
                        tired. You've done enough for one night. It's a bad idea
                        to stay too long; it creates an impression of frivolity. Come
                        along!"
                    Craig went, reluctantly, with several halts and back-ward glances at the old
                        lady of the ebon staff.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER III
                    A DESPERATE YOUNG WOMAN
                    The house where the Severences lived, and had lived for half a century, was
                        built by Lucius Quintus Severence, Alabama planter, suddenly and, for the
                        antebellum days, notably rich through a cotton speculation. When he built,
                        Washington had no distinctly fashionable quarter; the neighborhood was then
                        as now small, cheap wooden structures where dwelt in genteel discomfort the
                        families of junior Department clerks. Lucius Quintus chose the site partly
                        for the view, partly because spacious grounds could be had at a nominal
                        figure, chiefly because part of his conception of aristocracy was to dwell
                        in grandeur among the humble. The Severence place, enclosed by a high
                        English-like wall of masonry, filled the whole huge square. On each of its
                        four sides it put in sheepish and chop-fallen countenance a row of boarding
                        houses. In any other city the neighborhood would have been intolerable
                        because of the noise of the rowdy children. But in Washington the boarding
                        house class cannot afford children; so, few indeed were the  small forms that paused before the big iron
                        Severence gates to gaze into the mysterious maze of green as far as might
                        be—which was not far, because the walk and the branching drives
                        turn abruptly soon after leaving the gates.
                    From earliest spring until almost Christmas that mass of green was sweet with
                        perfume and with the songs of appreciative colonies of bright birds. In the
                        midst of the grounds, and ingeniously shut in on all sides from any view
                        that could spoil the illusion of a forest, stood the house, Colonial,
                        creeper-clad, brightened in all its verandas and lawns by gay flowers, pink
                        and white predominating. The rooms were large and lofty of ceiling, and not
                        too uncomfortable in winter, as the family was accustomed to temperatures
                        below the average American indoors. In spring and summer and autumn the
                        rooms were delightful, with their old-fashioned solid furniture, their
                        subdued colors and tints, their elaborate arrangements for regulating the
                        inpour of light. All this suggested wealth. But the Severences were not
                        rich. They had about the same amount of money that old Lucius Quintus had
                        left; but, just as the neighborhood seemed to have degenerated when in fact
                        it had remained all but unchanged, so the Severence fortune seemed to have
                        declined, altogether through changes of standard elsewhere.  The Severences were no poorer; simply, other
                        people of their class had grown richer, enormously richer. The Severence
                        homestead, taken by itself and apart from its accidental setting of
                        luxurious grounds, was a third-rate American dwelling-house, fine for a
                        small town, but plain for a city. And the Severence fortune by contrast with
                        the fortunes so lavishly displayed in the fashionable quarter of the
                        capital, was a meager affair, just enough for comfort; it was far too small
                        for the new style of wholesale entertainment which the plutocracy has
                        introduced from England, where the lunacy for aimless and extravagant
                        display rages and ravages in its full horror of witless vulgarity. Thus, the
                        Severences from being leaders twenty years before, had shrunk into
                        "quiet people," were saved from downright obscurity and
                        social neglect only by the indomitable will and tireless energy of old
                        Cornelia Bowker.
                    Cornelia Bowker was not a Severence; in fact she was by birth indisputably a
                        nobody. Her maiden name was Lard, and the Lards were "poor white
                        trash." By one of those queer freaks wherewith nature loves to make
                        mockery of the struttings of men, she was endowed with ambition and with the
                        intelligence and will to make it effective. Her first ambition was
                        education;  by performing labors and sacrifices
                        incredible, she got herself a thorough education. Her next ambition was to
                        be rich; without the beauty that appeals to the senses, she married herself
                        to a rich New Englander, Henry Bowker. Her final and fiercest ambition was
                        social power. She married her daughter to the only son and namesake of
                        Lucius Quintus Severence. The pretensions of aristocracy would soon collapse
                        under the feeble hands of born aristocrats were it not for two
                        things—the passion of the masses of mankind for looking up, and the
                        frequent infusions into aristocratic veins of vigorous common blood.
                        Cornelia Bowker, born Lard, adored "birth." In fulfilling
                        her third ambition she had herself born again. From the moment of the
                        announcement of her daughter's engagement to Lucius Severence, she
                        ceased to be Lard or Bowker and became Severence, more of a Severence than
                        any of the veritable Severences. Soon after her son-in-law and his father
                        died, she became so much the Severence that fashionable
                        people forgot her origin, regarded her as the true embodiment of the pride
                        and rank of Severence—and Severence became, thanks wholly to her, a
                        synonym for pride and rank, though really the Severences were not especially
                        blue-blooded.
                    She did not live with her widowed daughter, as two  establishments were more impressive; also, she knew that she
                        was not a livable person—and thought none the worse of herself for
                        that characteristic of strong personalities. In the Severence family, at the
                        homestead, there were, besides five servants, but three persons—the
                        widowed Roxana and her two daughters, Margaret and Lucia—Lucia so
                        named by Madam Bowker because with her birth ended the Severence hopes of a
                        son to perpetuate in the direct line the family Christian name for its chief
                        heir. From the side entrance to the house extended an alley of trees, with
                        white flowering bushes from trunk to trunk like a hedge. At one end of the
                        alley was a pretty, arched veranda of the house, with steps descending; at
                        the other end, a graceful fountain in a circle, round which extended a stone
                        bench. Here Margaret was in the habit of walking every good day, and even in
                        rainy weather, immediately after lunch; and here, on the day after the Burke
                        dance, at the usual time, she was walking, as usual—up and down, up
                        and down, a slow even stride, her arms folded upon her chest, the muscles of
                        her mouth moving as she chewed a wooden tooth-pick toward a pulp. As she
                        walked, her eyes held steady like a soldier's, as if upon the small
                        of the back of an invisible walker in front of her. Lucia, stout,  rosy, lazy, sprawling upon the bench, her eyes
                        opening and closing drowsily, watched her sister like a sleepy, comfortable
                        cat. The sunbeams, filtering through the leafy arch, coquetted with
                        Margaret's raven hair, and alternately brightened and shadowed her
                        features. There was little of feminine softness in those unguarded features,
                        much of intense and apparently far from agreeable thought. It was one of her
                        bad days, mentally as well as physically—probably mentally because
                        physically. She had not slept more than two hours at most, and her eyes and
                        skin showed it.
                    "However do you stand it, Rita!" said Lucia, as Margaret
                        approached the fountain for the thirty-seventh time. "It's
                        so dull and tiring, to walk that way."
                    "I've got to keep my figure," replied Margaret,
                        dropping her hands to her slender hips, and lifting her shoulders in a
                        movement that drew down her corsets and showed the fine length of her
                        waist.
                    "That's nonsense," said Lucia. "All we
                        Severences get stout as we grow old. You can't hope to
                        escape."
                    "Grow old!" Margaret's brow lowered. Then she
                        smiled satirically. "Yes, I am growing old. I
                        don't  dare think how many seasons
                        out, and not married, or even engaged. If we were rich, I'd be a
                        young girl still. As it is, I'm getting on.'"
                    "Don't you worry about that, Rita," said Lucia.
                        "Don't you let them hurry you into anything desperate.
                        I'm sure I don't want to come out. I
                        hate society and I don't care about men. It's much
                        pleasanter lounging about the house and reading. No dressing—no
                        fussing with clothes and people you hate."
                    "It isn't fair to you, Lucy," said Margaret.
                        "I don't mind their nagging, but I do mind standing in
                        your way. And they'll keep you back as long as I'm still
                        on the market."
                    "But I want to be kept back." Lucia spoke almost
                        energetically, half lifting her form whose efflorescence had a certain charm
                        because it was the over-luxuriance of healthy youth. "I
                        shan't marry till I find the right man. I'm a fatalist. I
                        believe there's a man for me somewhere, and that he'll
                        find me, though I was hid—was hid—even here." And
                        she gazed romantically round at the enclosing walls of foliage.
                    The resolute lines, the "unfeminine" expression disappeared
                        from her sister's face. She laughed softly and tenderly.
                        "What a dear you are!" she cried.
                    "You can scoff all you please," retorted Lucia,  stoutly. "I believe it.
                        We'll see if I'm not right. . . . How lovely you did look
                        last night! . . . You wait for your `right man.' Don't let
                        them hurry you. The most dreadful things happen as the result of
                        girls' hurrying, and then meeting him when it's too
                        late."
                    "Not to women who have the right sort of pride." Margaret
                        drew herself up, and once more her far-away but decided resemblance to
                        Grandmother Bowker showed itself. "I'd never be weak
                        enough to fall in love unless I wished."
                    "That's not weakness; it's strength,"
                        declared Lucia, out of the fulness of experience gleaned from a hundred
                        novels or more.
                    Margaret shook her head uncompromisingly. "It'd be weakness
                        for me." She dropped upon the bench beside her sister.
                        "I'm going to marry, and I'm going to superintend
                        your future myself. I'm not going to let them kill all the fine
                        feeling in you, as they've killed it in me."
                    "Killed it!" said Lucia, reaching out for her
                        sister's hand. "You can't say it's dead,
                        so long as you cry like you did last night, when you came home from the
                        ball."
                    Margaret reddened angrily, snatched her hand away.  "Shame on you!" she cried. "I
                        thought you were above spying."
                    "The door was open between your bedroom and mine," pleaded
                        Lucia. "I couldn't help hearing."
                    "You ought to have called out—or closed it. In this family
                        I can't claim even my soul as my own!"
                    "Please, dear," begged Lucia, sitting up now and struggling
                        to put her arms round her sister, "you don't look on me as an outsider, do you? Why, I'm the only one
                        in all the world who knows you as you are—how sweet and gentle and
                        noble you are. All the rest think you're cold and cynical,
                        and—"
                    "So I am," said Margaret reflectively, "except
                        toward only you. I'm grandmother over again, with what
                        she'd call a rotten spot."
                    "That rotten spot's the real you," protested
                        Lucia.
                    Margaret broke away from her and resumed her walk. "You'll
                        see," said she, her face stern and bitter once more.
                    A maidservant descended the steps. "Madam Bowker has come,"
                        announced she, "and is asking for you, Miss Rita."
                    A look that could come only from a devil temper flashed into
                        Margaret's hazel eyes. "Tell her I'm
                        out."
                    "She saw you from the window."
                    
                    Margaret debated. Said Lucia, "When she comes so soon after lunch
                        she's always in a frightful mood. She comes then to make a row
                        because, without her after-lunch nap, she's hardly human and can be
                        more—more fiendish."
                    "I'll not see her," declared Margaret.
                    "Oh, yes, you will," said Lucia. "Grandmother
                        always has her way."
                    Margaret turned to the maid. "Tell her I had just gone to my room
                        with a raging headache."
                    The maid departed. Margaret made a detour, entered the house by the kitchen
                        door and went up to her room. She wrenched off blouse and skirt, got into a
                        dressing sacque and let down her thick black hair. The headache was now
                        real, so upsetting to digestion had been the advent of Madam Bowker,
                        obviously on mischief bent. "She transforms me into a raging
                        devil," thought Margaret, staring at her fiercely sullen
                        countenance in the mirror of the dressing table. "I wish
                        I'd gone in to see her. I'm in just the right
                        humor."
                    The door opened and Margaret whisked round to blast the intruder who had
                        dared adventure her privacy without knocking. There stood her
                        grandmother—ebon staff in gloved hand—erect, spare body in
                        rustling silk—gray-white hair massed before a sort of
                        turban—  steel-blue eyes flashing,
                        delicate nostrils dilating with the breath of battle.
                    "Ah—Margaret!" said she, and her sharp,
                        quarrel-seeking voice tortured the girl's nerves like the point of
                        a lancet. "They tell me you have a headache." She lifted
                        her lorgnon and scrutinized the pale, angry face of her granddaughter.
                        "I see they were telling me the truth. You are haggard and drawn
                        and distressingly yellow."
                    The old lady dropped her lorgnon, seated herself. She held her staff out at
                        an angle, as if she were Majesty enthroned to pass judgment of life and
                        death. "You took too much champagne at those vulgar Burkes last
                        night," she proceeded. "It's a vicious thing for
                        a girl to do—vicious in every way. It gives her a reputation for
                        moral laxity which an unmarried woman can ill-afford to have—unless
                        she has the wealth that makes men indifferent to character. . . . Why
                        don't you answer?"
                    Margaret shrugged her shoulders. "You know I detest champagne and
                        never drink it," said she. "And I don't purpose
                        to begin, even to oblige you."
                    "To oblige me!"
                    "To give you pretext for contention and nagging and
                        quarreling."
                    
                    
                        "'Ah—Margaret!' . . .
                            Her sharp, quarrel-seeking voice tortured the girl's
                            nerves."
                    
                    
                    Madam Bowker was now in the element she had been seeking—the stormy
                        sea of domestic wrangling. She struck out boldly, with angry joy.
                        "I've long since learned not to expect gratitude from you.
                        I can't understand my own weakness, my folly, in continuing to
                        labor with you."
                    "That's very simple," said Margaret.
                        "I'm the one human being you can't compel by hook
                        or crook to bow to your will. You regard me as unfinished
                        business."
                    Madam Bowker smiled grimly at this shrewd analysis. "I want to see
                        you married and properly settled in life. I want to end this disgrace. I
                        want to save you from becoming ridiculous and contemptible—object
                        of laughter and of pity."
                    "You want to see me married to some man I dislike and should soon
                        hate."
                    "I want to see you married," retorted the old lady.
                    "I can't be held responsible for your electing to hate
                        whatever is good for you. And I came to tell you that my patience is about
                        exhausted. If you are not engaged by the end of this season, I wash my hands
                        of you. I have been spending a great deal of money in the effort to
                        establish you. You are a miserable failure socially. You attach only
                        worthless men. You drive away the serious men."
                    
                    "Stupid, you mean."
                    "I mean serious—the men looking for wives. Men who have
                        something and have a right to aspire to the hand of my
                        grandchild. The only men who have a right to take the time of an unmarried
                        woman. You either cannot, or will not, exert yourself to please. You avoid
                        young girls and young men. You waste your life with people already settled.
                        You have taken on the full airs and speech of a married woman, in advance of
                        having a husband—and that is folly bordering on insanity. You have
                        discarded everything that men—marrying men—the right sort
                        of men—demand in maidenhood. I repeat, you are a miserable
                        failure."
                    "A miserable failure," echoed Margaret, staring dismally
                        into the glass.
                    "And I repeat," continued the old lady, somewhat less
                        harshly, though not less resolutely, "this season ends it. You must
                        marry or I'll stop your allowance. You'll have to look to
                        your mother for your dresses and hats and gee-gaws. When I think of the
                        thousands of dollars I've wasted on you—It's
                        cheating—it's cheating! You have been stealing from
                        me!" Madam Bowker's tone was almost unladylike; her ebon
                        staff was flourishing threateningly.
                    Margaret started up. "I warned you at the outset!"  she cried. "I took nothing from you
                        that you didn't force on me. And now, when you've made
                        dress, and all that, a necessity for me, you are going to snatch it
                        away!"
                    "Giving you money for dress is wasting it," cried the old
                        lady. "What is dress for? Pray why, do you imagine, have I provided
                        you with three and four dozen expensive dresses a year and hats and lingerie and everything in proportion? Just to gratify
                        your vanity? No, indeed! To enable you to get a husband, one able to provide
                        for you as befits your station. And because I have been generous with you,
                        because I have spared no expense in keeping you up to your station, in
                        giving you opportunity, you turn on me and revile me!"
                    "You have been generous, Grandmother,"
                        said Margaret, humbly. There had risen up before her a hundred extravagances
                        in which the old lady had indulged her—things quite unnecessary for
                        show, the intimate luxuries that contribute only indirectly to show by
                        aiding in giving the feeling and air of refinement. It was of these luxuries
                        that Margaret was especially fond; and her grandmother, with an instinct
                        that those tastes of Margaret's proved her indeed a
                        lady—and made it impossible that she should marry, or even think of
                        marrying, "foolishly"—had been most graciously
                        generous  in gratifying them. Now, these
                        luxuries were to be withdrawn, these pampered tastes were to be starved.
                        Margaret collapsed despairingly upon her table. "I wish to marry,
                        Heaven knows! Only—only—" She raised herself; her
                        lip quivered— "Good God, Grandmother, I can't give myself to a man who repels me! You make me
                        hate men—marriage—everything of that kind. Sometimes I
                        long to hide in a convent!"
                    "You can indulge that longing after the end of this
                        season," said her grandmother. "You'll certainly
                        hardly dare show yourself in Washington, where you have become noted for
                        your dress. . . . That's what exasperates me against you! No girl
                        appreciates refinement and luxury more than you do. No woman has better
                        taste, could use a large income to better advantage. And you have
                        intelligence. You know you must have a competent husband. Yet you fritter
                        away your opportunities. A very short time, and you'll be a worn,
                        faded old maid, and the settled people who profess to be so fond of you will
                        be laughing at you, and deriding you, and pitying you."
                    Deriding! Pitying!
                    "I've no patience with the women of that clique
                        you're so fond of," the old lady went on. "If the
                        ideas they profess—the shallow frauds that they are!—were
                        to  prevail, what would become of women of our
                        station? Women should hold themselves dear, should encourage men in that
                        old-time reverence for the sex and its right to be sheltered and worshiped
                        and showered with luxury. As for you—a poor
                        girl—countenancing such low and ruinous views—Is it
                        strange I am disgusted with you? Have you no pride—no
                        self-respect?"
                    Margaret sat motionless, gazing into vacancy. She could not but endorse every
                        word her grandmother was saying. She had heard practically those same words
                        often, but they had had no effect; now, toward the end of this her least
                        successful season, with most of her acquaintances married off, and enjoying
                        and flaunting the luxury she might have had—for, they had married
                        men of "the right sort"—" capable
                        husbands"—men who had been more or less attentive to
                        her—now, these grim and terrible axioms of worldly wisdom, of upper
                        class honor, from her grandmother sounded in her ears like the boom of surf
                        on reefs in the ears of the sailor.
                    A long miserable silence; then, her grandmother: "What do you
                        purpose to do, Margaret?"
                    "To hustle," said the girl with a short, bitter laugh.
                        "I must rope in somebody. Oh, I've been realizing, these
                        past two months. I'm awake at last."
                    Madam Bowker studied the girl's face, gave a sigh  of relief. "I feel greatly
                        eased," said she. "I see you are coming to your senses
                        before it's too late. I knew you would. You have inherited too much
                        of my nature, of my brain and my character."
                    Margaret faced the old woman in sudden anger. "If you had made
                        allowances for that, if you had reasoned with me quietly, instead of nagging
                        and bullying and trying to compel, all this might have been settled long
                        ago." She shrugged her shoulders. "But that's
                        past and done. I'm going to do my best. Only—I warn you,
                        don't try to drive me! I'll not be driven!"
                    "What do you think of Grant Arkwright?" asked her
                        grandmother.
                    "I intend to marry him," replied Margaret.
                    The old lady's stern eyes gleamed delight.
                    "But," Margaret hastened to add, "you
                        mustn't interfere. He doesn't like you. He's
                        afraid of you. If you give the slightest sign, he'll sheer off. You
                        must let me handle him."
                    "The insolent puppy," muttered Madam Bowker.
                        "I've always detested him."
                    "You don't want me to marry him?"
                    "On the contrary," the old lady replied. "He would
                        make the best possible husband for you." She smiled  like a grand inquisitor at prospect of a
                        pleasant day with rack and screw. "He needs a firm hand,"
                        said she.
                    Margaret burst out laughing at this implied compliment to herself; then she
                        colored as with shame and turned away. "What frauds we women
                        are!" she exclaimed. "If I had any sense of decency left,
                        I'd be ashamed to do it!"
                    "There you go again!" cried her grandmother. "You
                        can't be practical five minutes in succession. Why should a woman
                        be ashamed to do a man a service in spite of himself? Men are fools where
                        women are concerned. I never knew one that was not. And the more sensible
                        they are in other respects, the bigger fools they are about us! Left to themselves, they always make a mess of marriage. They
                        think they know what they want, but they don't. We have to teach
                        them. A man needs a firm hand during courtship, and a firmer hand after
                        marriage. So many wives forget their duty and relax. If you don't
                        take hold of that young Arkwright, he'll no doubt fall a victim to
                        some unscrupulous hussy."
                    Unscrupulous hussy! Margaret looked at herself in the mirror, met her own
                        eyes with a cynical laugh. "Well, I'm no worse than the
                        others," she added, half  to herself.
                        Presently she said, "Grant is coming this afternoon. I look a
                        fright. I must take a headache powder and get some sleep."
                    Her grandmother rose instantly. "Yes, you do look badly —
                        for you. And Arkwright has very keen eyes — thanks to those silly
                        women of your set who teach men things they have no business to
                        know." She advanced and kissed her granddaughter graciously on top
                        of the head. "I am glad to see my confidence in you was not
                        misplaced, Margaret," said she. "I could not believe I was
                        so utterly mistaken in judgment of character. I'll go to your
                        mother and take her for a drive."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IV.
                    "HE ISN'T LIKE US"
                    Margaret continued to sit there, her elbows on the dressing-table, her
                        knuckles pressing into her cheeks, the hazel eyes gazing at their reflection
                        in the mirror. "What is it in me," she said to her image,
                        "that makes me less successful at drawing men to the point than so
                        many girls who are no better looking than I?" And she made an
                        inventory of her charms that was creditably free from vanity. "And
                        men certainly like to talk to me," she pursued. "The fish
                        bite, but the hook doesn't hold. Perhaps — probably
                        — I'm not sentimental enough. I don't simper and
                        pretend innocence and talk tommy rot — and listen to it as if I
                        were eating honey."
                    This explanation was not altogether satisfactory, however. She felt that, if
                        she had a certain physical something, which she must lack, nothing else
                        would matter — nothing she said or did. It was baffling; for,
                        there, before her eyes were precisely the charms of feature and figure that
                        in other women, in far less degree, had set men, many men, quite beside
                        themselves. Her  lip curled, and her eyes
                        laughed satirically as she thought of the follies of those men —
                        how they had let women lead them up and down in public places, drooling and
                        sighing and seeming to enjoy their own pitiful plight. If that expression of
                        satire had not disappeared so quickly, she might have got at the secret of
                        her "miserable failure." For, it was her habit of facing
                        men with only lightly veiled amusement, or often frank ridicule, in her
                        eyes, in the curve of her lips, that frightened them off, that gave them the
                        uneasy sense that their assumptions of superiority to the female were being
                        judged and derided.
                    But time was flying. It was after three; the headache was still pounding in
                        her temples, and her eyes did look almost as haggard and her skin almost as
                        sallow as her grandmother had said. She took an anti-pyrene powder from a
                        box in her dressing-table, threw off all her clothes, swathed herself in a
                        long robe of pale-blue silk. She locked the door into the hall, and went
                        into her bedroom, closed the door between. She put the powder in water,
                        drank it, dropped down upon a lounge at the foot of her bed and covered
                        herself. The satin pillow against her cheek, the coolness and softness of
                        the silk all along and around her body, were deliciously soothing. Her blood
                        beat less fiercely, and somber thoughts drew slowly  away into a vague cloud at the horizon of her mind. Lying
                        there, with senses soothed by luxury and deadened to pain by the drug, she
                        felt so safe, so shut-in against all intrusion. In a few hours the struggle,
                        the bitterness would begin again; but at least here was this interval of
                        repose, of freedom. Only when she was thus alone did she ever get that most
                        voluptuous of all sensations — freedom. Freedom and luxury!
                        "I'm afraid I can't eat my cake and have it,
                        too," she mused drowsily. "Well — whether or not
                        I can have freedom, at least I must have luxury.
                        I'm afraid Grant can't give me nearly all I want
                        — who could? . . . If I had the courage — Craig could make
                        more than Grant has, if he were put to it. I'm sure he could.
                        I'm sure he could do almost anything — but be attractive
                        to a woman. No, Craig is too strong a dose — besides,
                        there's the risk. Grant is safest. Better a small loaf than
                        — than no Paris dresses."
                    Arkwright, entering Mrs. Severence's drawing-room with Craig at
                        half-past five, found a dozen people there. Most of them were of that young
                        married set which Margaret preferred, to the anger and disgust of her
                        grandmother and against the entreaties of her own common sense.
                        "The last place in the world to look for  a husband," Madam Bowker had said again and again, to
                        both her daughter and her granddaughter. "Their talk is all in
                        ridicule of marriage, and of every sacred thing. And if there are any
                        bachelors, they have come — well, certainly not in search of
                        honorable wedlock."
                    The room was noisily gay; but Margaret, at the tea-table in a rather somber
                        brown dress with a big brown hat, whose great plumes shadowed her pale,
                        somewhat haggard face, was evidently not in one of her sparkling moods. The
                        headache powder and the nap had not been successful. She greeted Arkwright
                        with a slight, absent smile, seemed hardly to note Craig, as Arkwright
                        presented him.
                    "Sit down here beside Miss Severence," Grant said.
                    "Yes, do," acquiesced Margaret; and Joshua thought her cold
                        and haughty, an aristocrat of the unapproachable type, never natural and
                        never permitting others to be natural.
                    "And tell her all about yourself," continued Grant.
                        "My friend Josh, here," he explained to Margaret,
                        "is one of those serious, absorbed men who concentrate entirely
                        upon themselves. It isn't egotism; it's
                        genius."
                    Craig was ruffled and showed it. He did not like persiflage; it seemed an
                        assault upon dignity, and in those early days in Washington he was full of
                        dignity  and of determination to create a
                        dignified impression. He reared haughtily and looked about with arrogant,
                        disdainful eyes.
                    "Will you have tea?" said Miss Severence, as Arkwright,
                        moved away.
                    "No, thanks," replied Craig. "Tea's for
                        the women and the children."
                    Miss Severence's expression made him still more uncomfortable.
                        "Well," said she, "if you should feel dry as you
                        tell me about yourself, there's whiskey over on that other table. A
                        cigarette? No? I'm afraid I can't ask you to have a cigar
                        —"
                    "And take off my coat, and put my feet up, and be at home!"
                        said Craig. "I see you think I'm a boor."
                    "Don't you want people to think you a boor?"
                        inquired she with ironic seriousness.
                    He looked at her sharply. "You're laughing at me,"
                        he said, calmly. "Now, wouldn't it be more ladylike for
                        you to try to put me at my ease? I'm in your house, you
                        know."
                    Miss Severence flushed. "I beg your pardon," she said.
                        "I did not mean to off end."
                    "No," replied Craig. "You simply meant to muse
                        yourself with me. And because I don't know what to do with my hands
                        and because my coat fits badly, you  thought I
                        wouldn't realize what you were doing. You are very narrow
                        — you fashionable people. You don't even know that
                        everybody ought to be judged on his own ground. To size up a race-horse, you
                        don't take him into a drawing room. And it wouldn't be
                        quite fair, would it, for me to judge these drawing-room dolls by what they
                        could do out among real men and women? You — for instance. How
                        would you show up, if you had to face life with no husband and no money and
                        five small children, as my mother did? Well, she won
                        out."
                    Miss Severence was not attracted; but she was interested. She saw beyond the
                        ill-fitting frock-coat, and the absurd manner, thoroughly ill at ease,
                        trying to assume easy, nonchalant man-of-the-world airs.
                        "I'd never have thought of judging you except on your own
                        ground," said she, "if you hadn't invited the
                        comparison."
                    "You mean, by getting myself up in these clothes and coming
                        here?"
                    "Yes."
                    "You're right, young lady," said Craig, clapping
                        her on the arm, and waving an energetic forefinger almost in her face.
                        "And as soon as I can decently get away, I'll go. I told
                        Arkwright I had no business to come here."
                    
                    Miss Severence colored, drew her arm away, froze. She detested all forms of
                        familiarity; physical familiarity she abhorred. "You have known
                        Grant Arkwright long?" she said, icily.
                    
                        "Now, what have I done?" demanded
                        Joshua.
                    She eyed him with a lady's insolent tranquillity.
                        "Nothing," replied she. "We are all so glad Grant
                        has come back."
                    Craig bit his lip and his tawny, weather-beaten skin reddened. He stared with
                        angry envy at Arkwright, so evidently at ease and at home in the midst of a
                        group on the other side of the room. In company, practically all human
                        beings are acutely self-conscious. But self-consciousness is of two kinds.
                        Arkwright, assured that his manners were correct and engaging, that his
                        dress was all it should be, or could be, that his position was secure and
                        admired, had the self-consciousness of self-complacence. Joshua's
                        consciousness of himself was the extreme of the other kind — like a
                        rat's in a trap.
                    "You met Mr. Arkwright out West — out where you
                        live?"
                    "Yes," said Craig curtly, almost surlily.
                    "I was out there once," pursued the young woman, feeling
                        that in her own house she must do her best 
                        with the unfortunate young man. "And, curiously enough, I heard you
                        speak. We all admired you very much."
                    Craig cheered up instantly; he was on his own ground now. "How long
                        ago?" he asked.
                    "Three years; two years last September."
                    "Oh, I was a mere boy then. You ought to hear me now."
                    And Joshua launched forth into a description of his oratory, then related how
                        he had won over juries in several important cases. His arms, his hands were
                        going, his eyes were glistening, his voice had that rich, sympathetic tone
                        which characterizes the egotist when the subject is himself. Miss Severence
                        listened without comment; indeed, he was not sure that she was listening, so
                        conventional was her expression. But, though she was careful to keep her
                        face a blank, her mind was busy. Surely not since the gay women of
                        Barras's court laughed at the megalomaniac ravings of a noisy,
                        badly dressed, dirty young lieutenant named Buonaparte, had there been a
                        vanity so candid, so voluble, so obstreperous. Nor did he talk of himself in
                        a detached way, as if he were relating the performances and predicting the
                        glory of a human being who happened to have the same name as himself. No, he
                        thrust upon  her in every sentence that he, he
                        himself and none other, had said and done all these splendid startling
                        things, would do more, and more splendid. She listened, astounded; she
                        wondered why she did not burst out laughing in his very face, why, on the
                        contrary, she seemed to accept to a surprising extent his own estimate of
                        himself.
                    "He's a fool," thought she," one of the
                        most tedious fools I ever met. But I was right; he's evidently very
                        much of a somebody. However does he get time to do
                        anything, when he's so busy admiring himself? How does he ever
                        contrive to take his mind off himself long enough to think of anything
                        else?"
                    Nearly an hour later Arkwright came for him, cut him off in the middle of an
                        enthusiastic description of how he had enchained and enthralled a vast
                        audience in the biggest hall in St. Paul. "We must go, this
                        instant," said Arkwright. "I had no idea it was so
                        late."
                    "I'll see you soon again, no doubt, Mr. Craig,"
                        said Miss Severence, polite but not cordial, as she extended her hand.
                    "Yes," replied Craig, holding the hand, and rudely not
                        looking at her but at Arkwright. "You've interrupted us in
                        a very interesting talk, Grant."
                    
                    Grant and Margaret exchanged smiles, Margaret disengaged her hand, and the
                        two men went. As they were strolling down the drive, Grant said:
                        "Well, what did you think of her?"
                    "A nobody — a nothing," was Craig's
                        wholly unexpected response. "Homely — at least
                        insignificant. Bad color. Dull eyes. Bad manners. A poor specimen, even of
                        this poor fashionable society of yours. An empty-head."
                    "Well — well — well!"
                        exclaimed Arkwright in derision. "Yet you and she seemed to be
                        getting on beautifully together."
                    "I did all the talking."
                    "You always do."
                    "But it was the way she listened. I felt as if I were rehearsing in
                        a vacant room."
                    "Humph," grunted Arkwright.
                    He changed the subject. The situation was one that required thought, plan.
                        "She's just the girl for Josh," said he to
                        himself. "And he must take her. Of course, he's not the
                        man for her. She couldn't care for him, not in a thousand years.
                        What woman with a sense of humor could? But she's got to marry
                        somebody that can give her what she must have. . . . It's very
                        important whom a man marries, but it's not  at all important whom a woman marries. The world
                        wasn't made for them, but for us!"
                    
                    At Vanderman's that night he took Mrs. Tate in to dinner, but
                        Margaret was on his left. "When does your Craig make his speech
                        before the Supreme Court?" asked she.
                    He inspected her with some surprise. "Tuesday, I think.
                        Why?"
                    "I promised him I'd go."
                    "And will you?"
                    "Certainly. Why not?"
                    This would never do. Josh would get the impression she was running after him,
                        and would be more contemptuous than ever. "I shouldn't, if
                        I were you."
                    "Why not?"
                    "Well, he's very vain, as you perhaps discovered. He might
                        misunderstand."
                    "And why should that disturb me?" asked she, tranquilly.
                        "I do as I please. I don't concern myself about what
                        others think. Your friend interests me. I've a curiosity to see
                        whether he has improved in the last two or three years as much as he says he
                        has."
                    "He told you all about himself?"
                    "Everything — and nothing."
                    
                    "That's just it!" exclaimed Arkwright,
                        misunderstanding her. "After he has talked me into a state of
                        collapse, every word about himself and his career, I think it all over, and
                        wonder whether there's anything to the man or not. Sometimes I
                        think there's a real person beneath that flow of vanity. Then,
                        again, I think not."
                    "Whether he's an accident or a plan," mused the
                        young woman; but she saw that Arkwright did not appreciate the cleverness
                        and the penetration of her remark. Indeed, she knew in advance that he would
                        not, for she knew his limitations. "Now," thought she,
                        "Craig would have appreciated it — and clapped me on the
                        arm — or knee."
                    "Did you like Josh?" Grant was inquiring.
                    "Very much, indeed."
                    "Of course," said Arkwright satirically.
                    "He has ability to do things. He has strength. . . . He
                        isn't like us."
                    Arkwright winced. "I'm afraid you exaggerate him, merely
                        because he's different."
                    "He makes me feel an added contempt for myself, somehow.
                        Doesn't he you?"
                    "I can't say he does," replied Arkwright,
                        irritated. "I appreciate his good qualities, but I can't
                        help being  offended and disturbed for him by
                        his crudities. He has an idea that to be polite and well-dressed is to be
                        weak and worthless. And I can't get it out of his
                        head."
                    Margaret's smile irritated him still further. "All great
                        men are more or less rude and crude, aren't they?" said
                        she. "They are impatient of the trifles we lay so much stress
                        on."
                    "So, you think Josh is a great man?"
                    "I don't know," replied Margaret, with
                        exasperating deliberateness. "I want to find out."
                    "And if you decide that he is, you'll marry
                        him?"
                    "Perhaps. You suggested it the other day."
                    "In jest," said Arkwright, unaccountably angry with her,
                        with himself, with Joshua. "As soon as I saw him in your presence,
                        I knew it wouldn't do. It'd be giving a piece of rare,
                        delicate porcelain to a grizzly as a plaything."
                    He was surprised at himself. Now that he was face to face with a possibility
                        of her adopting his own proposition, he disliked it intensely. He looked at
                        her; never had she seemed so alluring, so representative of what he called
                        distinction. At the very idea of such refinement at the mercy of the coarse
                        and boisterous Craig, his blood boiled. "Josh is a fine, splendid
                             chap, as a man among men," said
                        he to himself. "But to marry this dainty aristocrat to him
                        — it'd be a damned disgraceful outrage. He's not
                        fit to marry among our women. . . . What a pity such a
                        stunning girl shouldn't have the accessories to make her
                        eligible." And he hastily turned his longing eyes away, lest she
                        should see and attach too much importance to a mere longing — for,
                        he felt it would be a pitiful weakness, a betrayal of opportunity, for him
                        to marry, in a mood of passion that passes, a woman who was merely well
                        born, when he had the right to demand both birth and wealth in his wife.
                    "I've often thought," pursued Margaret,
                        "that to be loved by a man of the Craig sort would be —
                        interesting."
                    "While being loved by one of your own sort would be dull?"
                        suggested Arkwright with a strained smile.
                    Margaret shrugged her bare white shoulders in an inflammatory assent.
                        "Will you go with me to the Supreme Court on Tuesday?"
                    "Delighted," said Arkwright. And he did not realize that
                        the deep-hidden source of his enthusiasm was a belief that Josh Craig would
                        make an ass of himself.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER V
                    ALMOST HOOKED
                    In human affairs, great and small, there are always many reasons for every
                        action; then, snugly tucked away underneath all these reasons that might be
                        and ought to be and pretend to be but aren't, hides the real
                        reason, the real moving cause of action. By tacit agreement among human
                        beings there is an unwritten law against the exposing of this real reason,
                        whose naked and ugly face would put in sorry countenance professions of
                        patriotism or philanthropy or altruism or virtue of whatever kind.
                        Stillwater, the Attorney-General and Craig's chief, had a dozen
                        reasons for letting him appear alone for the Administration — that
                        is, for the people — in that important case. Each of these reasons
                        — except one — shed a pure, white light upon
                        Stillwater's public spirit and private generosity. That one was the
                        reason supposed by Mrs. Stillwater to be real. "Since you
                        don't seem able to get rid of Josh Craig, Pa," said she,
                        in the seclusion of the marital couch, "we might as well marry him
                        to Jessie"— Jessie being their homeliest daughter.
                    
                    "Very well," said "Pa" Stillwater.
                        "I'll give him a chance."
                    Still, we have not got the real reason for Josh's getting what
                        Stillwater had publicly called "the opportunity of a
                        lifetime." The really real reason was that Stillwater wished, and
                        calculated, to kill a whole flock of birds with one stone.
                    Whenever the people begin to clamor for justice upon their exploiters, the
                        politicians, who make themselves valuable to the exploiters by cozening the
                        people into giving them office, begin by denying that the people want
                        anything; when the clamor grows so loud that this pretense is no longer
                        tenable, they hasten to say, "The people are right, and something
                        must be done. Unfortunately, there is no way of legally doing anything at
                        present, and we must be patient until a way is discovered." Way
                        after way is suggested, only to be dismissed as
                        "dangerous" or "impractical" or
                        "unconstitutional." The years pass; the clamor persists,
                        becomes imperious. The politicians pass a law that has been carefully made
                        unconstitutional. This gives the exploiters several years more of license.
                        Finally, public sentiment compels the right kind of law; it is passed. Then
                        come the obstacles to enforcement. More years of delay; louder clamor. A
                        Stillwater is  put in charge of the enforcement
                        of the law; a case is made, a trial is had, and the evidence is so
                        incomplete or the people's lawyers so poorly matched against the
                        lawyers of the exploiters that the case fails, and the administration is
                        able to say, "You see, we've done our
                        best, but the rascals have escaped!" The case against certain
                        Western railway thieves had reached the stage at which the only way the
                        exploiters could be protected from justice was by having a mock trial; and
                        Still-water had put Craig forward as the conductor of this furious sham
                        battle, had armed him with a poor gun, loaded with blanks.
                        "We'll lose the case," calculated Stillwater;
                        "we'll save our friends, and get rid of Craig, whom
                        everybody will blame — the damned, bumptious, sophomoric
                        blow-hard!"
                    What excuse did Stillwater make to himself for himself in this course of
                        seeming treachery and assassination? For, being a man of the highest
                        principles, he would not deliberately plan an assassination as an
                        assassination. Why, his excuse was that the popular clamor against the men
                        "who had built up the Western country" was wicked, that he
                        was serving his country in denying the mob "the blood of our best
                        citizens," that Josh Craig was a demagogue who richly deserved to
                        be hoist by his own petar. He laughed with patriotic  glee as he thought how "Josh, the joke" would
                        make a fool of himself with silly, sophomoric arguments, would with his rude
                        tactlessness get upon the nerves of the finicky old Justices of the Supreme
                        Court!
                    As Craig had boasted right and left of the "tear" he was
                        going to make, and had urged everybody he talked with to come and hear him,
                        the small courtroom was uncomfortably full, and not a few of the smiling,
                        whispering spectators confidently expected that they were about to enjoy
                        that rare, delicious treat — a conceited braggart publicly exposed
                        and overwhelmed by himself. Among these spectators was Josh's best
                        friend, Arkwright, seated beside Margaret Severence, and masking his
                        satisfaction over the impending catastrophe with an expression of funereal
                        somberness. He could not quite conceal from himself all these hopes that had
                        such an uncomfortable aspect of ungenerousness. So he reasoned with himself
                        that they really sprang from a sincere desire for his friend's
                        ultimate good. "Josh needs to have his comb cut," thought
                        he. "It's sure to be done, and he can bear it better now
                        than later. The lesson will teach him a few things he most learn. I only
                        hope he'll be able to profit by it."
                    When Josh appeared, Grant and the others with firmly-fixed opinions of the
                        character of the impending  entertainment were
                        not a little disquieted. Joshua Craig, who stepped into the arena, looked
                        absolutely different from the Josh they knew. How had he divested himself of
                        that familiar swaggering, bustling braggadocio? Where had he got this look
                        of the strong man about to run a race, this handsome face on which sat real
                        dignity and real power? Never was there a better court manner; the Justices,
                        who had been anticipating an opportunity to demonstrate, at his expense, the
                        exceeding dignity of the Supreme Court, could only admire and approve. As
                        for his speech, it was a straightway argument; not a superfluous or a
                        sophomoric word, not an attempt at rhetoric. His argument — There
                        is the logic that is potent but answerable; there is the logic that is
                        unanswerable, that gives no opportunity to any sane mind, however prejudiced
                        by association with dispensers of luxurious hospitality, of vintage wines
                        and dollar cigars, however enamored of fog-fighting and hair-splitting, to
                        refuse the unqualified assent of conviction absolute. That was the kind of
                        argument Josh Craig made. And the faces of the opposing lawyers, the
                        questions the Justices asked him plainly showed that he had won.
                    After the first ten minutes, when the idea that Craig could be or ever had
                        been laughable became itself absurd,  Arkwright
                        glanced uneasily, jealously at Margaret. The face beneath the brim of her
                        beautiful white and pale pink hat was cold, conventional, was the face of a
                        mere listener. Grant, reassured, resumed his absorbed attention, was soon
                        completely swept away by his friend's exhibition of power, could
                        hardly wait until he and Margaret were out of the courtroom before exploding
                        in enthusiasm. "Isn't he a wonder?" he cried.
                        "Why, I shouldn't have believed it possible for a man of
                        his age to make such a speech. He's a great lawyer as well as a
                        great orator. It was a dull subject, yet I was fascinated. Weren't
                        you?"
                    "It was interesting — at times," said
                        Margaret.
                    "At times! Oh, you women!"
                    At this scorn Margaret eyed his elegant attire, his face with its expression
                        of an intelligence concentrated upon the petty and the paltry. Her eyes
                        suggested a secret amusement so genuine that she could not venture to reveal
                        it in a gibe. She merely said: "I confess I was more interested in
                        him than in what he said."
                    "Of course! Of course!" said Grant, all unconscious of her
                        derision." "Women have no interest in serious things and
                        no mind for logic."
                    She decided that it not only was prudent but also was more enjoyable to keep
                        to herself her amusement  at his airs of
                        masculine superiority. Said she, her manner ingenuous: "It
                        doesn't strike me as astonishing that a man should make a sensible
                        speech."
                    Grant laughed as if she had said something much cleverer than she could
                        possibly realize. "That's a fact," admitted he.
                        "It was simply supreme commonsense. What a world for twaddle it is
                        when commonsense makes us sit up and stare. . . . But it's none the
                        less true that you're prejudiced against him."
                    "Why do you say that?"
                    "If you appreciated him you'd be as enthusiastic as
                        I." There was in his tone a faint hint of his unconscious
                        satisfaction in her failure to appreciate Craig.
                    "You can go very far astray," said she, "you, with
                        your masculine logic."
                    But Grant had guessed aright. Margaret had not listened attentively to the
                        speech because it interested her less than the man himself. She had
                        concentrated wholly upon him. Thus, alone of all the audience, she had seen
                        that Craig was playing a carefully-rehearsed part, and, himself quite
                        unmoved, was watching and profiting by every hint in the countenance of his
                        audience, the old Justices. It was an admirable piece of acting; it was the
                        performance of a genius at the mummer's art. But the power of the
                        mummer lies in the  illusion he creates; if he
                        does not create illusion, as Craig did not for Margaret, he becomes mere
                        pantomimist and mouther. She had never given a moment's thought to
                        public life as a career; she made no allowances for the fact that a
                        man's public appearances, no matter how sincere he is, must always
                        be carefully rehearsed if he is to use his powers with unerring effect; she
                        was simply like a child for the first time at the theater, and, chancing to
                        get a glimpse behind the scenes, disgusted and angry with the players
                        because their performance is not spontaneous. If she had stopped to reason
                        about the matter she would have been less uncompromising. But in the shock
                        of disillusionment she felt only that the man was working upon his audience
                        like a sleight-of-hand performer; and the longer she observed, and the
                        stronger his spell over the others, the deeper became her contempt for the
                        "charlatan." He seemed to her like one telling a lie
                        — as that one seems, while telling it, to the hearer who is not
                        deceived. "I've been thinking him rough but
                        genuine," said she to herself. "He's merely
                        rough." She had forgiven, had disregarded his rude almost coarse
                        manners, setting them down to indifference, the impatience of the large with
                        the little, a revolt from the (on the whole preferable) extreme opposite of
                        the mincing,  patterned manners of which
                        Margaret herself was aweary. "But he isn't indifferent at
                        all," she now felt. "He's simply posing. His
                        rudenesses are deliberate where they are not sheer ignorance. His manner in
                        court showed that he knows how, in the main."
                    A rather superior specimen of the professional politician, but distinctly of
                        that hypocritical, slippery class. And Margaret's conviction was
                        strengthened later in the day when she came upon him at tea at Mrs.
                        Houghton's. He was holding forth noisily against
                        "society," was denouncing it as a debaucher of manhood and
                        womanhood, a waster of precious time, and on and on in that trite and
                        tedious strain. Margaret's lip curled as she listened. What did
                        this fakir know about manhood and womanhood? And could there be any more
                        pitiful, more paltry wasting of time than in studying out and performing
                        such insincerities as his life was made up of? True, Mrs. Houghton, of those
                        funny, fashionable New Yorkers who act as if they had only just arrived at
                        the estate of servants and carriages, and are always trying to impress even
                        passing strangers with their money and their grandeur — true, Mrs.
                        Houghton was most provocative to anger or amused disdain at the fashionable
                        life. But not even Mrs. Houghton seemed to Margaret so cheap and pitiful as
                             this badly-dressed, mussy politician, as
                        much an actor as Mrs. Houghton and as poor at the trade, but choosing low
                        comedy for his unworthy attempts where Mrs. Houghton was at least trying to
                        be something refined.
                    With that instinct for hostility which is part of the equipment of every
                        sensitively-nerved man of action, Craig soon turned toward her, addressed
                        himself to her; and the others, glad to be free, fell away. Margaret was
                        looking her best. White was extremely becoming to her; pink — pale
                        pink — being next in order. Her dress was of white, with facings of
                        delicate pale pink, and the white plumes in her hat were based in pale pink,
                        which also lined the inside of the brim. She watched him, and, now that it
                        was once more his personality pitted directly and wholly against hers, she,
                        in spite of herself, began to yield to him again her respect — the
                        respect every intelligent person must feel for an individuality that is
                        erect and strong. But as she was watching, her expression was that of simply
                        listening, without comment or intention to reply — an expression of
                        which she was perfect mistress. Her hazel eyes, set in dark lashes, her
                        sensuous mouth, her pallid skin, smooth and healthy, seemed the climax of
                        allurement to which all the lines of her delightful figure pointed. To
                        another woman  it would have been obvious that
                        she was amusing herself by trying to draw him under the spell of physical
                        attraction; a man would have thought her a mere passive listener, perhaps
                        one concealing boredom, would have thought her movements to bring now this
                        charm and now that to his attention were simply movements of restlessness,
                        indications of an impatience difficult to control. He broke off abruptly.
                        "What are you thinking?" he demanded.
                    She gave no sign of triumph at having accomplished her purpose — at
                        having forced his thoughts to leave his pet subject, himself, and center
                        upon her. "I was thinking," said she reflectively,
                        "what a brave whistler you are."
                    "Whistler?"
                    "Whistling to keep up your courage. No, rather, whistling for courage. You are on your knees before wealth and
                        social position, and you wish to convince yourself — and the world
                        — that you despise the."
                    
                        "I? Wealth? Social position?" Craig
                        exclaimed, or rather, blustered. And, red and confused, he was at a loss for
                        words.
                    "Yes — you," asserted she, in her quiet, tranquil
                        way. "Don't bluster at me. You didn't bluster at
                             the Court this morning." She
                        laughed softly, eyeing him with friendly sarcasm. "You see,
                        I'm `on to' you, Mr. Craig."
                    Their eyes met — a resolute encounter. He frowned fiercely, and as
                        his eyes were keen and blue-green, and, backed by a tremendous will, the
                        odds seemed in his favor. But soon his frown relaxed; a smile replaced it
                        — a handsome acknowledgment of defeat, a humorous confession that
                        she was indeed "on to" him. "I like
                        you," he said graciously.
                    "I don't know that I can say the same of you,"
                        replied she, no answering smile in her eyes or upon her lips, but a
                        seriousness far more flattering.
                    "That's right!" exclaimed he. "Frankness
                        — absolute frankness. You are the only intelligent woman I have met
                        here who seems to have any sweetness left in her."
                    "Sweetness? This is a strange place to look for sweetness. One might
                        as well expect to find it in a crowd of boys scrapping for pennies, or in a
                        pack of hounds chasing a fox."
                    "But that isn't all of life," protested Craig.
                    "It's all of life among our sort of people — the
                        ambitious socially and otherwise."
                    Josh beamed upon her admiringly. "You'll do,"  approved he. "We shall be friends. We
                            are friends."
                    The gently satiric smile her face had borne as she was talking became
                        personal to him. "You are confident," said she.
                    He nodded emphatically. "I am. I always get what I
                        want."
                    "I'm sorry to say I don't. But I can say that at
                        least I never take what I don't want."
                    "That means," said he, "you may not want my
                        friendship."
                    "Obviously," replied she. And she rose and put out her
                        hand.
                    "Don't go yet," cried he. "We are just
                        beginning to get acquainted. The other day I misjudged you. I thought you
                        insignificant, not worth while."
                    She slid her hand into her ermine muff. She gave him an icy look, not
                        contemptuous but oblivious, and turned away. He stared after her.
                        "By Jove!" thought he, "there's the real thing. There's a true
                        aristocrat." And he frankly paid aristocracy in thought the tribute
                        he would with any amount of fuming and spluttering have denied it in word.
                        "Aristocracy does mean something," reflected he.
                        "There must be substance to what can make me feel
                        quite put down."
                    
                    When he saw Arkwright he said patronizingly: "I like that little
                        friend of yours — that Miss What's-her-name."
                    Grant suspected from his tone that this forgetfulness was an affectation.
                        "You know very well what her name is," said he irritably.
                        "What a cheap affectation."
                    Josh countered and returned magnificently: "I remember her face
                        perfectly," said he. "One shares one's name with
                        a great many people, so it's unimportant. But one's face
                        is one's own. I remember her face very well indeed — and
                        that gorgeous figure of hers."
                    Grant was furious, thought Craig's words the limit of impertinent
                        free-spokenness. "Well, what of it?" said he savagely.
                    "I like her," replied Josh condescendingly. "But
                        she's been badly brought up, and is full of foolish ideas, like all
                        your women here. But she's a thoroughbred."
                    "Then you like her?" observed Arkwright without
                        enthusiasm.
                    "So-so. Of course, she isn't fit to be a wife, but for her
                        type and as a type she's splendid."
                    Arkwright felt like kicking him and showed it. "What a bounder you
                        are at times, Josh," he snapped.
                    
                    Craig laughed and slapped him on the back. "There you go again, with
                        your absurd notions of delicacy. Believe me, Grant, you don't
                        understand women. They don't like you delicate fellows. They like a
                        man — like me — a pawer of the ground — a snorter
                        — a war—horse that cries ha-ha among the
                        trumpets."
                    "The worst thing about what you say," replied Arkwright
                        sourly, "is that it's the truth. I don't say the
                        women aren't worthy of us, but I do say they're not worthy
                        of our opinion of them. . . . Well, I suppose you're going to try
                        to marry her"— this with a vicious gleam which he felt
                        safe in indulging openly before one so self-absorbed and so insensible to
                        subtleties of feeling and manner.
                    "I think not," said Craig judicially.
                        "She'd play hell with my polities. It's bad
                        enough to have fights on every hand and all the time abroad. It'd
                        be intolerable to have one at home — and I've got no time
                        to train her to my uses and purposes."
                    Usually Craig's placid conviction that the universe existed for his
                        special benefit and that anything therein was his for the mere formality of
                        claiming it moved Arkwright to tolerant amusement at his lack of the sense
                        of proportion and humor. Occasionally it moved him to reluctant admiration
                        — this when some apparently  absurd
                        claim of his proved more or less valid. Just now, in the matter of Margaret
                        Severence, this universal overlordship filled him with rage, the more
                        furious that he realized he could no more shake Josh's conviction
                        than he could make the Washington monument topple over into the Potomac by
                        saying, "Be thou removed." He might explain all the
                        obvious reasons why Margaret would never deign to condescend to him; Josh
                        would dismiss them with a laugh at Arkwright's folly.
                    He hid his rage as best he could, and said with some semblance of genial
                        sarcasm: "So all you've got to do is to ask her and
                        she's yours?"
                    Craig gave him a long, sharp, searching look. "Old man," be
                        said earnestly, "do you want her?"
                    "I!" exclaimed Arkwright angrily, but with shifting eyes
                        and with upper lip twitching guiltily. Then, satirically: "Ob, no;
                        I'd not dare aspire to any woman you had condescended to smile
                        upon."
                    "If you do I'll get her for you," pursued Craig,
                        his hand seeking Arkwright's arm to grip it.
                    Arkwright drew away, laughed outright. "You are a joke!" he
                        cried, wholly cured of his temper by the preposterous offer. It would be
                        absurd enough for any one to imagine he would need help in courting any  woman he might fancy — he, one of the
                        most eligible of American bachelors. It passed the uttermost bounds of the
                        absurd, this notion that he would need help with a comparatively poor girl,
                        many seasons out and eager to marry. And then, climax of climaxes, that Josh
                        Craig could help him! "Yes, a joke," he repeated.
                    "Oh, no doubt I do seem so to you," replied Josh unruffled.
                        "People are either awed or amused by what they're
                        incapable of understanding. At this stage of my career I'm not
                        surprised to find they're amused. But wait, my boy. Meanwhile, if
                        you want that lady, all you've got to do is to say the word.
                        I'll get her for you."
                    "Thanks; no," said Arkwright. "I'm rather
                        shy of matrimony. I don't hanker after the stupid joys of family
                        life, as you do."
                    "That's because of your ruinous, rotten training,"
                        Craig assured him. "It has destroyed your power to appreciate the
                        great fundamentals of life. You think you're superior. If you only
                        knew how shallow you are!"
                    I've a competent valet," said Arkwright. "And your
                        idea of a wife seems to be a sort of sublimated valet — and
                        nurse."
                    "I can conceive of no greater dignity than to take  care of a real man and his children,"
                        replied Craig. "However, the dignity of the service depends upon
                        the dignity of the person to whom it is rendered — and upon the
                        dignity of the person who renders it."
                    Arkwright examined Craig's face for signs that this was the biting
                        sarcasm it would have seemed, coming from another. But Craig was apparently
                        merely making one of his familiar bumptious speeches. The idea of a man of
                        his humble origin proclaiming himself superior to an Arkwright of the
                        Massachusetts Arkwrights!
                    "No, I'd not marry your Miss Severence," Craig
                        continued. "I want a wife, not a social ornament. I want a woman,
                        not a toilette. I want a home, not a fashionable hotel. I want love and
                        sympathy and children. I want substance, not shadow; sanity, not
                        silliness."
                    "And your socks darned and your shirts mended."
                    "That, of course." Josh accepted these amendments with
                        serene seriousness. "And Miss Severence isn't fit for the
                        job. She has some brains — the woman kind of brains. She has a
                        great deal of rudimentary character. If I had the time, and it were worth
                        while, I could develop her into a real woman. But I haven't, and it
                        wouldn't be worth while when there are so many  real women, ready made, out where I come from. This girl would
                        be exactly the wife for you, though. Just as she is, she'd help you
                        mince about from parlor to parlor, and smirk and jabber and waste time.
                        She's been educating for the job ever since she was born."
                        He laid his hand in gracious, kindly fashion on his friend's
                        shoulder. "Think it over. And if you want my help it's
                        yours. I can show her what a fine fellow you are, what a good husband
                        you'd make. For you are a fine person, old man; when you were born
                        fashionable and rich it spoiled a —"
                    "A superb pram-trundler," suggested Arkwright.
                    "Precisely. Be off now; I must work. Be off, and exhibit that
                        wonderful suit and those spotless white spats where they'll be
                        appreciated." And he dismissed the elegantly-dressed idler as a
                        king might rid himself of a favorite who threatened to presume upon his
                        master's good humor and outstay his welcome. But Arkwright,
                        didn't greatly mind. He was used to Josh's airs. Also,
                        though he would not have confessed it to his inmost self, Josh's
                        preposterous assumptions, by sheer force of frequent and energetic
                        reiteration, had made upon him an impression of possible validity —
                        not probable, but possible; and the possible was quite enough to stir deep
                        down in Arkwright's soul the all  but
                        universal deference before power. It never occurred to him to suspect there
                        might be design in Craig's sweeping assertions and assumptions of
                        superiority, that he might be shrewdly calculating that, underneath the
                        ridicule those obstreperous vanities would create, there would gradually
                        form and steadily grow a conviction of solid truth, a conviction that Joshua
                        Craig was indeed the personage he professed to be — mighty,
                        inevitably prevailing, Napoleonic.
                    This latent feeling of Arkwright's was, however, not strong enough
                        to suppress his irritation when, a few days later, he went to the Severences
                        for tea, and found Margaret and Josh alone in the garden, walking up and
                        down, engaged in a conversation that was obviously intimate and absorbing.
                        When he appeared on the veranda Joshua greeted him with an eloquent smile of
                        loving friendship.
                    Ah, there you are now!" he cried. "Well, little ones,
                        I'll leave you together. I've wasted as much time as I can
                        spare to-day to frivolity."
                    "Yes, hurry back to work," said Arkwright. "The
                        ship of state's wobbling badly through your neglect."
                    Craig laughed, looking at Margaret. "Grant thinks that's a
                        jest," said he. "Instead, it's the sober truth.
                             I am engaged in keeping my Chief in order,
                        and in preventing the President from skulking from the policies he has the
                        shrewdness to advocate but lacks the nerve to put into action."
                    Margaret stood looking after him as he strode away.
                    "You mustn't mind his insane vanity," said
                        Arkwright, vaguely uneasy at the expression of her hazel eyes, at once so
                        dark, mysterious, melancholy, so light and frank and amused.
                    "I don't," said she in a tone that seemed to mean
                        a great deal.
                    He, still more uneasy, went on: "A little more experience of the
                        world and Josh'll come round all right — get a sense of
                        proportion."
                    "But isn't it true?" asked Margaret somewhat
                        absently.
                    What?"
                    "Why, what he said as he was leaving. Before you came he'd
                        been here quite a while, and most of the time he talked of himself
                        —"
                    Arkwright laughed, but Margaret only smiled, and that rather reluctantly.
                    "And he was telling how hard a time he was having; what with
                        Stillwater's corruption and the President's  timidity about really acting against rich
                        people — something about criminal suits against what he calls the
                        big thieves — I didn't understand it, or care much about
                        it, but it gave me an impression of Mr. Craig's
                        power."
                    "There is some truth in what he says,"
                        Arkwright admitted, with a reluctance of which his pride, and his heart as
                        well, were ashamed. "He's become a burr, a thorn, in the
                        Administration, and they're really afraid of him in a way
                        — though, of course, they have to laugh at him as every one else
                        does."
                    "Of course," said Margaret absently.
                    Arkwright watched her nervously. "You seem to be getting round to
                        the state of mind," said he, "where you'll be in
                        danger of marrying our friend Craig."
                    Margaret, her eyes carefully away from him, laughed softly — a
                        disturbingly noncommittal laugh.
                    "Of course, I'm only joking," continued Arkwright.
                        "I know you couldn't marry him."
                    "Why not?"
                    "Because you don't think he's since."
                    Her silence made him feel that she thought this as weak as he did.
                    "Because you don't love him."
                    "No, I certainly don't love him," said
                        Margaret.
                    
                    "Because you don't even like him."
                    "What a strange way of advocating your friend you
                        have."
                    Arkwright flushed scarlet. "I thought you'd quite dismissed
                        him as a possibility," he stammered.
                    "With a woman every man's a possibility so long as no
                        man's a certainty."
                    "Margaret, you couldn't marry a man you didn't
                        like?"
                    She seemed to reflect. "Not if I were in love with another at the
                        time," she said finally. "That's as far as my
                        womanly delicacy — what's left of it after my years in
                        society — can influence me. And it's stronger, I believe,
                        than the delicacy of most women of our sort."
                    They were sitting now on the bench round the circle where the fountain was
                        tossing high its jets in play with the sunshine. She was looking very much
                        the woman of the fashionable world, and the soft grays, shading into blues,
                        that dominated her costume gave her an exceeding and entrancing seeming of
                        fragility. Arkwright thought her eyes wonderful; the sweet, powerful yet
                        delicate odor of the lilac sachet powder with which her every garment was
                        saturated set upon his senses like a love-philter.
                    
                    "Yes, you are finer and nobler than most women," he said
                        giddily. "And that's why it distresses me to hear you talk
                        even in jest, as if you could marry Josh."
                    "And a few weeks ago you were suggesting him as just the husband for
                        me."
                    Arkwright was silent. How could he go on? How tell her why he had changed
                        without committing himself to her by a proposal? She was fascinating
                        — would be an ideal wife. With what style and taste she'd
                        entertain — how she'd shine at the head of his table! What
                        a satisfaction it would be to feel that his money was being so competently
                        spent. But — well, he did not wish to marry, not just yet; perhaps,
                        somewhere in the world, he would find, in the next few years, a woman even
                        better suited to him than Margaret. Marrying was a serious business. True,
                        now that divorce had pushed its way up and had become recognized by
                        fashionable society, had become an established social favorite, marriage had
                        been robbed of one of its terrors. But the other remained — divorce
                        still meant alimony. The woman who trapped an eligible never endangered her
                        hard-earned position; a man must be extremely careful or he would find
                        himself forced to hard choice between keeping on with a woman he wished to
                        be rid of and paying out a large part of his income  in alimony. It seemed far-fetched to think of these things in
                        connection with such a woman as Margaret. He certainly never could grow
                        tired of her, and her looks were of the sort that had staying power. Nor was
                        she in the least likely to be so ungrateful as to wish to be rid of him and
                        hold him up for alimony. Still — wouldn't it have been
                        seemingly just as absurd to consider in advance such sordid matters in
                        connection with any one of a dozen couples among his friends whose
                        matrimonial enterprises had gone smash? It was said that nowadays girls went
                        to the altar thinking that if the husbands they were taking proved
                        unsatisfactory they would soon be free again, the better off by the title of
                        Mrs. and a good stiff alimony and some invaluable experience. "I
                        must keep my head," thought he. "I must consider how
                        I'd feel after the fatal cards were out"
                    "Yes, you were quite eager for me to marry him," persisted
                        she. She was watching his face out of the corner of her eye.
                    "I admit it," said he huskily. "But we've
                        both changed since then."
                    "Changed?" said she, perhaps a shade too encouragingly.
                    He felt the hook tickling his gills and darted off  warily. "Changed toward him, I mean. Changed in our
                        estimate of his availability as a husband for you." He rose; the
                        situation was becoming highly perilous. "I must speak to your
                        mother and fly. I'm late for an appointment now."
                    As he drove away ten minutes later he drew a long breath.
                        "Gad!" said he half aloud, "Rita'll
                        never realize how close I was to proposing to-day. She almost had me. . . . Though why I should think of it that way I
                        don't know. It's damned low and indelicate of me. She
                        ought to be my wife. I love her as much as a man of experience can love a
                        woman in advance of trying her out thoroughly. If she had money I'd
                        not be hesitating, I'm afraid. Then, too, I don't think
                        the moral tone of that set she and I travel with is what it ought to be.
                        It's all very well for me, but — Well, a man ought to be
                        ready for almost anything that might happen if his wife went with that crowd
                        — or had gone with it before he married her. Not that I suspect
                        Margaret, though I must say — What a pup this sort of life does
                        make of a man in some ways! . . . Yes, I almost leaped. Shell never know how
                        near I came to it. . . . Perhaps Josh's more than half-right and
                        I'm oversophisticated. My doubts and delays may cost me a kind of
                        happiness I'd rather have  than
                        anything on earth — if it really
                        exists." There he laughed comfortably. "Poor Rita! If she
                        only knew, how cut up she'd be!"
                    He might not have been so absolutely certain of her ignorance could he have
                        looked into the Severences' drawing-room just then. For Margaret,
                        after a burst of hysterical gayety, had gone to the far end of the room on
                        the pretext of arranging some flowers. And there, with her face securely hid
                        from the half-dozen round the distant tea-table, she was choking back the
                        sobs, was muttering: "I'll have to do it! I'm a
                        desperate woman — desperate!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VI
                    MR. CRAIG IN SWEET DANGER
                    It is a rash enterprise to open wide to the world the private doors of the
                        family, to expose intimate interiors all unconscious of outside observation,
                        and all unprepared for it. Such frankness tends to destroy
                        "sympathetic interest," to make delusion and illusion
                        impossible; it gives cynicism and his brother, pharisaism, their opportunity
                        to simper and to sneer. Still rasher is it to fling wide the doors of a
                        human heart, and, without any clever arrangement of lights and shades,
                        reveal in the full face of the sun exactly what goes on there. We lie to
                        others unconsciously; we lie to ourselves both consciously and
                        unconsciously. We admit and entertain dark thoughts, and at the first alarm
                        of exposure deny that we ever saw them before; we cover up our motives,
                        forget where we have hidden them, and wax justly indignant when they are dug
                        out and confronted with us. We are scandalized, quite honestly, when others
                        are caught doing what we ourselves have done. We are  horrified and cry "Monster!" when others do
                        what we ourselves refrain from doing only through lack of the bad
                        courage.
                    No man is a hero who is not a hero to his valet; and no woman a lady unless
                        her maid thinks so. Margaret Severence's new maid Selina was
                        engaged to be married; the lover had gone on a spree, had started a free
                        fight in the streets, and had got himself into jail for a fortnight. It was
                        the first week of his imprisonment, and Selina had committed a series of
                        faults intolerable in a maid. She sent Margaret to a ball with a long tear
                        in her skirt; she let her go out, open in the back, both in blouse and in
                        placket; she upset a cup of hot café au lait on her arm;
                        finally she tore a strap off a shoe as she was fastening it on
                        Margaret's foot. Though no one has been able to fathom it, there
                        must be a reason for the perversity whereby our outbursts of anger against
                        any seriously-offending fellow-being always break on some trivial offense,
                        never on one of the real and deep causes of wrath. Margaret, though ignorant
                        of her maid's secret grief and shame, had borne patiently the sins
                        of omission and commission, only a few of which are catalogued above; this,
                        though the maid, absorbed in her woe, had not even apologized for a single
                        one of them. On the seventh day of discomforts  and disasters Margaret lost her temper at the triviality of the ripping
                        off of the shoe-strap, and poured out upon Selina not only all her
                        resentment against her but also all that she had been storing up since the
                        beginning of the season against life and destiny. Selina sat on the floor
                        stupefied; Margaret, a very incarnation of fury, raged up and down the room,
                        venting every and any insult a naturally caustic wit suggested.
                        "And," she wound up, "I want you to clear out at
                        once. I'll send you your month's wages. I can't
                        give you a character — except for honesty. I'll admit, you
                        are too stupid to steal. Clear out, and never let me see you
                        again."
                    She swept from the room, drove away to lunch at Mrs. Baker's. She
                        acted much as usual, seemed to be enjoying herself, for the luncheon was
                        very good indeed, Mrs. Baker's chef being new
                        from France and not yet grown careless, and the company was amusing. At the
                        third course she rose. "I've forgotten
                        something," said she. "I must go at once. No, no one must
                        be disturbed on my account. I'll drive straight home." And
                        she was gone before Mrs. Baker could rise from her chair.
                    At home Margaret went up to her own room, through her bedroom to
                        Selina's — almost as large and quite as  comfortable as her own and hardly plainer.
                        She knocked. As there was no answer, she opened the door. On the bed,
                        sobbing heart-brokenly, lay Selina, crushed by the hideous injustice of
                        being condemned capitally merely for tearing off a bit of leather which the
                        shoemaker had neglected to make secure.
                    "Selina," said Margaret.
                    The maid turned her big, homely, swollen face on the pillow, ceased sobbing,
                        gasped in astonishment.
                    "I've come to beg your pardon," said Margaret, not
                        as superior to inferior, nor yet with the much-vaunted "just as if
                        they were equals," but simply as one human being to another. The
                        maid sat up. One of her braids had come undone and was hanging ludicrously
                        down across her cheek.
                    "I insulted you, and I'm horribly ashamed."
                        Wistfully: "Will you forgive me?"
                    "Ob, law!" cried the maid despairingly,
                        "I'm dreaming." And she threw herself down once
                        more and sobbed afresh.
                    Margaret knelt beside the bed, put her hand appealingly on the
                        girl's shoulder. "Can you forgive me, Selina?"
                        said she. "There's no excuse for me except that
                        I've had so much hard luck, and everything seems to be going to
                        pieces under me."
                    
                    Selina stopped sobbing. "I told a story when I came to you and said
                        I'd had three years' experience," moaned she, not
                        to be outdone in honorable generosity. "It was only three months as
                        lady's maid, and not much of a lady, neither."
                    "I don't in the least care," Margaret assured her.
                        "I'm not strictly truthful myself at times, and I do all
                        sorts of horrid things."
                    "But that's natural in a lady," objected Selina,
                        "where there ain't no excuse for me that have only my
                        character."
                    Margaret was careful not to let Selina see her smile in appreciation of this
                        unconsciously profound observation upon life and morals. "Never
                        mind," said she; "you're going to be a good maid
                        soon. You're learning quickly."
                    "No, no," wailed Selina. "I'm a regular
                        blockhead, and my hands is too coarse."
                    "But you have a good heart and I like you," said Margaret.
                        "And I want you to forgive me and like me. I'm so lonely
                        and unhappy. And I need the love of one so close to me all the time as you
                        are. It'd be a real help."
                    Selina began to cry again, and then Margaret gave way to tears; and,
                        presently, out came the dreadful  story of the
                        lover's fight and jailing; and Margaret, of course, promised to see
                        that he was released at once. When she went to her own room, the maid
                        following to help her efface the very disfiguring evidence of their humble,
                        emotional drama, Margaret had recovered her self-esteem and had won a
                        friend, who, if too stupid to be very useful, was also too stupid to be
                        unfaithful.
                    As it was on the same day, and scarcely one brief hour later, it must have
                        been the very same Margaret who paced the alley of trimmed elms, her eyes so
                        stern and somber, her mouth and chin so hard that her worshipful sister
                        Lucia watched in silent, fascinated dread. At length Margaret noted Lucia,
                        halted and: "Why don't you read your book?" she
                        cried fiercely. "Why do you sit staring at me?"
                    "What a temper you have got — what a nasty temper!" Lucia was goaded into retorting.
                    "Haven't I, though!" exclaimed Margaret, as if she
                        gloried in it. "Stop that staring!"
                    "I could see you were thinking something — something
                        — terrible!" explained Lucia.
                    Margaret's face cleared before a satirical smile. "What a
                        romancer you are, Lucia." Then, with a laugh:
                        "I'm taking myself ridiculously seriously today. Temper
                        — giving way to temper — is a sure  sign of defective intelligence or of defective
                        digestion."
                    "Is it about — about Mr. Craig?"
                    Margaret reddened, dropped to the bench near her sister — evidence
                        that she was willing to talk, to confide — so far as she ever
                        confided her inmost self — to the one person she could trust.
                    "Has he asked you to marry him?"
                    "No; not yet."
                    "But he's going to?"
                    Margaret gave a queer smile. "He doesn't think
                        so."
                    "He wouldn't dare!" exclaimed Lucia.
                        "Why, he's not in the same class with you."
                    "So! The little romancer is not so romantic that she forgets her
                        snobbishness."
                    "I mean, he's so rude and noisy. I detest
                        him!"
                    "So do I — at times."
                    Lucia looked greatly relieved. "I thought you were encouraging him.
                        It seemed sort of — of — cheap, unworthy of you, to care
                        to flirt with a man like that."
                    Margaret's expression became strange indeed. "I am not
                        flirting with him," she said gravely. "I'm going
                        to marry him."
                    Lucia was too amazed to speak, was so profoundly shocked that her usually
                        rosy cheeks grew almost pale.
                    
                    "Yes, I shall marry him," repeated Margaret slowly.
                    "But you don't love him!" cried Lucia.
                    "I dislike him," replied Margaret. After a pause she added:
                        "When a woman makes up her mind to marry a man, willy-nilly, she
                        begins to hate him. It's a case of hunter and hunted. Perhaps,
                        after she's got him, she may change. But not till the trap springs
                        — not till the game's bagged."
                    Lucia shuddered. "Oh, Rita!" she cried. And she turned away
                        to bury her face in her arms.
                    "I suppose I oughtn't to tell you these things,"
                        pursued Margaret; "I ought to leave you your illusions as long as
                        possible. But — why shouldn't you know the truth? Perhaps,
                        if we all faced the truth about things, instead of sheltering ourselves in
                        lies, the world would begin to improve."
                    "But I don't see why you chose him," persisted Lucia.
                    "I didn't. Fate did the choosing."
                    "But why not somebody like — like Grant Arkwright? Rita,
                        I'm sure he's fond of you."
                    "So am I," said Rita. "But he's got the
                        idea he would be doing me a favor in marrying me; and when a man gets that
                        notion it's fatal. Also — He doesn't realize it
                        himself, but I'm not prim enough to suit him.  He imagines he's liberal — that's a
                        common failing among men. But a woman who is natural shocks them, and they
                        are taken in and pleased by one who poses as more innocent and impossible
                        than any human being not perfectly imbecile could remain in a world that
                        conceals nothing. . . . I despise Grant — I like him, but despise
                        him."
                    "He is small," admitted Lucia.
                    "Small? He's infinitesimal. He'd be mean with his
                        wife about money. He'd run the house himself. He should have been a
                        butler."
                    "But, at least, he's a gentleman."
                    "Oh, yes," said Margaret. "Yes, I suppose so. I
                        despise him, while, in a way, I respect Craig."
                    "He has such a tough-looking skin," said Lucia.
                    "I don't mind that in a man," replied
                        Margaret.
                    "His hands are like — like a coachman's,"
                        said Lucia. "Whenever I look at them I think of
                        Thomas."
                    "No, they're more like the parrot's —
                        they're claws. . . . That's why I'm marrying
                        him."
                    "Because he has ugly hands?"
                    "Because they're ugly in just that way. They're
                        the hands of the man who gets things and holds on to things. I'm
                        taking him because he can get for me what I need." Margaret patted
                        her sister on the shoulder.  "Cheer
                        up, Lucia! I'm lucky, I tell you. I'm getting, merely at
                        the price of a little lying and a little shuddering, what most people
                        can't get at any price."
                    "But he hasn't any money," objected Lucia.
                    "If he had, no doubt you'd find him quite tolerable. Even
                        you — a young innocent."
                    "It does make a difference," admitted Lucia. "You
                        see, people have to have money or they can't live like gentlemen
                        and ladies."
                    "That's it," laughed Margaret.
                        "What's a little thing like self-respect beside ease and
                        comfort and luxury? As grandmother said, a lady who'd put anything
                        before luxury has lost her self-respect."
                    "Everybody that's nice ought to have money,"
                        declared Lucia. "Then the world would be beautiful, full of love
                        and romance, with everybody clean and well-dressed and never in a
                        hurry."
                    But Margaret seemed not to hear. She was gazing at the fountain, her unseeing
                        eyes gloomily reflecting her thoughts.
                    "If Mr. Craig hasn't got money why marry him?"
                        asked her sister.
                    "He can get it," replied Margaret tersely.
                        "He's the man to trample and crowd and clutch, and make
                        everybody so uncomfortable that they'll gladly give him  what he's snatching for."
                        She laughed mockingly. "Yes, I shall get what I
                        want"—then soberly —"if I can get
                        him."
                    "Get him! Why, he'll be delighted! And he
                        ought to be."
                    "No, he oughtn't to be; but he will be."
                    "A man like him — marrying a lady! And marrying you!" Lucia threw her arms round her
                        sister's neck and dissolved in tears. "Oh, Rita,
                        Rita!" she sobbed. "You are the dearest, loveliest girl on
                        earth. I'm sure you're not doing it for yourself, at all.
                        I'm sure you're doing it for my sake."
                    "You're quite wrong," said Rita, who was sitting
                        unmoved and was looking like her grandmother. "I'm doing
                        it for myself. I'm fond, of luxury — of fine dresses and
                        servants and all that. . . . Think of the thousands, millions of women who
                        marry just for a home and a bare living! . . . No doubt, there's
                        something wrong about the whole thing, but I don't see just what.
                        If woman is made to lead a sheltered life, to be supported by a man, to be a
                        man's plaything, why, she can't often get the man
                        she'd most like to be the plaything of, can she?"
                    "Isn't there any such thing as love?" Lucia
                        ventured wistfully. "Marrying for love, I mean."
                    
                    "Not among our sort of people, except by
                        accident," Margaret assured her. "The money's the
                        main thing. We don't say so. We try not to think so. We denounce as
                        low and coarse anybody that does say so. But it's the truth, just
                        the same. . . . Those who marry for money regret it, but not so much as
                        those who marry only for love — when poverty begins to pinch and to
                        drag everything fine and beautiful down into the mud. Besides, I
                        don't love anybody — thank God! If I did, Lucia,
                        I'm afraid I'd not have the courage!"
                    "I'm sure you couldn't!" cried Lucia,
                        eager to save all possible illusion about her sister. Then, remorseful for
                        disloyal thoughts: "And, if it wasn't right, I'm
                        sure you'd not do it. You may fall in love with
                        him afterward."
                    "Yes," assented Margaret, kissing Lucia on an impulse of
                        gratitude. "Yes, I may. I probably shall. Surely, I'm not
                        to go through life never doing anything I ought to do."
                    "He's really handsome, in that bold, common way. And you
                        can teach him."
                    Margaret laughed with genuine mirth. "How surprised he'd
                        be," she exclaimed, "if he could know what's
                        going on in my head!"
                    
                    "He'll be on his knees to you," pursued Lucia,
                        wonderfully cheered up by her confidence in the miracles Margaret's
                        teaching would work. "And he'll do whatever you
                        say."
                    "Yes, I'll teach him," said Margaret, herself more
                        hopeful; for must always improves with acquaintance. "I'll
                        make him over completely. Oh, he's not so bad as they think
                        — not by any means."
                    Lucia made an exaggerated gesture of shivering.
                    "He gets on my nerves," said she. "He's
                        so horribly abrupt and ill-mannered."
                    "Yes, I'll train him," said Margaret, musing
                        aloud. "He doesn't especially fret my nerves. A woman gets
                        a good, strong nervous system — and a good, strong stomach
                        — after she has been out a few years." She laughed.
                        "And he thinks I'm as fine and delicate as — as
                        —"
                    "As you look," suggested Lucia.
                    "As I look," accepted Margaret. "How we do deceive
                        men by our looks! Really, Lucia, he's far more
                        sensitive than I — far more."
                    "That's too silly!"
                    "If I were a millionth part as coarse as he is he'd fly
                        from me. Yet I'm not flying from him."
                    
                    This was unanswerable. Lucia rejoined: "When are you going to
                        — to do it?"
                    "Right away. . . . I want to get it over with. . . . I
                        can't stand the suspense. . . . I can't stand
                        it!" And Lucia was awed and silenced by the sudden, strained look
                        of anguish almost that made Margaret's face haggard and her eyes
                        wild.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VII
                    MRS. SEVERENCE IS ROUSED
                    Craig swooped upon the Severences the next afternoon. His arrivals were
                        always swoopings — a swift descent on a day when he was not
                        expected; or, if the day was forearranged, then the hour would be a
                        surprise. It was a habit with him, a habit deliberately formed. He liked to
                        take people unawares, to create a flurry, reasoning that he, quick of eye
                        and determined of purpose, could not but profit by any confusion. He was
                        always in a hurry — that is, he seemed to be. In this also there
                        was deliberation. It does not follow because a man is in a hurry that he is
                        an important and busy person; no more does it follow that a man is an
                        inconsequential procrastinator if he is leisurely and dilatory. The
                        significance of action lies in intent. Some men can best gain their ends by
                        creating an impression that they are extremely lazy, others by creating the
                        impression that they are exceedingly energetic. The important point is to be
                        on the spot at the moment most  favorable for
                        gaining the desired advantage; and it will be found that of the men who get
                        what they want in this world, both those who seem to hasten and those who
                        seem to lounge are always at the right place at the right time.
                    It best fitted Craig, by nature impatient, noisily aggressive, to adopt the
                        policy of rush. He arrived before time usually, fumed until he had got
                        everybody into that nervous state in which men, and women, too, will yield
                        more than they ever would in the kindly, melting mood. Though he might stay
                        hours, he, each moment, gave the impression that everybody must speak
                        quickly or he would be gone, might quickly be rid of him by speaking
                        quickly. Obviously, intercourse with him was socially unsatisfactory; but
                        this did not trouble him, as his theory of life was, get what you want,
                        never mind the way or the feelings of others. And as he got by giving,
                        attached his friends by self-interest, made people do for him what it was
                        just as well that they should do, the net result, after the confusion and
                        irritation had calmed, was that everybody felt, on the whole, well content
                        with having been compelled. It was said of him that he made even his enemies
                        work for him; and this was undoubtedly true — in the sense in which
                        it was meant as well as in the deeper sense that a man's  enemies, if he be strong, are his most
                        assiduous allies and advocates. It was also true that he did a great deal
                        for people. Where most men do favors only when the prospect of return is
                        immediate, he busied himself as energetically if returns seemed remote, even
                        improbable, as he did when his right hand was taking in with interest as his
                        left hand gave. It was his nature to be generous, to like to give; it was
                        also his nature to see that a reputation for real generosity and kindness of
                        heart was an invaluable asset, and that the only way to win such a
                        reputation was by deserving it.
                    Craig arrived at the Severences at half-past four, when no one was expected
                        until five. "Margaret is dressing," explained Mrs.
                        Severence, as she entered the drawing-room. "She'll be
                        down presently — if you care to wait." This, partly
                        because she hoped he would go, chiefly because he seemed in such a
                        hurry.
                    "I'll wait a few minutes," said Craig in his
                        sharp, irritating voice.
                    And he began to tour the room, glancing at pictures, at articles on the
                        tables, mussing the lighter pieces of furniture about. Mrs. Severence,
                        pink-and-white. middle-aged, fattish and obviously futile, watched him with
                        increasing nervousness. He would surely break something; or, being by a
                        window when the impulse to  depart seized him,
                        would leap through, taking sash, curtains and all with him.
                    "Perhaps we'd better go outdoors," suggested she.
                        She felt very helpless, as usual. It was from her that Lucia inherited her
                        laziness and her taste for that most indolent of all the dissipations, the
                        reading of love stories.
                    "Outdoors?" exploded Craig, wheeling on her, as if he had
                        previously been unconscious of her presence. "No. We'll
                        sit here. I want to talk to you."
                    And he plumped himself into a chair near by, his claw-like hands upon his
                        knees, his keen eyes and beaklike nose bent toward her. Mrs. Severence
                        visibly shrank. She felt as if that handsome, predatory face were pressed
                        against the very window of her inmost soul.
                    "You wish to talk to me," she echoed, with a feeble
                        conciliatory smile.
                    "About your daughter," said Craig, still more curt and
                        aggressive. "Mrs. Severence, your daughter ought to get
                        married."
                    Roxana Severence was so amazed that her mouth dropped open.
                        "Married?" she echoed, as if her ears had deceived
                        her.
                    The colossal impudence of it! This young man, 
                        this extremely common young man, daring to talk to her about such a private
                        matter! And she had not yet known him a month; and only within the last
                        fortnight had he been making frequent visits — entirely on his own
                        invitation, for she certainly would not overtly provoke such a visitation as
                        his coming meant. Mrs. Severence would have been angry had she dared. But
                        Craig's manner was most alarming; what would — what would
                        not a person so indifferent to the decencies of life do if he were
                        crossed?
                    "She must get married," pursued Craig firmly. "Do
                        you know why I've been coming here these past two or three
                        weeks?"
                    Mrs. Severence was astounded anew. The man was actually about to propose for
                        her daughter! This common man, with nothing!
                    "It's not my habit to make purposeless visits,"
                        continued he, "especially among frivolous, idle people like you.
                        I've been coming here to make a study of your
                        daughter."
                    He paused. Mrs. Severence gave a feeble, frightened smile, made a sound that
                        might have been mirth and again might have been the beginnings of a
                        hastily-suppressed call for help.
                    "And," Craig went on energetically, "I find that
                             she is a very superior sort of person. In
                        another environment she might have been a big, strong woman. She's
                        amazing, considering the sickly, sycophantic atmosphere she's been
                        brought up in. Now, I want to see her married. She's thoroughly
                        discontented and unhappy. She's becoming sour and cynical. We must get her married. It's your duty to rouse
                        yourself."
                    Mrs. Severence did rouse herself just at this moment. Cheeks aflame and voice
                        trembling, she stood and said:
                    "You are very kind, Mr. Craig, to offer to assist me in bringing up
                        my family. Surely — such — such interest is unusual on
                        brief and very slight acquaintance." She rang the bell. "I
                        can show my appreciation in only one way." The old butler,
                        Williams, appeared. "Williams, show this gentlemen out."
                        And she left the room.
                    Williams, all frigid dignity and politeness, stood at the large entrance
                        doors, significantly holding aside one curtain. Craig rose, his face red.
                        "Mrs. Severence isn't very well," said he noisily
                        to the servant, as if he were on terms of closest intimacy with the family.
                        "Tell Margaret I'll wait for her in the garden."
                        And he rushed out by the window that opened on the veranda,  leaving the amazed butler at the door,
                        uncertain what to do.
                    Mrs. Severence, ascending the stairs in high good humor with herself at
                        having handled a sudden and difficult situation as well as she had ever read
                        of its being handled in a novel, met her daughter descending.
                    "Sh-h!" said she in a whisper, for she had not heard the
                        front door close. "He may not be gone. Come with me."
                    Margaret followed her mother into the library at the head of the stairs.
                    "It was that Craig man," explained Mrs. Severence, when she
                        had the door closed. "What do you think he had
                        the impudence to do?"
                    "I'm sure I can't imagine," said
                        Margaret, impatient.
                    "He proposed for you!"
                    Margaret reflected a brief instant. "Nonsense!" she said
                        decisively. "He's not that kind. You misunderstood
                        him."
                    "I tell you he did!" cried her mother. "And I
                        ordered him out of the house."
                    "What?" screamed Margaret, clutching her mother's
                        arm. "What?"
                    
                    
                    "I ordered him out of the house," stammered her mother.
                    "I wish you'd stick to your novels and let me attend to my
                        own affairs," cried Margaret, pale with fury. "Is he
                        gone?"
                    "I left Williams attending to it. Surely,
                        Rita—"
                    But Margaret had flung the door open and was darting down the stairs.
                        "Where is he?" she demanded fiercely of Williams, still in
                        the drawing-room doorway.
                    "In the garden, ma'am," said Williams.
                        "He didn't pay no attention."
                    But Margaret was rushing through the drawing-room. At the French windows she
                        caught sight of him, walking up and down in his usual quick, alert manner,
                        now smelling flowers, now staring up into the trees, now scrutinizing the
                        upper windows of the house. She drew back, waited until she had got her
                        breath and had composed her features. Then, with the long skirts of her
                        graceful pale-blue dress trailing behind her, and a big white sunshade open
                        and resting upon her shoulder, she went down the veranda steps and across
                        the lawn toward him. He paused, gazed at her in frank — vulgarly
                        frank — admiration; just then, it seemed to her, he never said or
                        did or looked anything except in the vulgarest way.
                    
                    "You certainly are a costly-looking luxury," said he
                        loudly, when there were still a dozen yards between them. "Oh,
                        there's your mother at the window, upstairs — her bedroom
                        window."
                    "How did you know it was her bedroom?" asked Margaret.
                    "While I was waiting for you to come down one day I sent for one of
                        the servants and had him explain the lay of the house."
                    "Really!" said Margaret, satirical and amused. "I
                        suppose there was no mail on the table or you'd have read that
                        while you waited?"
                    "There you go, trying to say clever, insulting things. Why not be
                        frank? Why not be direct?"
                    "Why should I, simply because you wish it? You
                        don't half realize how amusing you are."
                    "Oh, yes, I do," retorted he, with a shrewd, quick glance
                        from those all-seeing eyes of his.
                    "Half, I said. You do half realize. I told you once before that I
                        knew what a fraud you were."
                    "I play my game in my own way," evaded he; "and it
                        seems to be doing nicely, thank you."
                    "But the further you go, the harder it'll be for you to
                        progress."
                    "Then the harder for those opposing me. I don't  make it easy for those who are making it hard
                        for me. I get 'em so busy nursing their own wounds that
                        they've no longer time to bother me. I've told you before,
                        and I tell you again, I shall go where I please."
                    "Let me see," laughed Margaret; "it was
                        Napoleon—wasn't it?—who used to talk that
                        way?"
                    "And you think I'm imitating him, eh?"
                    "You do suggest it very often."
                    "I despise him. A wicked, little, dago charlatan who was put out of
                        business as soon as he was really opposed. No!—no Waterloo for me!
                        . . . How's your mother? She got sick while I was talking to her
                        and had to leave the room."
                    "Yes, I know," said Margaret.
                    "You ought to make her take more exercise. Don't let her
                        set foot in a carriage. We are animals, and nature has provided that animals
                        shall walk to keep in health. Walking and things like that are the only sane
                        modes of getting about. Everything aristocratic is silly. As soon as we
                        begin to rear and strut we stumble into our graves— But
                        it's no use to talk to you about that. I came on another
                        matter."
                    Margaret's lips tightened; she hastily veiled her eyes.
                    "I've taken a great fancy to you," Craig went
                        on.
                    
                    "That's why I've wasted so much time on you. What
                        you need is a husband—a good husband. Am I not right?"
                    Margaret, pale, said faintly: "Go on."
                    "You know I'm right. Every man and every woman ought to
                        marry. A home—children—that's
                        life. The rest is all incidental—trivial. Do you suppose I could
                        work as I do if it wasn't that I'm getting ready to be a
                        family man? I need love—sympathy—tenderness. People think
                        I'm hard and ambitious. But they don't know. I've
                        got a heart, overflowing with tenderness, as some woman'll find out
                        some day. But I didn't come to talk about myself."
                    Margaret made a movement of surprise—involuntary, startled.
                    "No, I don't always talk about myself," Craig went
                        on; "and I'll let you into a secret. I don't think about myself nearly so much as many of these chaps
                        who never speak of themselves. However, as I was saying, I'm going
                        to get you a husband. Now, don't you get sick, as your mother did.
                        Be sensible. Trust me. I'll see you through—and
                        that's more than any of these cheap, shallow people round you would
                        do."
                    "Well?" said Margaret.
                    "You and Grant Arkwright are going to marry.  Now don't pretend—don't protest.
                        It's the proper thing and it must be done. You like
                        him?"
                    As Craig was looking sharply at her she felt she must answer. She made a
                        vague gesture of assent.
                    "Of course!" said Craig. "If you and he led a
                        natural life you'd have been married long ago. Now, I'm
                        going to dine with him to-night. I'll lay the case before him.
                        He'll be out here after you to-morrow."
                    Margaret trembled with anger. Two bright spots burned in her cheeks.
                        "You wouldn't dare!" she exclaimed breathlessly.
                        "No, not even you!"
                    "And why not?" demanded Craig calmly. "Do you
                        suppose I'm going to stand idly by, and let two friends of mine,
                        two people I'm as fond of as I am of you two creatures, make fools
                        of yourselves? No. I shall bring you together."
                    Margaret rose. "If you say a word to Grant I'll never speak
                        to you again. And I assure you I shouldn't marry him if he were the last man on earth."
                    "If you only knew men better!" exclaimed Craig earnestly.
                        His eyes fascinated her, and his sharp, penetrating voice somehow seemed to
                        reach to her very soul and seize it and hold it enthralled. "My
                        dear child, Grant Arkwright is one man in a million. I've been with
                        him in times that show men's qualities. Don't judge  men by what they are ordinarily. They
                        don't reveal their real selves. Wait till a crisis
                        comes—then you see manhood or lack of it. Life is bearable, at the
                        worst, for any of us in the routine. But when the crisis comes we need, not
                        only all our own strength, but all we can rally to our support. I tell you,
                        Miss Severence, Grant is one of the men that can be relied on. I despise his
                        surface—as I do yours. But it's because I see the
                        man—the manhood—beneath that surface, that I love him. And
                        I want him to have a woman worthy of him. That means you.
                        You, too, have the soul that makes a human being—a real
                        aristocrat—of the aristocracy of strong and honest
                        hearts."
                    Craig's face was splendid, was ethereal in its beauty, yet flashing
                        with manliness. He looked as she had seen him that night two years before,
                        when he had held even her and her worldly friends spellbound, had made them
                        thrill with ideas of nobility and human helpfulness foreign to their
                        everyday selves. She sat silent when he had finished, presently drew a long
                        breath.
                    "Why aren't you always like that?" she exclaimed
                        half to herself.
                    "You'll marry Grant?"
                    She shook her head positively. "Impossible."
                    "Why not?"
                    
                    "Impossible," she repeated. "And you
                        mustn't speak of it to me—or to him. I appreciate your
                        motive. I thank you—really, I do. It makes me feel better,
                        some-how, to have had any one think so well of me as you do. And Grant ought
                        to be proud of your friendship."
                    Their eyes met. She flushed to the line of her hair and her glance fell, for
                        she felt utterly ashamed of herself for the design upon him which she had
                        been harboring. "Let us go in and join the others," said
                        she confusedly. And her color fled, returned in a flood.
                    "No, I'm off," replied he, in his ordinary, sharp,
                        bustling way. "I'm not defeated. I've done
                        well—very well, for a beginning." And he gave her hand his
                        usual firm, uncomfortable clasp, and rushed away.
                    She walked up and down full fifteen minutes before she went toward the house.
                        At the veranda Lucia intercepted her. "Did he?" she asked
                        anxiously.
                    Margaret looked at her vaguely, then smiled. "No, he did
                        not."
                    "He didn't?" exclaimed Lucia, at once disappointed
                        and relieved.
                    "Not yet," said Margaret. She laughed, patted
                        Lucia's full-blown cheek. "Not quite yet." And
                        she went on in to tea, humming to herself gayly; she did not understand her
                        own sudden exceeding high spirits.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VIII
                    MR. CRAIG CONFIDES
                    Craig did not leave Margaret more precipitately than he had intended; that
                        would have been impossible, as he always strove to make his departures seem
                        as startling and mysterious as a dematerialization. But he did leave much
                        sooner than he had intended, and with only a small part of what he had
                        planned to say said. He withdrew to think it over; and in the long walk from
                        the Severences to his lodgings in the Wyandotte he did think it over with
                        his usual exhaustive thoroughness.
                    He had been entirely sincere in his talk with Margaret. He was a shrewd judge
                        both of human nature and of situations, and he saw that a marriage between
                        Margaret and Grant would be in every way admirable. He appreciated the fine
                        qualities of both, and realized that they would have an uncommonly good
                        chance of hitting it off tranquilly together. Of all their qualities of
                        mutual adaptability the one that impressed him most deeply was the one at
                        which he was always scoffing—what he called their breeding.
                        Theoretically, and so far  as his personal
                        practice went, he genuinely despised "breeding"; but he
                        could not uproot a most worshipful reverence for it, a reverence of which he
                        was ashamed. He had no "breeding" himself; he was
                        experiencing in Washington a phase of life which was entirely new to him,
                        and it had developed in him the snobbish instincts that are the rankest
                        weeds in the garden of civilization. Their seeds fly everywhere, are sown
                        broadcast, threaten the useful plants and the flowers incessantly, contrive
                        to grow, to flourish even, in the desert places. Craig had an instinct
                        against this plague; but he was far too self-confident to suspect that it
                        could enter his own gates and attack his own fields. He did not dream that
                        the chief reason why he thought Grant and Margaret so well suited to each
                        other was the reason of snobbishness; that he was confusing their virtues
                        with their vices; and was admiring them for qualities which were blighting
                        their usefulness and even threatening to make sane happiness impossible for
                        either. It was not their real refinement that he admired, and, at times,
                        envied; it was their showy affectations of refinement, those gaudy pretenses
                        that appeal to the crude human imagination, like uniforms and titles.
                    It had not occurred to him that Margaret might possibly be willing to become
                        his wife. He would have  denied it as fiercely
                        to himself as to others, but at bottom he could not have thought of himself
                        as at ease in any intimate relation with her. He found her beautiful
                        physically, but much too fine and delicate to be comfortable with. He could
                        be brave, bold, insolent with her, in an impersonal way; but personally he
                        could not have ventured the slightest familiarity, now that he really
                        appreciated "what a refined, delicate woman is."
                    But the easiest impression for a woman to create upon a man—or a man
                        upon a woman—is the impression of being in love. We are so
                        conscious of our own merits, we are so eager to have them appreciated, that
                        we will exaggerate or misinterpret any word or look, especially from a
                        person of the opposite sex, into a tribute to them. When Craig pleaded for
                        Grant and Margaret, moved by his eloquent sincerity, dropped her eyes and
                        colored in shame for her plans about him, in such black contrast with his
                        frank generosity, he noted her change of expression, and instantly his
                        vanity flashed into his mind: "Can it be that she loves
                        me?"
                    The more he reflected upon it the clearer it became to him that she did. Yes,
                        here was being repeated the old story of the attraction of extremes.
                        "She isn't so refined that appreciation of real manhood
                        has been refined out of her," thought he. "And why
                        shouldn't  she love me? What does all
                        this nonsense of family and breeding amount to, anyway?" His mind
                        was in great confusion. At one moment he was dismissing the idea of such
                        delicateness, such super-refined supersensitiveness being taken with a man
                        of his imperfect bringing-up and humble origin. The next moment his
                        self-esteem was bobbing again, was jauntily assuring him that he was
                        "a born king" and, therefore, would naturally be
                        discovered and loved by a truly princess— "And, by Heaven,
                        she is a princess of the blood royal! Those eyes, those
                        hands, those slender feet!" Having no great sense of humor he did
                        not remind himself here how malicious nature usually deprives royalty of the
                        outward marks of aristocracy to bestow them upon peasant.
                    At last he convinced himself that she was actually burning with love for him,
                        that she had lifted the veil for an instant—had lifted it
                        deliberately to encourage him to speak for himself. And he was not repelled
                        by this forwardness, was, on the contrary, immensely flattered. It is the
                        custom for those of high station to reassure those of lower, to make them
                        feel that they may draw near without fear. A queen seeking a consort among
                        princes always begins the courting. A rich girl willing to marry a poor man
                        lets him see she will not be  offended if he
                        offers to add himself to her possessions. Yes, it would be quite consistent
                        with sex-custom, with maidenly modesty, for a Severence to make the first
                        open move toward a Josh Craig.
                    "But do I want her?"
                    That was another question. He admired her, he would be proud to have such a
                        wife. "She's just the sort I need, to adorn the station
                        I'm going to have." But what of his dreams of family life,
                        of easy, domestic undress, which she would undoubtedly find coarse and
                        vulgar? "It would be like being on parade all the
                        time—she's been used to that sort of thing her whole life,
                        but it'd make me miserable." Could he afford a complete, a
                        lifelong sacrifice of comfort to gratify a vanity?
                    He had devoted much thought to the question of marriage. On the one hand he
                        wanted money; for in politics, with the people so stupid and so fickle, a
                        man without an independence, at least, would surely find himself, sooner or
                        later, in a position where he must choose between retiring and submitting
                        himself to some powerful interest—either a complete sale, or a
                        mortgage hardly less galling to pride, no less degrading to self-respect. On
                        the other hand he wanted a home—a wife like his mother, domestic,
                        attentive, looking out for his comfort and his health, herself taking care
                        of the children.  And he had arrived at a
                        compromise. He would marry a girl out West somewhere, a girl of some small
                        town, brought up somewhat as he had been brought up, not shocked by what
                        Margaret Severence would regard as his vulgarities—a woman with
                        whom he felt equal and at ease. He would select such a woman, provided, in
                        addition, with some fortune—several hundred thousands, at least,
                        enough to make him independent. Such had been his plan. But now that he had
                        seen Margaret, had come to appreciate her through studying her as a possible
                        wife for his unattached friend Arkwright, now that he had discovered her
                        secret, her love for him—how could he fit her into his career? Was
                        it possible? Was it wise?
                    "The best is none too good for me," said he to himself
                        swaggeringly. No doubt about it—no, indeed, not the slightest.
                        But—well, everybody wouldn't realize this, as yet. And it
                        must be admitted that those mere foppish, inane nothings did produce a
                        seeming of difference. Indeed, it must even be admitted that the way
                        Margaret had been brought up would make it hard for her, with her sensitive,
                        delicate nerves, to bear with him if she really knew him. A hot wave passed
                        over his body at the thought. "How ashamed I'd be to have
                        her see my wardrobe. I really must brace up in the  matter of shirts, and in the quality of underclothes and
                        socks." No, she probably would be shocked into aversion if she
                        really knew him—she, who had been surrounded by servants in livery
                        all her life; who had always had a maid to dress, to arrange a delicious
                        bath for her every morning and every evening, to lay out, from a vast and
                        thrilling store of delicate clothing, the fresh, clean, fine, amazingly
                        costly garments that were to have the honor and the pleasure of draping that
                        aristocratic body of hers. "Why, her maid," thought he,
                        "is of about the same appearance and education as my aunts. Old
                        Williams is a far more cultured person than my uncles or
                        brothers-in-law." Of course, Selina and Williams were menials,
                        while his male kin were men and his female relatives women, "and
                        all of them miles ahead of anything in this gang when it comes to the real
                        thing—character." Still, so far as appearances
                        went— "I'm getting to be a damned, cheap
                        snob!" cried he aloud. "To hell with the whole crowd! I
                        want nothing to do with them!"
                    But Margaret, in her beautiful garments, diffusing perfume just as her look
                        and manner diffused the aroma of gentle breeding— The image of her
                        was most insidiously alluring; he could not banish it. "And, damn
                        it all, isn't she just a human being? What's become of  my common-sense that I treat these foolish
                        trifles as if they were important?"
                    Grant Arkwright came while the debate was still on. He soon noted that
                        something was at work in Josh's mind to make him so silent and
                        glum, so different from his usual voluble, flamboyant self.
                        "What's up, Josh? What deviltry are you plotting now to
                        add to poor old Stillwater's nervous indigestion?"
                    "I'm thinking about marriage," said Craig,
                        lighting a cigarette and dropping into the faded magnificence of an ex-salon
                        chair.
                    "Good business!" exclaimed Arkwright.
                    "It's far more important that you get married than that I
                        do," explained Craig. "At present you don't
                        amount to a damn. You're like one of those twittering swallows out
                        there. As a married man you'd at least have the validity that
                        attaches to every husband and father."
                    "If I could find the right girl," said Grant.
                    "I thought I had found her for you," continued Craig.
                        "But, on second thoughts, I've about decided to take her
                        for myself."
                    "Oh, you have?" said Arkwright, trying to be facetious of
                        look and tone.
                    "Yes," said Josh, in his abrupt, decisive way. He  threw the cigarette into the empty fireplace
                        and stood up. "I think I'll take your advice and marry
                        Miss Severence."
                    "Really!" mocked Grant; but he was red with anger, was
                        muttering under his breath, "Insolent puppy!"
                    "Yes, I think she'll do." Craig spoke as if his
                        verdict were probably overpartial to her. "It's queer
                        about families and the kind of children they have. Every once in a while
                        you'll find a dumb ass of a man whose brain will get to boiling
                        with liquor or some other ferment, and it'll incubate an idea, a
                        real idea. It's that way about paternity—or, rather,
                        maternity. Now who'd think that inane, silly mother of
                        Margaret's could have brought such a person as she is into the
                        world?"
                    "Mrs. Severence is a very sweet and amiable lady," said Grant coldly.
                    "Pooh!" scoffed Craig. "She's a
                        nothing—a puff of wind—a nit. Such as she, by the great
                        gross, wouldn't count one."
                    
                        "I doubt if it would
                            be—wise—politically, I mean—for you to marry
                            a woman of—of the fashionable set." Grant spoke
                            judicially, with constraint in his voice.
                    
                    "You're quite right there," answered Craig
                        promptly. "Still, it's a temptation. . . . I've
                        been  reconsidering the idea since I
                        discovered that she loves me."
                    Grant leaped to his feet. "Loves you!" he shouted. Josh
                        smiled calmly. "Loves me," said he. "Why not,
                        pray?"
                    "I—I—I—don't know,"
                        answered Grant weakly.
                    "Oh, yes, you do. You think I'm not good enough for
                        her—as if this were not America, but Europe." And he went
                        on loftily: "You ought to consider what such thoughts mean, as
                        revelations of your own character, Grant."
                    "You misunderstood me entirely," protested Grant, red and
                        guilty. "Didn't I originally suggest her to
                        you?"
                    "But you didn't really mean it," retorted Craig
                        with a laugh which Grant thought the quintessence of impertinence.
                        "You never dreamed she'd fall in love with
                        me."
                    "Josh," said Grant, "I wish you wouldn't
                        say that sort of thing. It's not considered proper in this part of
                        the country for a gentleman to speak out that way about women."
                    "What's there to be ashamed of in being in love? Besides,
                        aren't you my best friend, the one I confide everything
                        to?"
                    
                    "You confide everything to everybody."
                    Craig looked amused. "There are only two that can keep a
                        secret," said he, "nobody and everybody. I trust either
                        the one or the other, and neither has ever betrayed me."
                    "To go back to the original subject: I'd prefer you
                        didn't talk to me in that way about that particular young
                        lady."
                    "Why? . . . Because you're in love with her,
                        yourself?"
                    Grant silently stared at the floor.
                    "Poor old chap," said Craig sympathetically.
                    Arkwright winced, started to protest, decided it was just as well to let
                        Craig think what he pleased at that juncture.
                    "Poor old chap!" repeated Josh. "Well, you
                        needn't despair. It's true she isn't in love with
                        you and is in love with me. But if I keep away from her and discourage her
                        it'll soon die out. Women of that sort of bringing up
                        aren't capable of any enduring emotion—unless they have
                        outside aid in keeping it alive."
                    "No, thank you," said Arkwright bitterly. "I
                        decline to be put in the position of victim of your generosity. Josh, let me
                        tell you, your notion that she's in love with you is absurd.
                        I'd advise you not to go  round
                        confiding it to people, in your usual fashion. You'll make yourself
                        a laughing stock."
                    "I've told no one but you," protested Craig.
                    "Have you seen any one else since you got the idea?"
                    "No, I haven't," he admitted with a laugh.
                        "Now that you've told me the state of your heart
                        I'll not speak of her feeling for me. I give you my word of honor
                        on that. I understand how a chap like you, full of false pride, would be
                        irritated at having people know he'd married a woman who was once
                        in love with some one else. For of course you'll marry
                        her."
                    "I'm not sure of that. I haven't your sublime
                        self-confidence, you know."
                    "Oh, I'll arrange it," replied Craig, full of
                        enthusiasm. "In fact, I had already begun, this very afternoon,
                        when she let me see that she loved me and, so, brought me up
                        standing."
                    "Damn it, man, don't say that!"
                        cried Grant, all afire. "I tell you it's crazy, conceited
                        nonsense."
                    "All right, all right, old chap," soothed Josh.
                    And it frenzied Arkwright to see that he said this merely to spare the
                        feelings of an unrequited lover, not at all because he had begun to doubt
                        Margaret's love. "Come down to dinner and let's
                        talk no more about it," said Grant, with a great effort restraining
                        himself. "I  tell you, Josh, you make
                        it mighty hard sometimes for me to remember what I owe you."
                    Craig wheeled on him with eyes that flashed and pierced. "My young
                        friend," said he, "you owe me nothing. And let me say to
                        you, once for all, you are free to break with me at any instant—you
                        or any other man. Whenever I find I'm beginning to look on a man as
                        necessary to me I drop him—break with him. I am necessary to my
                        friends, not they to me. I like you, but be careful how you get impertinent
                        with me."
                    Craig eyed him fiercely and steadily until Arkwright's gaze dropped.
                        Then he laughed friendly. "Come along, Grant," said he.
                        "You're a good fellow, and I'll get you the
                        girl." And he linked his arm in Arkwright's and took up
                        another phase of himself as the topic of his monologue.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IX
                    SOMEWHAT CYCLONIC
                    Margaret, on the way home afoot from the White House, where she had been
                        lunching with the President's niece, happened upon Craig standing
                        with his hands behind his back before the statue of Jackson. He was gazing
                        up at the fierce old face with an expression so animated that passers-by
                        were smiling broadly. She thought he was wholly absorbed; but when she was
                        about half-way across his range of vision he hailed her. "I say,
                        Miss Severence!" he cried loudly.
                    She flushed with annoyance. But she halted, for she knew that if she did not
                        he would only shout at her and make a scene.
                    "I'll walk with you," said he, joining her when he
                        saw she had no intention of moving toward him.
                    "Don't let me draw you from your devotions,"
                        protested she. "I'm just taking a car,
                        anyhow."
                    "Then I'll ride home with you and walk back. I want to talk
                        with a woman—a sensible woman—not easy to find in this
                        town."
                    
                    Margaret was disliking him, his manner was so offensively familiar and
                        patronizing—and her plans concerning him made her contemptuous of
                        herself, and therefore resentful against him. "I'm greatly
                        flattered," said she.
                    "No, you're not. But you ought to be. I suppose if you had
                        met that old chap on the pedestal there when he was my age you'd
                        have felt toward him much as you do toward me."
                    "And I suppose he'd have been just about as much affected
                        by it as you are."
                    "Just about. It was a good idea, planting his statue there to warn
                        the fellow that happens to be in the White House not to get too cultured.
                        You know it was because the gang that was in got too refined and forgot whom
                        this country belonged to that old Jackson was put in office. The same thing
                        will happen again."
                    "And you'll be the person?" suggested Margaret
                        with a smile of raillery.
                    "If I show I'm fit for the job," replied Craig
                        soberly. It was the first time she had ever heard him admit a doubt about
                        himself. "The question is," he went on, "have I
                        got the strength of character and the courage? . . . What do you
                        think?"
                    "I don't know anything about it," said Margaret
                             with polite indifference. "There
                        comes my car. I'll not trouble you to accompany me." She
                        put out her hand. "Goodby." She did not realize it, or
                        intend it, but she had appealed to one of his powerful instincts, a powerful
                        instinct in all predatory natures—the instinct to pursue whatever
                        seems to be flying.
                    He shook his head at the motorman, who was bringing the car to a halt; the
                        car went on. He stood in front of her. Her color was high, but she could not
                        resist the steady compulsion of his eyes. "I told you I wanted to
                        talk with you," said he. "Do you know why I was standing
                        before that statue?"
                    "I do not," Margaret answered coldly.
                    "I was trying to get the courage to ask you to be my
                        wife."
                    She gave a queer laugh. "Well, you seem to have got what you
                        sought," said she. He had, as usual, taken her wholly unawares.
                    "Not so fast," replied Craig. "I haven't
                        asked you yet."
                    Margaret did not know whether she most wished to laugh or to burst out in
                        anger. "I'm sure I don't care anything about it,
                        one way or the other," said she.
                    "Why say those insincere things—to me?" he  urged. She had begun
                        to walk, and he was keeping pace with her. "Jackson," he
                        proceeded, "was a man of absolute courage. He took the woman he
                        wanted—defied public opinion to do it—and it only made him
                        the more popular. I had always intended to strengthen myself by marrying. If
                        I married you I'd weaken myself politically, while if I married
                        some Western girl, some daughter of the people, I'd make a great
                        popular stroke."
                    "Well—do it, then," said Margaret. "By
                        all means do it."
                    "Oh, but there's you," exclaimed Craig.
                        "What'd I do about you?"
                    "That's true," said Margaret mockingly.
                        "But what am I to stand between a man and ambition?"
                    "I say that to myself," replied Craig. "But
                        it's no use." His eyes thrilled her, his voice seemed to
                        melt her dislike, her resolve, as he said: "There you are, and
                        there you stay, Margaret. And you're not at all fit to be my wife.
                        You haven't been brought up right. You ought to marry some man like
                        Grant. He's just the man for you. Why did you ever fall in love
                        with me?"
                    She stopped short, stared at him in sheer amazement. "I!"
                        exclaimed she. "I—in love with you!"
                    
                    He halted before her. "Margaret," he said tenderly,
                        "can you deny it?"
                    She flushed; hung her head. The indignant denial died upon her lips.
                    He sighed. "You see, it is fate," said he. "But
                        I'll manage it somehow. I'll win out in spite of any, of
                        every handicap."
                    She eyed him furtively. Yes, if she wished to make a marriage of ambition she
                        could not do better. All Washington was laughing at him; but she felt she
                        had penetrated beneath the surface that excited their mirth—had
                        seen qualities that would carry him wherever he wished to
                        go—wherever she, with her grandmother's own will, wished
                        him to go.
                    "And," pursued he, "I'm far too rough and
                        coarse for you—you, the quintessence of aristocracy."
                    She flushed with double delight—delight at this flattery and the
                        deeper delight a woman feels when a man shows her the weakness in himself by
                        which she can reach and rule him.
                    "I'm always afraid of offending your delicacy," he
                        went fatuously on. "You're the only person I ever felt
                        that way about. Absolutely the only one. But you've got to expect
                        that sort of thing in a man who prevails in such a world as this. When men
                        get too  high-toned and aristocratic, too
                        fussy about manners and dress, along come real men to ride them down and
                        under. But I'll try to be everything you wish—to you. Not
                        to the others. That would defeat our object; for I'm going to take
                        my wife high—very high."
                    Yes, he would indeed take her high—very high. Now that what she
                        wanted, what she must have, was offering, how could she refuse? They were
                        crossing another square of green. He drew—almost
                        dragged—her into one of the by-paths, seized her in his arms,
                        kissed her passionately. "I can't resist you—I
                        can't!" he cried.
                    "Don't—don't!" she murmured,
                        violently agitated. "Some one might see!"
                    "Some one is seeing, no doubt," he said, his breath coming
                        quickly, a look that was primeval, ferocious almost, in his eyes as they
                        devoured her. And, despite her protests and struggles, she was again in
                        those savage arms of his, was again shrinking and burning and trembling
                        under his caresses. She flung herself away, sank upon a bench, burst out
                        crying.
                    "What is it, Margaret?" he begged, alarmed, yet still
                        looking as if he would seize her again.
                    "I don't know—I don't know," she
                        replied.
                    
                    
                        "I can't resist you—I
                            can't! he cried."
                    
                    
                    Once more she tried to tell him that she did not love him, but the words
                        would not come. She felt that he would not believe her; indeed, she was not
                        sure of her own heart, of the meaning of those unprecedented emotions that
                        had risen under his caresses, and that stirred at the memory of them.
                        "Perhaps I am trying to love him," she said to herself.
                        "Anyhow, I must marry him. I can trifle with my future no longer. I
                        must be free of this slavery to grandmother. I must be free. He can free me,
                        and I can manage him, for he is afraid of me."
                    "Did I hurt you?" Craig was asking.
                    She nodded.
                    "I am so sorry," he exclaimed. "But when I touched
                        you I forgot—everything!"
                    She smiled gently at him. "I didn't dream you cared for
                        me," she said.
                    He laughed with a boisterousness that irritated her. "I'd
                        never have dared tell you," replied he, "if I
                        hadn't seen that you cared for me."
                    Her nerves winced, but she contrived to make her tone passable as she
                        inquired: "Why do you say that?"
                    "Oh—the day in the garden—the day I came pleading
                        for Grant. I saw it in your eyes—You remember."
                    Margaret could not imagine what he had misinterpreted  so flatteringly to himself. But what did it matter? How like
                        ironic fate, to pierce him with a chance shaft when all the shafts she had
                        aimed had gone astray!
                    She was startled by his seizing her again. At his touch she flamed.
                        "Don't!" she cried imperiously. "I
                        don't like it!"
                    He laughed, held her the more tightly, kissed her half a dozen times squarely
                        upon the lips. "Not that tone to me," said he. "I
                        shall kiss you when I please."
                    She was furiously angry; but again her nerves were trembling, were responding
                        to those caresses, and even as she hated him for violating her lips, she
                        longed for him to continue to violate them. She started up. "Let us
                        go," she cried.
                    He glanced at his watch. "I'll have to put you in a
                        car," said he. "I forgot all about my
                        appointment." And he fumed with impatience while she was adjusting
                        her hat and veil pushed awry by his boisterous lovemaking.
                        "It's the same old story," he went on.
                        "Woman weakens man. You are a weakness with me—one that
                        will cost me dear."
                    She burned with a sense of insult. She hated him, longed to pour out
                        denunciations, to tell him just what she thought of him. She felt a contempt
                        for herself deeper than her revulsion against him. In silence she  let him hurry her along to a car; she
                        scarcely heard what he was saying—his tactless, angry outburst
                        against himself and her for his tardiness at that important appointment. She
                        dropped into the seat with a gasp of relief. She felt she must—for
                        form's sake—merely for form's
                        sake—glance out of the window for the farewell he would be certain
                        to expect; she must do her part, now that she had committed herself. She
                        glanced; he was rushing away, with never a backward look—or
                        thought. It was her crowning humiliation. "I'll make him
                        pay for all this, some day!" she said to herself, shaking with
                        anger, her grandmother's own temper raging cyclonically within
                        her.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER X
                    A BELATED PROPOSAL
                    Her mood—outraged against Craig, sullenly determined to marry him,
                        angry with her relatives, her mother no less than her grandmother, because
                        they were driving her to these desperate measures—this mood
                        persisted, became intenser, more imperious in its demand for a sacrifice as
                        the afternoon wore on. When Grant Arkwright came, toward six
                        o'clock, she welcomed him, the first-comer bringing her the
                        longed-for chance to discharge the vials of her wrath. And she noted with
                        pleasure that he, too, was in a black humor. Before she could begin he burst
                        forth:
                    "What's this that Josh Craig has been telling me? He seems
                        to have gone stark mad!"
                    Margaret eyed him with icy disdain. "If there is any quality that
                        can be called the most repulsive," said she, "it is
                        treachery. You've fallen into a way of talking of your friend Craig
                        behind his back that's unworthy—perhaps not of you, but
                        certainly of the person you pose as being."
                    
                    "Did you propose to him this afternoon?" demanded
                        Grant.
                    Margaret grew cold from head to foot. "Does he say I did?"
                        she succeeded in articulating.
                    "He does. He was so excited that he jumped off a car and held me an
                        hour telling me, though he was late for one of those important conferences
                        he's always talking about."
                    Margaret had chosen her course. "Did he ask you to run and tell me
                        he had told you?" inquired she, with the vicious gleam of a vicious
                        temper in her fine hazel eyes.
                    "No," admitted Grant. "I suppose I've no
                        right to tell you. But it was such an infernal
                        lie."
                    "Did you tell him so?"
                    Arkwright grew red.
                    "I see you did not," said Margaret. "I knew you
                        did not. Now, let me tell you, I don't believe Craig said anything
                        of the kind. A man who'd betray a friend is quite capable of lying
                        about him."
                    "Margaret! Rita Severence!" Grant started up, set down his
                        teacup, stood looking down at her, his face white to the lips.
                        "Your tone is not jest; it is insult."
                    "It was so intended." Margaret's eyes were upon
                        him, her grandmother's own favorite expression in them.  Now that she was no longer a matrimonial
                        offering she felt profoundly indifferent to eligible men, rejoiced in her
                        freedom to act toward them as she wished. "I do not permit any one
                        to lie to me about the man I have engaged to marry."
                    "What!" shouted Grant. "It was true?"
                    "Go out into the garden and try to calm yourself, Grant,"
                        said the girl haughtily. "And if you can't,
                        why—take yourself off home. And don't come back until you
                        are ready to apologize."
                    "Rita, why didn't you give me a hint? I'd have
                        married you myself. I'm willing to do it. . . . Rita, will you
                        marry me?"
                    Margaret leaned back upon the sofa and laughed until his blood began to run
                        alternately hot and cold.
                    "I beg your pardon," he stammered. "I did not
                        realize how it sounded. Only—you know how things are with our sort
                        of people. And, as men go, I can't help knowing I'm
                        what's called a catch, and that you're looking for a
                        suitable husband. . . . As it's apparently a question of him or me,
                        and as you've admitted you got him by practically
                        proposing— . . . Damn it all, Rita, I want you, and I'm
                        not going to let such a man as he is have you. I never dreamed
                        you'd bother with him seriously or I'd not have been so
                        slow."
                    
                    Margaret was leaning back, looking up at him. "I've sunk
                        even lower than I thought," she said, bringing to an end the
                        painful silence which followed this speech.
                    "What do you mean, Rita?"
                    She laughed cynically, shrugged her shoulders. First, Craig's
                        impudent assumption that she loved him, and his rude violation of her lips;
                        now, this frank insolence of insult, the more savage that it was
                        unconscious—and from the oldest and closest of her men friends. If
                        one did not die under such outrages, but continued to live and let live, one
                        could save the situation only by laughing. So, Margaret laughed—and
                        Arkwright shivered.
                    "For God's sake, Rita!" he cried.
                        "I'd not have believed that lips so young and fresh as
                        yours could utter such a cynical sound."
                    She looked at him with disdainful, derisive eyes. "It's
                        fortunate for me that I have a sense of humor," said she.
                        "And for you," she added.
                    "But I am in earnest, I mean it—every word I
                        said."
                    "That's just it," replied she. "You meant
                        it—every word."
                    "You will marry me?"
                    
                    "I will not."
                    "Why?"
                    "For several reasons. For instance, I happen to be engaged to
                        another man."
                    "That is—nothing." He snapped his fingers.
                    She elevated her brows. "Nothing?"
                    "He'd not keep his promise to you if—In fact, he
                        was debating with me whether or not he'd back down."
                    "Either what you say is false," said she evenly,
                        "or you are betraying the confidence of a friend who trusted in
                        your honor."
                    "Oh, he said it, all right. You know how he is about
                        confidences."
                    "No matter."
                    Margaret rose slowly, a gradual lifting of her long, supple figure. Grant
                        watching, wondered why he had never before realized that the sensuous charm
                        of her beauty was irresistible. "When were my eyes?" he
                        asked himself. "She's beyond any of the women
                        I've wasted so much time on."
                    She was saying with quiet deliberateness: "A few days ago, Grant,
                        I'd have jumped at your offer—to be perfectly frank. Why
                        shouldn't I be frank! I'm sick of cowardly pretenses and
                        lies. I purpose henceforth  to be
                        myself—almost." A look within and a slightly derisive
                        smile. "Almost. I shall hesitate and trifle no longer. I shall
                        marry your friend Craig."
                    "You'll do nothing of the kind," raged Arkwright.
                        "If you make it necessary I'll tell him why
                        you're marrying him."
                    "You may do as you like about that," replied she.
                    "He'll probably understand why you are trying to break off
                        our engagement."
                    "You're very confident of your power over him,"
                        taunted he.
                    She saw again Craig's face as he was kissing her.
                        "Very," replied she.
                    "You'll see. It's a mere physical
                        attraction."
                    She smiled tantalizingly, her long body displayed against the window-casing,
                        her long, round arms bare below the elbows, her hazel eyes and sensuous lips
                        alluring. "You, yourself, never thought of proposing to me until I
                        had made myself physically attractive to you," said she.
                        "Now—have I power over you, or not?"
                    She laughed as his color mounted, and the look she had seen in
                        Craig's eyes blazed out in his.
                    "How little physical charm you have for me," she  went on. "Beside Craig
                        you're like an electric fan in competition with a storm-wind. Now,
                        Craig—" She closed her eyes and drew a long breath.
                    Arkwright gnawed his lip. "What a—a devil
                        you are!" he exclaimed.
                    "I wonder why it is a woman never becomes desirable to some men
                        until they find she's desired elsewhere," she went on
                        reflectively. "What a lack of initiative. What timidity. What an
                        absence of originality. If I had nothing else against you, Grant,
                        I'd never forgive you for having been so long blind to my
                        charms—you and these other men of our set who'll doubtless
                        be clamorous now."
                    "If you'd been less anxious to please," suggested
                        he bitterly, "and more courageous about being your own real self,
                        you'd not have got yourself into this mess."
                    "Ah—but that wasn't my fault," replied
                        she absently. "It was the fault of my training. Ever since I can
                        remember I've been taught to be on my guard, lest the men
                        shouldn't like me." In her new freedom she looked back
                        tranquilly upon the struggle she was at last emancipated from, and
                        philosophized about it. "What a mistake mothers make in putting
                        worry about getting a husband into their daughters' heads. Believe
                        me,  Grant, that dread makes wretched what
                        ought to be the happiest time of a girl's life."
                    "Rita," he pleaded, "stop this nonsense, and say
                        you'll marry me."
                    "No, thanks," said she. "I've chosen. And
                        I'm well content."
                    She gave him a last tantalizing look and went out on the veranda, to go along
                        it to the outdoor stairway. Arkwright gazed after her through a fierce
                        conflict of emotions. Was she really in earnest? Could it be possible that
                        Josh Craig had somehow got a hold over her? "Or, is it that she
                        doesn't trust me, thinks I'd back down if she were to
                        throw him over and rely on me?" No, there was something positively
                        for Craig in her tone and expression. She was really intending to marry him.
                        Grant shuddered. "If she only realized what marrying a man of that
                        sort means!" he exclaimed, half aloud. "But she
                        doesn't. Only a woman who has been married can appreciate what sort
                        of a hell for sensitive nerves and refined tastes marriage can be
                        made."
                    "Ah—Mr. Arkwright!"
                    At this interruption in a woman's voice—the voice he
                        disliked and dreaded above all others—he startled and turned to
                        face old Madam Bowker in rustling black  silk,
                        with haughty casque of gray-white hair and ebon staff carried firmly, well
                        forward. Grant bowed. "How d'ye do, Mrs. Bowker?"
                        said he with respectful deference. What he would have thought was the
                        impossible had come to pass. He was glad to see her.
                        "She'll put an end to this nonsense—this
                        nightmare," said he to himself.
                    Madam Bowker had Williams, the butler, and a maidservant in her train. She
                        halted, gazed round the room; she pointed with the staff to the floor a few
                        feet from the window and a little back. "Place my chair
                        there," commanded she.
                    The butler and the maid hastened to move a large carved and gilded chair to
                        the indicated spot. Madam Bowker seated herself with much ceremony.
                    "Now!" said she. "We will rearrange the room.
                        Bring that sofa from the far corner to the other side of this window, and
                        put the tea-table in front of it. Put two chairs where the sofa was; arrange
                        the other chairs—" And she indicated the places with her
                        staff.
                    While the room was still in confusion Mrs. Severence entered. "What
                        is it, Mamma?" she asked.
                    "Simply trying to make this frightful room a little less
                        frightful."
                    "Don't you think the pictures should be rehung to  suit the new arrangement,
                        ma'am?" suggested Arkwright.
                    Madam Bowker, suspicious of jest, looked sharply at him. He seemed serious.
                        "You are right," said she.
                    "But people will be coming in a few minutes," pleaded
                        Roxana.
                    "Then to-morrow," said Madam Bowker reluctantly.
                        "That will do, Williams—that will do, Betty. And, Betty,
                        you must go at once and make yourself neat. You've had on that cap
                        two days."
                    "No, indeed, ma'am!" protested Betty.
                    "Then it was badly done up. Roxana, how can you bear to live in such
                        a slovenly way?"
                    "Will you have tea now, Mamma?" was Roxana's
                        diplomatic reply.
                    "Yes," answered the old lady.
                    "Tea, Mr. Arkwright?"
                    "Thanks, no, Mrs. Severence. I'm just going. I merely
                        looked in to—to congratulate Rita."
                    Madam Bowker clutched her staff. "To congratulate my granddaughter?
                        Upon what, pray?"
                    Arkwright simulated a look of surprise. "Upon her
                        engagement."
                    "Her what?" demanded the old lady, while
                        Roxana  sat holding a lump of sugar suspended
                        between bowl and cup.
                    "Her engagement to Josh Craig."
                    "No such thing!" declared the old lady instantly.
                        "Really, sir, it is disgraceful that my
                        granddaughter's name should be associated in any
                        connection with such a person."
                    Here Margaret entered the room by the French windows by which she had left.
                        She advanced slowly and gracefully, amid a profound silence. Just as she
                        reached the tea-table her grandmother said in a terrible voice:
                        "Margaret!"
                    "Yes, Grandmother," responded Margaret smoothly, without
                        looking at her.
                    "Mr. Arkwright here has brought in a scandalous story about your
                        being engaged to that—that Josh person—the clerk in one of
                        the departments. Do you know him?"
                    "Yes, Grandma. But not very well."
                    Madam Bowker glanced triumphantly at Arkwright; he was gazing amazedly at
                        Margaret.
                    "You see, Grant," said Roxana, with her foolish, pleasant
                        laugh, "there is nothing in it."
                    "In what?" asked Margaret innocently, emptying the hot
                        water from her cup.
                    
                    "In the story of your engagement, dear," said her
                        mother.
                    "Oh, yes, there is," replied Margaret with a smiling lift
                        of her brows. "It's quite true." Then, suddenly
                        drawing herself up, she wheeled on Grant with a frown as terrible as her
                        grandmother's own. "Be off!" she said
                        imperiously.
                    Arkwright literally shrank from the room. As he reached the door he saw her
                        shiver and heard her mutter, "Reptile!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XI
                    MADAM BOWKER HEARS THE NEWS
                    In the midst of profound hush Madam Bowker was charging her heavy artillery,
                        to train it upon and demolish the engagement certainly, and probably
                        Margaret, too. Just as she was about to open fire callers were ushered in.
                        As luck had it they were the three Stillwater girls, hastily made-over
                        Westerners, dressed with great show of fashion in what purported to be
                        imported French hats and gowns. An expert eye, however, would instantly have
                        pierced the secret of this formidable array of plumes and furbelows. The
                        Still waters fancied they had exquisite taste and real genius in the art of
                        dress. Those hats were made at home, were adaptations of the imported
                        hats—adaptations of the kind that "see" the
                        original and "go it a few better." As for the dresses, the
                        Stillwaters had found one of those treasures dear to a certain kind of
                        woman, had found a "woman just round the corner, and not
                        established yet"—"I assure you, my dear, she
                        takes a mental picture of the most difficult dress to copy, and
                        you'd  never know hers from the
                        original—and so reasonable!"
                    In advance came Molly Stillwater, the youngest and prettiest and the most
                        aggressively dressed because her position as family beauty made it incumbent
                        upon her to lead the way in fashion. As soon as the greetings were
                        over—cold, indeed, from Madam Bowker, hysterical from
                        Roxana—Molly gushed out: "Just as we left home, Josh Craig
                        came tearing in. If possible, madder than a
                        hatter—yes—really—" Molly was still too
                        young to have learned to control the mechanism of her mouth; thus, her
                        confused syntax seemed the result of the alarming and fascinating
                        contortions of her lips and tongue—"and, when we told him
                        where we were going he shouted out, `Give Rita my
                        love.'"
                    Margaret penetrated to the purpose to anger her against Craig. Was not Craig
                        intended by Mrs. Stillwater for Jessie, the eldest and only serious one of
                        the three? And was not his conduct, his hanging about Margaret and his
                        shying off from Jessie, thoroughly up on public questions and competent to
                        discuss them with anybody—was not his conduct most menacing to her
                        plans? Mrs. Stillwater, arranging for matrimony for all her daughters, had
                        decided that Jess was hopeless except as a "serious
                        woman," since she had neither figure 
                        nor face, nor even abundant hair, which alone is enough to entangle some
                        men. So, Jess had been set to work at political economy, finance, at
                        studying up the political situations; and, if started right and not
                        interfered with, she could give as good account of her teaching as any
                        phonograph.
                    Margaret welcomed Molly's message from Craig with a sweet smile. An
                        amused glance at the thunderous face of her grandmother, and she said,
                        "Perhaps it would interest you, dear, to know that he and I are
                        engaged."
                    What could Madam Bowker say? What could she do? Obviously, nothing. The three
                        Stillwaters became hysterical. Their comments and congratulations were
                        scraps of disjointed nonsense, and they got away under cover of more
                        arrivals, in as great disorder as if the heavy guns Madam Bowker had stacked
                        to the brim for Margaret had accidentally discharged into them. Madam Bowker
                        could wait no longer. "Margaret," said she, "help
                        me to my carriage."
                    Mrs. Severence gave her difficult daughter appealing glance, as if she feared
                        the girl would cap the climax of rebellion by flatly refusing; but Margaret
                        said sweetly:
                    "Yes, Grandma."
                    
                    The two left the room, the old lady leaning heavily on her granddaughter and
                        wielding her ebony staff as if getting her arm limbered to use it. In the
                        hall, she said fiercely, "To your room," and waved her
                        staff toward the stairway.
                    Margaret hesitated, shrugged her shoulders. She preceding, and Madam Bowker
                        ascending statelily afterward, they went up and were presently alone in
                        Margaret's pretty rose and gold boudoir, with the outer door
                        closed.
                    "Now!" exclaimed Madam Bowker.
                    "Not so loud, please," suggested the tranquil Margaret,
                        "unless you wish Selina to hear." She pointed to the door
                        ajar. "She's sewing in there."
                    "Send the woman away," commanded the old lady.
                    But Margaret merely closed the door. "Well,
                        Grandmother?"
                    "Sit at this desk," ordered the old lady, pointing with the
                        ebony staff, "and write a note to that man Craig, breaking the
                        engagement. Say you have thought it over and have decided it is quite
                        impossible. And to-morrow morning you go to New York with me."
                    Margaret seated herself on the lounge instead. "I'll do
                        neither," said she.
                    
                    The old lady waved the end of her staff in a gesture of lofty disdain.
                        "As you please. But, if you do not, your allowance is
                        withdrawn."
                    "Certainly," said Margaret. "I assumed
                        that."
                    Madam Bowker gazed at her with eyes like tongues of flame. "And how
                        do you expect to live?" she inquired.
                    "That is our affair," replied the girl.
                        "You say you are done with me. Well, so am I done with
                        you."
                    It was, as Margaret had said, because she was not afraid of her grandmother
                        that that formidable old lady respected her; and as she was one of those who
                        can give affection only where they give respect, she loved
                        Margaret—loved her with jealous and carping tenacity. The
                        girl's words of finality made her erect and unyielding soul shiver
                        in a sudden dreary blast of loneliness, that most tragic of all the storms
                        that sweep the ways of life. It was in the tone of the anger of love with
                        the beloved that she cried, "How dare you engage
                        yourself to such a person!"
                    "You served notice on me that I must marry," replied the
                        girl, her own tone much modified. "He was the chance that
                        offered."
                    "The chance!" Madam Bowker smiled with caustic scorn.
                        "He's not a chance."
                    
                    "You ordered me to marry. I am marrying. And you are violating your
                        promise. But I expected it."
                    "My promise? What do you mean?"
                    "You told me if I'd marry you'd continue my
                        allowance after marriage. You even hinted you'd increase
                        it."
                    "But this is no marriage. I should consider a connection between
                        such a man and a Severence as a mere vulgar intrigue. You might as well run
                        away with a coachman. I have known few coachmen so ill-bred—so
                        repellent—as this Craig."
                    Margaret laughed cheerfully. "He isn't what you'd
                        call polished, is he?"
                    Her grandmother studied her keenly. "Margaret," she finally
                        said, "this is some scheme of yours. You are using this engagement
                        to help you to something else."
                    "I refused Grant Arkwright just before you came."
                    "You—refused—Arkwright?"
                    "My original plan was to trap Grant by making him jealous of Craig.
                        But I abandoned it."
                    "And why?"
                    "A remnant of decency."
                    "I doubt it," said the old lady.
                    "So should I in the circumstances. We're a pretty queer
                        lot, aren't we? You, for instance—on the verge  of the grave, and breaking your promise to me
                        as if a promise were nothing."
                    Mrs. Bowker's ebon staff twitched convulsively and her terrible eyes
                        were like the vent-holes of internal fires; but she managed her rage with a
                        skill that was high tribute to her will-power. "You are right in
                        selecting this clown—this tag-rag," said she.
                        "You and he, I see, are peculiarly suited to each other. . . . My
                        only regret is that in my blind affection I have wasted all these years and
                        all those thousands of dollars on you." Madam Bowker affected
                        publicly a fine scorn of money and all that thereto appertained; but
                        privately she was a true aristocrat in her reverence and consideration for
                        that which is the bone and blood of aristocracy.
                    "Nothing so stupid and silly as regret," said Margaret,
                        with placid philosophy of manner. "I, too, could think of things I
                        regret. But I'm putting my whole mind on the future."
                    "Future!" Madam Bowker laughed. "Why, my child,
                        you have no future. Within two years you'll either be disgracefully
                        divorced, or the wife of a little lawyer in a little Western
                        town."
                    "But I'll have my husband and my children. What more can a
                        woman ask?"
                    
                    The old lady scrutinized her granddaughter's tranquil, delicate face
                        in utter amazement. She could find nothing on which to base a hope that the
                        girl was either jesting or posing. "Margaret," she cried,
                        "are you crazy?"
                    "Do you think a desire for a home, and a husband who adores one, and
                        children whom one adores is evidence of insanity?"
                    "Yes, you are mad—quite mad!"
                    "I suppose you think that fretting about all my seasons without an
                        offer worth accepting has driven me out of my senses. Sometimes I think so,
                        too." And Margaret lapsed into abstracted, dreamy silence.
                    "Do you pretend that you—you—care
                        for—this person?" inquired the old lady.
                    "I can't discuss him with you, Grandmother,"
                        replied the girl. "You know you have washed your hands of
                        me."
                    "I shall never give up," cried the old lady vehemently,
                        "until I rescue you. I'll not permit this disgrace.
                        I'll have him driven out of Washington."
                    "Yes, you might try that," said Margaret. "I
                        don't want him to stay here. I am sick—sick to
                        death—of all this. I loathe everything I ever liked. It almost
                        seems to me I'd prefer living in a cabin in the backwoods.  I've just wakened to what it really
                        means—no love, no friendship, only pretense and show, rivalry in
                        silly extravagance, aimless running to and fro among people that care
                        nothing for one, and that one cares nothing for. If you could see it as I
                        see it you'd understand."
                    But Madam Bowker had thought all her life in terms of fashion and society.
                        She was not in the least impressed. "Balderdash!" said she
                        with a jab at the floor with the ebony staff. "Don't pose
                        before me. You know very well you're marrying this man because you
                        believe he will amount to a great deal."
                    Margaret beamed upon her grandmother triumphantly, as if she had stepped into
                        a trap that had been set for her. "And your only reason for being
                        angry," cried she, "is that you don't believe he
                        will."
                    "I know he won't. He can't. Stillwater has kept
                        him solely because that unspeakable wife of his hopes to foist their dull,
                        ugly eldest girl on him."
                    "You think a man as shrewd as Stillwater would marry his daughter to
                        a nobody?"
                    "It's useless for you to argue, Margaret," snapped
                        the old lady. "The man's impossible—for a
                        Severence. I shall stop the engagement."
                    "You can't," rejoined Margaret calmly.
                        "My mind  is made up. And along with
                        several other qualities, Grandmother, dear, I've inherited your
                        will."
                    "Will without wit—is there anything worse? But I know you
                        are not serious. It is merely a mood—the result of a profound
                        discouragement. My dear child, let me assure you it is no unusual thing for
                        a girl of your position, yet without money, to have no offers at all. You
                        should not believe the silly lies your girlfriends tell about having bushels
                        of offers. No girl has bushels of offers unless she makes herself common and
                        familiar with all kinds of men—and takes their loose talk
                        seriously. Most men wouldn't dare offer themselves to you. The
                        impudence of this Craig! You should have ordered him out of your
                        presence."
                    Margaret, remembering how Craig had seized her, smiled.
                    "I admit I have been inconsiderate in urging you so
                        vigorously," continued her grandmother. "I thought I had
                        observed a tendency to fritter. I wished you to stop trifling with Grant
                        Arkwright—or, rather, to stop his trifling with you. Come, now, my
                        dear, let me put an end to this engagement. And you will marry Grant, and
                        your future will be bright and assured."
                    Margaret shook her head. "I have promised," said she, and
                        her expression would have thrilled Lucia.
                    
                    Madam Bowker was singularly patient with this evidence of sentimentalism.
                        "That's fine and noble of you. But you didn't
                        realize what a grave step you were taking, and you—"
                    "Yes, but I did. If ever anything was deliberate on a
                        woman's part, that engagement was." A bright spot burned
                        in each of the girl's cheeks. "He didn't really
                        propose. I pretended to misunderstand him."
                    Her grandmother stared.
                    "You needn't look at me like that," exclaimed
                        Margaret. "You know very well that Grandfather Bowker never would
                        have married you if you hadn't fairly compelled him. I heard him
                        tease you about it once when I was a little girl."
                    It was Madam Bowker's turn to redden. She deigned to smile.
                        "Men are so foolish," observed she, "that women
                        often have to guide them. There would be few marriages of the right sort if
                        the men were not managed."
                    Margaret nodded assent. "I realize that now," said she.
                        Earnestly: "Grandmother, try to make the best of this engagement of
                        mine. When a woman, a woman as experienced and sensible as I am, makes up
                        her mind a certain man is the man for her, is it wise to
                        interfere?"
                    Madam Bowker, struck by the searching wisdom of  this remark, was silenced for the moment. In the interval of thought she
                        reflected that she would do well to take counsel of herself alone in
                        proceeding to break this engagement. "You are on the verge of
                        making a terrible misstep, child," said she with a gentleness she
                        had rarely shown even to her favorite grandchild. "I shall think it
                        over, and you will think it over. At least, promise me you will not see
                        Craig for a few days."
                    Margaret hesitated. Her grandmother, partly by this unusual gentleness,
                        partly by inducing the calmer reflection of the second thought, had shaken
                        her purpose more than she would have believed possible. "If
                        I've made a mistake," said she, "isn't
                        seeing him the best way to realize it?"
                    "Yes," instantly and emphatically admitted the acute old
                        lady. "She him, by all means. See as much of him as possible. And
                        in a few days you will be laughing at yourself—and very much
                        ashamed."
                    "I wonder," said Margaret aloud, but chiefly to
                        herself.
                    And Madam Bowker, seeing the doubt in her face, only a faint reflection of
                        the doubt that must be within, went away content.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XII
                    PUTTING DOWN A MUTINY
                    Margaret made it an all but inflexible rule not to go out, but to rest and
                        repair one evening in each week; that was the evening, under the rule, but
                        she would have broken the rule had any opportunity offered. Of course, for
                        the first time since the season began, no one sent or telephoned to ask her
                        to fill in at the last moment. She half-expected Craig, though she knew he
                        was to be busy; he neither came nor called up. She dined moodily with the
                        family, sat surlily in a corner of the veranda until ten o'clock,
                        hid herself in bed. She feared she would have a sleepless night. But she had
                        eaten no dinner; and, as indigestion is about the only thing that will keep
                        a healthy human being awake, she slept dreamlessly, soundly, not waking
                        until Selina slowly and softly opened the inner blinds of her bedroom at
                        eight the next morning.
                    There are people who are wholly indifferent about their surroundings, and
                        lead the life dictated by civilized custom only because they are slaves of
                        custom. Margaret  was not one of these. She
                        not only adopted all the comforts and luxuries that were current, she also
                        spent much time in thinking out new luxuries, new refinements upon those she
                        already had. She was through and through the luxurious idler; she made of
                        idling a career—pursued it with intelligent purpose where others
                        simply drifted, yawning when pastimes were not provided for them. She was as
                        industrious and ingenious at her career as a Craig at furthering himself and
                        his ideas in a public career.
                    Like the others of her class she left the care of her mind to chance. As she
                        had a naturally good mind and a bird-like instinct for flitting everywhere,
                        picking out the food from the chaff, she made an excellent showing even in
                        the company of serious people. But that was accident. Her person was her
                        real care. To her luxurious, sensuous nature every kind of pleasurable
                        physical sensation made keen appeal, and she strove in every way to make it
                        keener. She took the greatest care of her health, because health meant
                        beauty and every nerve and organ in condition to enjoy to its uttermost
                        capacity.
                    Because of this care it was often full three hours and a half between the
                        entrance of Selina and her own exit, dressed and ready for the day. And
                        those three hours  and a half were the
                        happiest of her day usually, because they were full of those physical
                        sensations in which she most delighted. Her first move, after Selina had
                        awakened her, was to spend half an hour in "getting the yawns
                        out." She had learned this interesting, pleasant and amusing trick
                        from a baby in a house where she had once spent a week. She would extend
                        herself at full length in the bed, and then slowly stretch each separate
                        muscle of arm and leg, of foot and hand, of neck and shoulders and waist.
                        This stretching process was accompanied by a series of prolonged, profound,
                        luxurious yawns.
                    The yawning exercise completed, she rose and took before a long mirror a
                        series of other exercises, some to strengthen her waist, others to keep her
                        back straight and supple, others to make firm the contour of her face and
                        throat. A half-hour of this, then came her bath. This was no hurried plunge,
                        drying and away, but a long and elaborate function at which Selina assisted.
                        There had to be water of three temperatures; a dozen different kinds of
                        brushes, soaps, towels and other apparatus participated. When it was
                        finished Margaret's skin glowed and shone, was soft and smooth and
                        exhaled a delicious odor of lilacs. During the exercises Selina had been
                        getting ready the clothes for the day — everything  fresh throughout, and everything delicately
                        redolent of the same essence of lilacs with which Selina had rubbed her from
                        hair to tips of fingers and feet. The clothes were put on slowly, for
                        Margaret delighted in the feeling of soft silks and laces being drawn over
                        her skin. She let Selina do every possible bit of work, and gave herself up
                        wholly to the joy of being cared for.
                    "There isn't any real reason why I shouldn't be
                        doing this for you, instead of your doing it for me — is there,
                        Selina?" mused she aloud.
                    "Goodness gracious, Miss Rita!" exclaimed Selina,
                        horrified. "I wouldn't have it done for anything. I was
                        brought up to be retiring about dressing. It was my mother's dying
                        boast that no man, nor no woman, had ever seen her, a grown woman, except
                        fully dressed."
                    "Really?" said Margaret absently. She stood up, surveyed
                        herself in the triple mirror — back, front, sides. "So
                        many women never look at themselves in the back," observed she,
                        "or know how their skirts hang about the feet. I believe in
                        dressing for all points of view."
                    "You certainly are just perfect," said the adoring Selina,
                        not the least part of her admiring satisfaction due to the fact that the
                        toilette was largely the creation of her own hands. "And you smell
                        like a real lady —  not noisy, like
                        some that comes here. I hate to touch their wraps or to lay 'em
                        down in the house. But you — It's one of them smells that
                        you ain't sure whether you smelt it or dreamed it."
                    "Pretty good, Selina!" said Margaret. She could not but be
                        pleased with such a compliment, one that could have been suggested only by
                        the truth. "The hair went up well this morning, didn't
                        it?"
                    "Lovely — especially in the back. It looks as if it had
                        been marcelled, without that common, barbery stiffness-like."
                    "Yes, the back is good. And I like this blouse. I
                        must wear it oftener."
                    "You can't afford to favor it too much, Miss Rita. You know
                        you've got over thirty, all of them beauties."
                    "Some day, when I get time, we must look through my clothes. I want
                        to give you a lot of them. . . . What does become of the
                        time? Here it is, nearly eleven. See if breakfast has come up. I'll
                        finish dressing afterward if it has."
                    It had. It was upon a small table in the rose and gold boudoir. And the sun,
                        shining softly in at the creeper-shaded window, rejoiced in the surpassing
                        brightness and cleanness of the dishes of silver and thinnest porcelain and
                        cut glass. Margaret thought eating in bed a 
                        "filthy, foreign fad," and never indulged in it. She
                        seated herself lazily, drank her coffee, and ate her roll and her egg
                        slowly, deliberately, reading her letters and glancing at the paper. A
                        charming picture she made — the soft, white Valenciennes of her
                        matinée falling away from her throat and setting off the clean, smooth
                        healthiness of her skin, the blackness of her vital hair; from the white
                        lace of her petticoat's plaited flounces peered one of her slim
                        feet, a satin slipper upon the end of it. At the top of the heap of letters
                        lay one she would have recognized, she thought, had she never seen the
                        handwriting before.
                    "Sure to be upsetting," reflected she; and she laid it
                        aside, glancing now and then at the bold, nervous, irregular hand and
                        speculating about the contents and about the writer.
                    She had gone to bed greatly disturbed in mind as to whether she was doing
                        well to marry the obstreperous Westerner. "He fascinates me in a
                        wild, weird sort of a way when I'm with him," she had said
                        to herself before going to sleep, "and the idea of him is
                        fascinating in certain moods. And it is a temptation to take hold of him and
                        master and train him — like broncho-busting. But is it interesting
                        enough for — for marriage? Wouldn't I get horribly tired?
                        Wouldn't Grant and  humdrum be
                        better? less wearying?" And when she awakened she found her problem
                        all but solved. "I'll send him packing and take
                        Grant," she found herself saying, "unless some excellent
                        reason for doing otherwise appears. Grandmother was right. Engaging myself
                        to him was a mood." Once more she was all for luxury and ease and
                        calmness, for the pleasant, soothing, cut-and-dried thing. "A cold
                        bath or a rough rubdown now and then, once in a long while, is all very
                        well. It makes one appreciate comfort and luxury more. But that sort of
                        thing every day — many times each day —" Margaret
                        felt her nerves rebelling as at the stroking of velvet the wrong way.
                    She read all her other letters, finished her toilette, had on her hat, and
                        was having Selina put on her boots when she opened Craig's letter
                        and read:
                    "I must have been out of my mind this afternoon. You are wildly
                        fascinating, but you are not for me. If I led you to believe that I wished
                        to marry you, pray forget it. We should make each other unhappy and, worse
                        still, uncomfortable.
                    "Do I make myself clear? We are not engaged. I hope you will marry
                        Arkwright; a fine fellow, in every way suited to you, and, I happen to know,
                             madly in love with you. Please try to
                        forgive me. If you have any feeling for me stronger than friendship you will
                        surely get over it.
                    "Anyhow, we couldn't marry. That is settled.
                    "Let me have an answer to this. I shall be upset until I
                        hear."
                    No beginning. No end. Just a bald, brutal casting-off. A hint — more
                        than a hint — of a fear that she would try to hold him in spite of
                        himself. She smiled — small, even teeth clenched and eyelids
                        contracted cruelly — as she read a second time, with this
                        unflattering suggestion obtruding. The humiliation of being jilted! And by
                        such a man! — the private shame — the public disgrace
                        — She sprang up, crunching her foot hard down upon one of
                        Selina's hands. "What is it?" said she angrily,
                        at her maid's cry of pain.
                    "Nothing, Miss," replied Selina, quickly hiding the wounded
                        hand. "You moved so quick I hadn't time to draw away. That
                        was all."
                    "Then finish that boot!"
                    Selina had to expose the hand. Margaret looked down at it indifferently,
                        though her heel had torn the skin away from the edge of the palm and had cut
                        into the flesh.
                    
                    "Hurry!" she ordered fiercely, as Selina fumbled and
                        bungled.
                    She twitched and frowned with impatience while Selina finished buttoning the
                        boot, then descended and called Williams. "Get me Mr. Craig on the
                        telephone," she said.
                    "He's been calling you up several times to-day,
                        ma'am,—"
                    "Ah!" exclaimed Margaret, eyes flashing with sudden
                        delight.
                    "But we wouldn't disturb you."
                    "That was right," said Margaret. She was beaming now, was
                        all sunny good humor. Even her black hair seemed to glisten in her smile.
                        So! He had been calling up! Poor fool, not to realize that she would draw
                        the correct inference from this anxiety.
                    "Shall I call him?"
                    "No. I'll wait. Probably he'll call again soon.
                        I'll be in the library."
                    She had not been roaming restlessly about there many minutes before Williams
                        appeared. "He's come, himself, ma'am,"
                        said he. "I told him I didn't know whether you'd
                        be able to see him or not."
                    "Thank you, Williams," said Margaret sweetly.
                        "Order the carriage to come round at once. Leave Mr.  Craig in the drawing-room. I'll
                        speak to him on the way out."
                    She dashed upstairs. "Selina! Selina!" she called. And when
                        Selina came: "Let me see that hand. I hurt you because I got news
                        that went through me like a knife. You understand, don't
                        you?"
                    "It was nothing, Miss Rita," protested Selina.
                        "I'd forgot it myself already."
                    But Margaret insisted on assuring herself with her own eyes, got blood on her
                        white gloves, had to change them. As she descended she was putting on the
                        fresh pair — a new pair. How vastly more than even the normal is a
                        man's disadvantage in a "serious" interview with
                        a woman if she is putting on new gloves! She is perfectly free to seem
                        occupied or not, as suits her convenience; and she can, by wrestling with
                        the gloves, interrupt him without speech, distract his attention, addle his
                        thoughts, give him a sense of imbecile futility, and all the time offer him
                        no cause for resentment against her. He himself seems in the wrong; she is
                        merely putting on her gloves.
                    She was wrong in her guess that Arkwright had been at him. He had simply
                        succumbed to his own fears and forebodings, gathered in force as soon as he
                        was  not protected from them by the spell of
                        her presence. The mystery of the feminine is bred into men from earliest
                        infancy, is intensified when passion comes and excites the imagination into
                        fantastic activity about women. No man, not the most experienced, not the
                        most depraved, is ever able wholly to divest himself of this awe, except,
                        occasionally, in the case of some particular woman. Awe makes one ill at
                        ease; the woman who, by whatever means, is able to cure a man of his awe of
                        her, to make him feel free to be himself, is often able to hold him, even
                        though he despises her or is indifferent to her; on the other hand, the
                        woman who remains an object of awe to a man is certain to lose him. He may
                        be proud to have her as his wife, as the mother of his children, but he will
                        seek some other woman to give her the place of intimacy in his life.
                    At the outset on an acquaintance between a man and a woman his awe for her as
                        the embodiment of the mystery feminine is of great advantage to her; it
                        often gets him for her as a husband. In this particular case of Margaret
                        Severence and Joshua Craig, while his awe of her was an advantage, it was
                        also a disadvantage. It attracted him; it perilously repelled him. He liked
                        to release his robust imagination upon those charms of hers — those
                        delicate, refined beauties that filled him with  longings, delicious in their intensity, longings as primeval in kind as
                        well as in force as those that set delirious the savage hordes from the
                        German forests when they first poured down over the Alps and beheld the
                        jewels and marbles and round, smooth, soft women of Italy's ancient
                        civilization. But at the same time he had the unmistakable, the terrifying
                        feeling of dare-devil sacrilege. What were his coarse hands doing, dabbling
                        in silks and cobweb laces and embroideries? Silk fascinated him; but, while
                        he did not like calico so well, he felt at home with it. Yes, he had seized
                        her, had crushed her madly in the embrace of his plowman arms. But that
                        seemed now a freak of courage, a drunken man's deed, wholly beyond
                        the nerve of sobriety.
                    Then, on top of all this awe was his reverence for her as an aristocrat, a
                        representative of people who had for generations been far removed above the
                        coarse realities of the only life he knew. And it was this adoration of
                        caste that determined him. He might overcome his awe of her person and
                        dress, of her tangible trappings; but how could he ever hope to bridge the
                        gulf between himself and her intangible superiorities? He was ashamed of
                        himself, enraged against himself for this feeling of worm gazing up at star.
                        It made a mockery of all his arrogant, noisy protestations of equality and
                        democracy.
                    
                    "The fault is not in my ideas," thought he; "they're all right. The fault's in me
                        — damned snob that I am!"
                    Clearly, if he was to be what he wished, if he was to become what he had
                        thought he was, he must get away from this sinister influence, from this
                        temptation that had made him, at first onset, not merely stumble, but fall
                        flat and begin to grovel. "She is a superior
                        woman — that is no snob notion of mine," reflected he.
                        "But from the way I falter and get weak in the knees, she ought to
                        be superhuman — which she isn't, by any means. No,
                        there's only one thing to do — keep away from her.
                        Besides, I'd feel miserable with her about as my wife." My
                        wife! The very words threw him into a cold sweat.
                    So the note was written, was feverishly dispatched.
                    No sooner was it sent than it was repented. "What's the
                        matter with me?" demanded he of himself, as his courage came
                        swaggering back, once the danger had been banished. "Why, the best
                        is not too good for me. She is the best, and mighty proud
                        she ought to be of a man who, by sheer force of character, has lifted
                        himself to where I am and who is going to be what I shall be. Mighty proud!
                        There are only two realities — money and brains. I've
                        certainly got more brains than she or  any of
                        her set; as for money, she hasn't got that. The superiority is all
                        on my side. I'm the one that ought to feel
                        condescending."
                    What had he said in his note? Recalling it as well as he could — for
                        it was one, the last, of more than a dozen notes he had written in two hours
                        of that evening — recalling phrases he was pretty sure he had put
                        into the one he had finally sent, in despair of a better, it seemed to him
                        he had given her a wholly false impression — an impression of her
                        superiority and of his fear and awe. That would never do. He must set her
                        right, must show her he was breaking the engagement only because she was not
                        up to his standard. Besides, he wished to see her again to make sure he had
                        been victimized into an engagement by a purely physical, swiftly-evanescent
                        imagining. Yes, he must see her, must have a look at her, must have a talk
                        with her.
                    "It's the only decent, courageous thing to do in the
                        circumstances. Sending that note looked like cowardice — would be
                        cowardice if I didn't follow it up with a visit. And whatever else
                        I am, surely I'm not a coward!"
                    Margaret had indulged in no masculine ingenuities of logic. Woman-like, she
                        had gone straight to the practical point: Craig had written instead of
                        coming —  he was, therefore, afraid
                        of her. Having written he had not fled, but had come — he was,
                        therefore, attracted by her still. Obviously the game lay in her own hands,
                        for what more could woman ask than that a man be both afraid and attracted?
                        A little management and she not only would save herself from the threatened
                        humiliation of being jilted — jilted by an uncouth nobody of a Josh
                        Craig! — but also would have him in durance, to punish his
                        presumption at her own good pleasure as to time and manner. If Joshua Craig,
                        hardy plodder in the arduous pathway from plowboy to President, could have
                        seen what was in the mind so delicately and so aristocratically entempled in
                        that graceful, slender, ultra-feminine body of Margaret
                        Severence's, as she descended the stairs, putting fresh gloves upon
                        her beautiful, idle hands, he would have borrowed wings of the wind and
                        would have fled as from a gorgon.
                    But as she entered the room nothing could have seemed less formidable except
                        to the heart. Her spring dress — she was wearing it for the first
                        time — was of a pale green, suggesting the draperies of islands of
                        enchantment. Its lines coincided with the lines of her figure. Her hat,
                        trimmed to match, formed a magic halo for her hair; and it, in turn, was the
                        entrancing frame in which her small, quiet, pallid face was set —
                             that delicate, sensitive face, from which
                        shone, now softly and now brilliantly, those hazel eyes a painter could have
                        borrowed for a wood nymph. In the doorway, before greeting him, she
                        paused.
                    "Williams," she called, and Craig was thrilled by her
                        "high-bred" accent, that seemed to him to make of the
                        English language a medium different from the one he used and heard out
                        home.
                    "Yes, ma'am," came the answer in the
                        subtly-deferential tone of the aristocracy of menialdom, conjuring for
                        Craig, with the aid of the woman herself and that aristocratic old room, a
                        complete picture of the life of upper-class splendor.
                    "Did you order the carriage, as I asked?"
                    "Yes, ma'am; it's at the door."
                    "Thank you." And Margaret turned upon an overwhelmed and
                        dazzled Craig. He did not dream that she had calculated it all with a view
                        to impressing him — and, if he had, the effect would hardly have
                        been lessened. Whether planned or not, were not toilette and accent, and
                        butler and carriage, all realities? Nor did he suspect shrewd calculations
                        upon snobbishness when she said: "I was in such haste to dress that
                        I hurt my poor maid's hand as she was lacing my boot"
                        — she thrust out one slender, elegantly-clad foot
                        —"no, but  toning it, I
                        mean." Oh, these ladies, these ladies of the new world —
                        and the old — that are so used to maids and carriages and being
                        waited upon that they no more think of display in connection with them than
                        one would think of boasting two legs or two eyes!
                    The advantage from being in the act of putting on gloves began at the very
                        outset. It helped to save her from deciding a mode of salutation. She did
                        not salute him at all. It made the meeting a continuation, without break, of
                        their previous meeting.
                    "How do you like my new dress?" she asked, as she drew the
                        long part of her glove up her round, white arm.
                    "Beautiful," he stammered.
                    From the hazel eyes shot a shy-bold glance straight into his; it was as if
                        those slim, taper fingers of hers had twanged the strings of the lyre of his
                        nerves. "You despise all this sort of trumpery, don't
                        you?"
                    "Sometimes a man says things he don't mean," he
                        found tongue to utter.
                    "I understand," said she sympathetically, and he knew she
                        meant his note. But he was too overwhelmed by his surroundings, by her
                        envelope of aristocracy, too fascinated by her physical charm, too flattered
                        by being on such terms with such a personage, to venture to set  her right. Also, she gave him little chance;
                        for in almost the same breath she went on: "I've been in
                        such moods! — since yesterday afternoon — like the devils
                        in Milton, isn't it? — that are swept from lands of ice to
                        lands of fire? — or is it in Dante? I never can remember. We must
                        go straight off, for I'm late. You can come, too —
                        it's only a little meeting about some charity or other. All rich
                        people, of course — except poor me. I'm sure I
                        don't know why they asked me. I can give little besides advice. How
                        handsome you are to-day, Joshua!"
                    It was the first time she had called him by his first name. She repeated it
                        — "Joshua — Joshua" — as when
                        one hits upon some particularly sweet and penetrating chord at the piano,
                        and strikes it again, and yet again.
                    They were in the carriage, being whirled toward the great palace of Mrs.
                        Whitson, the latest and grandest of plutocratic monuments that have arisen
                        upon the ruins of the old, old-fashioned American Washington. And she talked
                        incessantly — a limpid, sparkling, joyous strain. And either her
                        hand sought his or his hers; at any rate, he found himself holding her hand.
                        They were almost there before he contrived to say, very falteringly:
                        "You got my note?"
                    
                    She laughed gayly. "Oh, yes — and your own answer to it,
                        Joshua — my love"— the "my
                        love" in a much lower, softer tone, with suggestion of sudden tears
                        trembling to fall.
                    "But I meant it," he said, though in tones little like any
                        he was used to hearing from his own lips. But he would not dare look himself
                        in the face again if he did not make at least a wriggle before
                        surrendering.
                    "We mean many things in as many moods," said she.
                        "I knew it was only a mood. I knew you'd come.
                        I've such a sense of implicit reliance on you. You are to me like
                        the burr that shields the nut from all harm. How secure and cozy and happy
                        the nut must feel in its burr. As I've walked through the woods in
                        the autumn I've often thought of that, and how, if I ever
                        married—"
                    A wild impulse to seize her and crush her, as one crushes the ripe berry for
                        its perfume and taste, flared in his eyes. She drew away to check it.
                        "Not now," she murmured, and her quick breath and flush
                        were not art, but nature. "Not just now —
                        Joshua."
                    "You make me — insane," he muttered between his
                        teeth. "God! — I do love
                        you!"
                    They were arrived; were descending. And she led him, abject and in chains,
                        into the presence of Mrs.  Whitson and the
                        most fashionable of the fashionable set. "So you've
                        brought him along?" cried Mrs. Whitson. "Well, I
                        congratulate you, Mr. Craig. It's very evident you have a shrewd
                        eye for the prizes of life, and a strong, long reach to grasp
                        them."
                    Craig, red and awkward, laughed hysterically, flung out a few meaningless
                        phrases. Margaret murmured: "Perhaps you'd rather
                        go?" She wished him to go, now that she had exhibited him.
                    "Yes — for Heaven's sake!" he exclaimed.
                        He was clutching for his braggart pretense of ease in "high
                        society" like a drowning man scooping armsful of elusive water.
                    She steered her captive in her quiet, easeful manner toward the door, sent
                        him forth with a farewell glance and an affectionate interrogative,
                        "This afternoon, at half-past four?" that could not be
                        disobeyed.
                    The mutiny was quelled. The mutineer was in irons. She had told him she felt
                        quite sure about him; and it was true, in a sense rather different from what
                        the words had conveyed to him. But it was of the kind of security that takes
                        care to keep the eye wakeful and the powder dry. She felt she did not have
                        him yet where she could trust him out of her sight and could herself decide
                        whether the engagement was to be kept or broken.
                    
                    "Why, my dear," said Mrs. Whitson, "he positively
                        feeds out of your hand! And such a wild man he seemed!"
                    Margaret, in the highest of high spirits, laughed with pleasure.
                    "A good many," pursued Mrs. Whitson, "think you
                        are throwing yourself away for love. But as I size men up — and my
                        husband says I'm a wonder at it — I think he'll
                        be biggest figure of all at one end of Pennsylvania Avenue or the other.
                        Perhaps, first one end, then at the other."
                    "I'm glad to hear you say that," cried Margaret,
                        with the keen enthusiasm with which, in time of doubt, we welcome an ally to
                        our own private judgment. "But," she hastened to add, with
                        veiled eye and slightly tremulous lip, "I'm ready to take
                        whatever comes."
                    "That's right! That's right!" exclaimed
                        Mrs. Whitson, a tender and dreamy sentimentalist except in her own affairs.
                        "Love is best!"
                    "Love is best," echoed Margaret.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIII
                    A MEMORABLE MEETING
                    In that administration the man "next" the President was his
                        Secretary of the Treasury, John Branch, cold and smooth and able, secreting,
                        in his pale-gray soul, an icy passion for power more relentless than heat
                        ever bred. To speak of him as unscrupulous would be like attributing moral
                        quality to a reptile. For him principle did not exist, except as an
                        eccentricity of some strangely-constructed men which might be used to keep
                        them down. Life presented itself to him as a series of mathematical
                        problems, as an examination in mathematics. To pass it meant a diploma as a
                        success; to fail to pass meant the abysmal disgrace of obscurity. Cheating
                        was permissible, but not to get caught at it. Otherwise Branch was the most
                        amiable of men; and why should he not have been, his digestion being good,
                        his income sufficient, his domestic relations admirable, and his reputation
                        for ability growing apace? No one respected him, no one liked him; but every
                        one admired  him as an intellect moving quite
                        unhampered of the restraints of conscience. In person he was rather
                        handsome, the weasel type of his face being well concealed by fat and by
                        judicious arrangements of mustache and side-whiskers. By profession he was a
                        lawyer, and had been most successful as adviser to wholesale thieves on
                        depredations bent or in search of immunity for depredations done. It was
                        incomprehensible to him why he was unpopular with the masses. It irritated
                        him that they could not appreciate his purely abstract point of view on
                        life; it irritated him because his unpopularity with them meant that there
                        were limits, and very narrow ones, to his ambition.
                    It was to John Branch that Madam Bowker applied when she decided that Joshua
                        Craig must be driven from Washington. She sent for him, and he came
                        promptly. He liked to talk to her because she was one of the few who
                        thoroughly appreciated and sympathized with his ideas of success in life.
                        Also, he respected her as a personage in Washington, and had it in mind to
                        marry his daughter, as soon as she should be old enough, to one of her
                        grandnephews.
                    "Branch," said the old lady, with an emphatic wave of the
                        ebony staff, "I want that Craig man sent away from
                        Washington."
                    
                    "Josh, the joke?" said Branch with a slow, sneering smile
                        that had an acidity in it interesting in one so even as he.
                    "That's the man. I want you to rid us of him. He has been
                        paying attention to Margaret, and she is encouraging him."
                    "Impossible!" declared Branch. "Margaret is a
                        sensible girl and Josh has nothing — ever will have
                        anything."
                    "A mere politician!" declared Madam Bowker. "Like
                        hundreds of others that wink in with each administration and wink out with
                        it. He will not succeed even at his own miserable political game —
                        and, if he did, he would still be poor as poverty."
                    "I don't think you need worry about him and Margaret. I
                        repeat, she is sensible — an admirable girl — admirably
                        brought up. She has distinction. She has the right instincts."
                    Madam Bowker punctuated each of these compliments with a nod of her haughty
                        head. "But," said she, "Craig has convinced her
                        that he will amount to something."
                    "Ridiculous!" scoffed Branch, with an airy wave of the
                        hand. But there was in his tone a concealment that set the shrewd old lady
                        furtively to watching him.
                    
                    "What do they think of him among the public men?" inquired
                        she.
                    "He's laughed at there as everywhere."
                    Her vigilance was rewarded; as Branch said that, malignance hissed, ever so
                        softly, in his suave voice, and the snake peered furtively from his calm,
                        cold eyes. Old Madam Bowker had not lived at Washington's great
                        green tables for the gamblers of ambition all those years without learning
                        the significance of eyes and tone. For one politician to speak thus
                        venomously of another was sure sign that that other was of consequence; for
                        John Branch, a very Machiavelli at self-concealment and usually too
                        egotistic to be jealous, thus to speak, and that, without being able to
                        conceal his venom — "Can it be possible," thought
                        the old lady, "that this Craig is about to be a somebody?"
                        Aloud she said: "He is a preposterous creature. The vilest manners
                        I've seen in three generations of Washington life. And what vanity,
                        what assumptions! The first time I met him he lectured me as if I were a
                        schoolgirl — lectured me about the idle, worthless life he said I
                        lead. I decided not to recognize him next time I saw him. Up he came, and
                        without noticing that I did not speak he poured out such insults that I was
                        answering him before I realized it."
                    
                    "He certainly is a most exasperating person."
                    "So Western! The very worst the West ever sent us. I don't
                        understand how he happened to get about among decent people. Oh, I remember,
                        it was Grant Arkwright who did it. Grant picked him up on one of his
                        shooting trips."
                    "He is insufferable," said Branch.
                    "You must see that the President gets rid of him. I want it done at
                        once. I assure you, John, my alarm is not imaginary. Margaret is very young,
                        has a streak of sentimentality in her. Besides, you know how weak the
                        strongest women are before a determined assault. If the other sex
                        wasn't brought up to have a purely imaginary fear of them I
                        don't know what would become of the world."
                    Branch smiled appreciatively but absently. "The same is true of
                        men," said he. "The few who amount to anything —
                        at least in active life — base their calculations on the timidity
                        and folly of their fellows rather than upon their own abilities. About Craig
                        — I'd like to oblige you, but — well, you see,
                        there is — there are certain political exigencies
                        —"
                    "Nonsense!" interrupted the old lady. "I know the
                        relative importance of officials. A mere understrapper like Craig is of no
                        importance."
                    
                    "The fact is," said Branch with great reluctance,
                        "the President has taken a fancy to Craig."
                    Branch said it as if he hardly expected to be believed — and he
                        wasn't. "To be perfectly frank," he went on,
                        "you know the President, how easily alarmed he is. He's
                        afraid Craig may, by some crazy turn of this crazy game of politics, develop
                        into a Presidential possibility. Of course, it's quite absurd,
                        but—"
                    "The more reason for getting rid of him."
                    "The contrary. The President probably reasons that, if Craig has any
                        element of danger in him the nearer he keeps him to himself the better.
                        Craig, back in the West, would be free to grow. Here the President can keep
                        him down if necessary. And I think our friend Stillwater will succeed in
                        entangling him disastrously in some case sooner or later." There
                        Branch laughed pleasantly, as at the finding of the correct solution to a
                        puzzling problem in analytics or calculus.
                    "What a cowardly, shadow-fighting, shadow-dodging set you men
                        are!" commented Madam Bowker. Though she did not show it, as a man
                        certainly would, her brain was busy with a wholly different phase of the
                        matter they were discussing.
                    "Isn't Stillwater going to retire?" she asked
                        presently.
                    
                    Branch startled. "Where did you hear that?" he
                        demanded.
                    The old lady smiled. "There are no secrets in Washington,"
                        said she. "Who will be his successor?"
                    Branch's cold face showed annoyance. "You mustn't
                        speak of it," replied he, "but the President is actually
                        thinking of appointing Craig — in case the vacancy should occur. Of
                        course, I am trying to make him see the folly of such a proceeding, but
                        — You are right. Men are cowards. That insufferable upstart is
                        actually bullying the President into a state of terror. Already he has
                        compelled him to prosecute some of our best friends out in the Western
                        country, and if the Courts weren't with us —"
                        Branch checked himself abruptly. It was not the first time he had caught
                        himself yielding to Washington's insidious custom of rank gossip
                        about everything and everybody; but it was about his worst offense in that
                        direction. "I'm getting to be as leaky as Josh Craig is
                        — as he seems to be," he muttered, so
                        low, however, that not even her sharp ears caught it.
                    "So it is to be Attorney-General Craig," said the old lady,
                        apparently abstracted but in reality catlike in watchfulness, and noting
                        with secret pleasure Branch's anger at this explicit statement of
                        the triumph of his hated rival.
                    
                    "Isn't it frightful?" said Branch. "What
                        is the country coming to?"
                    But she had lost interest in the conversation. She rid herself of Branch as
                        speedily as the circumstances permitted. She wished to be alone, to revolve
                        the situation slowly from the new viewpoint which Branch, half-unconsciously
                        and wholly reluctantly, had opened up. She had lived a long time, had
                        occupied a front bench overlooking one of the world's chief arenas
                        of action. And, as she had an acute if narrow mind, she had learned to judge
                        intelligently and to note those little signs that are, to the intelligent,
                        the essentials, full of significance. She had concealed her amazement from
                        Branch, but amazed she was, less at his news of Craig as a personage full of
                        potentiality than at her own failure, through the inexcusable, manlike
                        stupidity of personal pique, to discern the real man behind his mannerisms.
                        "No wonder he has pushed so far, so fast," reflected she;
                        for she appreciated that in a man of action manners should always be a cloak
                        behind which his real campaign forms. It must be a fitting cloak, it should
                        be a becoming one; but always a cloak. "He fools everybody,
                        apparently," thought she. "The results of his secret work
                        alarm them; then, along he comes, with his braggart, offensive manners, his
                        childish posings, his peacock vanity, and 
                        they are lulled into false security. They think what he did was an accident
                        that will not happen again. Why, he fooled even me!"
                    
                    That is always, with every human being, the supreme test, necessarily.
                        Usually it means nothing. In this case of Cornelia Bowker it meant a great
                        deal; for Cornelia Bowker was not easily fooled. The few who appear in the
                        arena of ambition with no game to play, with only sentiment and principle to
                        further, the few who could easily have fooled her cynical, worldly wisdom
                        could safely be disregarded. She felt it was the part of good sense to look
                        the young man over again, to make sure that the new light upon him was not
                        false light. "He may be a mere accident in spite of his remarkable
                        successes," thought she. "The same number sometimes comes
                        a dozen times in succession at roulette." She sent her handy man,
                        secretary, social manager and organizer, maître
                            d'hôtel, companion, scout, gossip, purveyor of comfort, J.
                        Worthington Whitesides, to seek out Craig and to bring him before her
                        forthwith.
                    As Mr. Whitesides was a tremendous swell, in dress, in manner and in accent,
                        Craig was much impressed when he came into his office in the Department of
                        Justice. Whitesides' manner, the result of Madam Bowker's
                        personal teaching, was one of his chief assets in maintaining  and extending her social power. It gave the
                        greatest solemnity and dignity to a summons from her, filled the recipient
                        with pleasure and with awe, prepared him or her to be duly impressed and in
                        a frame of mind suitable to Madam Bowker's purposes.
                    "I come from Madam Bowker," he explained to Craig, humbly
                        conscious of his own disarray and toiler's unkemptness.
                        "She would be greatly obliged if you will give her a few minutes of
                        your time. She begs you to excuse the informality. She has sent me in her
                        carriage, and it will be a great satisfaction to her if you will accompany
                        me."
                    Craig's first impulse of snobbish satisfaction was immediately
                        followed by misgivings. Perhaps this was not the formal acceptance of the
                        situation by the terrible old woman as he had, on the spur, fancied. Perhaps
                        she had sent for him to read him the riot act. Then be remembered that he
                        was himself in doubt as to whether he wished to marry the young woman. All
                        his doubts came flooding back, and his terrors — for, in some of
                        its aspects, the idea of being married to this delicate flower of
                        conventionality and gentle breeding was literally a terror to him. If he
                        went he would be still further committing himself; all Washington would soon
                        know of the journey in the carriage of Madam Bowker, the  most imposing car of state that appeared in
                        the streets of the Capital, a vast, lofty affair, drawn by magnificent
                        horses, the coachman and footman in costly, quiet livery, high
                        ensconced.
                    "No, thanks," said Josh, in his most bustlingly-bounderish
                        manner. "Tell the old lady I'm up to my neck in
                        work."
                    Mr. Whitesides was taken aback, but he was far too polished a gentleman to
                        show it. "Perhaps later?" he suggested.
                    "I've promised Margaret to go out there later. If I get
                        through here in time I'll look in on Mrs. Bowker on the way. But
                        tell her not to wait at home for me."
                    Mr. Whitesides bowed, and was glad when the outer air was blowing off him the
                        odor of this vulgar incident. "For," said he to himself,
                        "there are some manners so bad that they have a distinct bad smell.
                        He is `the limit!' The little Severence must be infernally
                        hard-pressed to think of taking him on. Poor child! She's devilish
                        interesting. A really handsome bit, and smart, too — excellent
                        ideas about dress. Yet somehow she's been marooned, overlooked,
                        while far worse have been married well. Strange, that sort of thing.
                        Some-what my own case. I ought to have been able to get some girl with a
                        bunch, yet I somehow always just failed  to
                        connect—until I got beyond the marrying age. Devilish lucky for me,
                        too. I'm no end better off." And Mr. Whitesides, sitting
                        correctly upon Madam Bowker's gray silk cushions, reflected
                        complacently upon his ample salary, his carefully built-up and most
                        lucrative commissions, his prospects for a "smashing-good legacy
                        when her majesty deigns to pass away."
                    At four Madam Bowker, angry yet compelled to a certain respect, heard with
                        satisfaction that Craig had come. "Leave me, Whitesides,"
                        said she. "I wish to be quite alone with him
                        throughout."
                    Thus Craig, entering the great, dim drawing-room, with its panel paintings
                        and its lofty, beautifully-frescoed ceiling, found himself alone with her.
                        She was throned upon a large, antique gold chair, ebony scepter in one hand,
                        the other hand white and young-looking and in fine relief against the black
                        silk of her skirt; she bent upon him a keen, gracious look. Her hazel eyes
                        were bright as a bird's; they had the advantage over a
                        bird's that they saw — saw everything in addition to
                        seeming to see.
                    Looking at him she saw a figure whose surfaces were, indeed, not
                        extraordinarily impressive. Craig's frame was good; that was
                        apparent despite his clothes. He had  powerful
                        shoulders, not narrow, yet neither were they of the broad kind that suggest
                        power to the inexpert and weakness and a tendency to lung trouble to the
                        expert. His body was a trifle long for his arms and legs, which were thick
                        and strong, like a lion's or a tiger's. He had a fine
                        head, haughtily set; his eyes emphasized the impression of arrogance and
                        force. He had the leader's beaklike nose, a handsome form of it,
                        like Alexander's, not like Attila's. The mouth was the
                        orator's — wide, full and flexible of lips, fluent. It was
                        distinctly not an aristocratic mouth. It suggested common speech and common
                        tastes — ruddy tastes — tastes for quantity rather than
                        for quality. His skin, his flesh were also plainly not aristocratic; they
                        lacked that fineness of grain, that finish of surface which are got only by
                        eating the costly, rare, best and best-prepared food. His hair, a partially
                        disordered mop overhanging his brow at the middle, gave him fierceness of
                        aspect. The old lady had more than a suspicion that the ferocity of that
                        lock of hair and somewhat exaggerated forward thrust of the jaw were pose
                        — in part, at least, an effort to look the valiant and relentless
                        master of men — perhaps concealing a certain amount of
                        irresolution. Certainly those eyes met here boldly rather than
                        fearlessly.
                    
                    She extended her hand. He took it, and with an effort gave it the
                        politician's squeeze — the squeeze that makes Hiram Hanks
                        and Bill Butts grin delightedly and say to each other:
                        "B'gosh, he ain't lost his axe-handle grip yet,
                        by a durn sight, has he? — dog-gone him!"
                    Madam Bowker did not wince, though she felt like it. Instead she
                        smiled—a faint, derisive smile that made Craig color
                        uncomfortably.
                    "You young man," said she in her cool, high-bred tones,
                        "you wish to marry my granddaughter."
                    Craig was never more afraid nor so impressed in his life. But there was no
                        upflaming of physical passion here to betray him into yielding before her as
                        he had before her granddaughter. "I do not," replied he
                        arrogantly. "Your granddaughter wants to marry me."
                    Madam Bowker winced in spite of herself. A very sturdy-appearing specimen of
                        manhood was this before her; she could understand how her granddaughter
                        might be physically attracted. But that rude accent, that common mouth,
                        those uncouth clothes, hand-me-downs or near it, that cheap look about the
                        collar, about the wrists, about the ankles—
                    "We are absolutely unsuited to each other — in every
                        way," continued Craig. "I tell her so. But she
                        won't listen to me. The only reason I've come here is to
                        ask  you to take a hand at trying to bring her
                        to her senses."
                    The old lady, recovered from her first shock, gazed at him admiringly. He had
                        completely turned her flank, and by a movement as swift as it was
                        unexpected. If she opposed the engagement he could hail her as an ally,
                        could compel her to contribute to her own granddaughter's public
                        humiliation. On the other hand, if she accepted the engagement he would have
                        her and Margaret and all the proud Severence family in the position of
                        humbly seeking alliance with him. Admirable! No wonder Branch was jealous
                        and the President alarmed. "Your game," said she
                        pleasantly, "is extremely unkempt, but effective. I congratulate
                        you. I owe you an apology for having misjudged you."
                    He gave her a shrewd look. "I know little Latin and less
                        Greek," said he, "but, `timeo Danaos dona
                        ferentes.' And I've got no game. I'm telling you
                        the straight truth, and I want you to help save me from Margaret and from
                        myself. I love the girl. I honestly don't want to make her
                        wretched. I need a sock-darner, a wash-counter, a pram-pusher, for a wife,
                        as Grant would say, not a dainty piece of lace embroidery. It would soon be
                        covered with spots and full of holes from the rough wear I'd give
                        it."
                    Madam Bowker laughed heartily. "You are —
                        delicious,"  said she. "You
                        state the exact situation. Only I don't think Rita is quite so
                        fragile as you fancy. Like all persons of common origin, Mr. Craig, you
                        exaggerate human differences. They are not differences of kind, but of
                        degree."
                    Craig quivered and reddened at "common origin," as Madam
                        Bowker expected and hoped. She had not felt that she was taking a risk in
                        thus hardily ignoring her own origin; Lard had become to her, as to all
                        Washington, an unreality like a shadowy reminiscence of a possible former
                        sojourn on earth. "I see," pursued she, "that I
                        hurt your vanity by my frankness—"
                    "Not at all! Not at all!" blustered Joshua, still angrier
                        — as Madam Bowker had calculated.
                    "Don't misunderstand me," pursued she tranquilly.
                        "I was simply stating a fact without aspersion. It is the more to
                        your credit that you have been able to raise yourself up among us —
                        and so very young! You are not more than forty, are you?"
                    "Thirty-four," said Craig surlily. He began to feel like a
                        cur that is getting a beating from a hand beyond the reach of its fangs.
                        "I've had a hard life—"
                    "So I should judge," thrust the old lady with gentle
                        sympathy. It is not necessary to jab violently with a red-hot iron in order
                        to make a deep burn.
                    
                    "But I am the better for it," continued Craig, eyes
                        flashing and orator lips in action. "And you and your kind
                        — your granddaughter Margaret — would be the better for
                        having faced — for having to face — the realities of life
                        instead of being pampered in luxury and uselessness."
                    "Then why be resentful?" inquired she. "Why not
                        merely pity us? Why this heat and seeming jealousy?"
                    "Because I love your granddaughter," replied Craig, the
                        adroit at debate. "It pains, it angers me to see a girl who might
                        have been a useful wife, a good mother, trained and set to such base
                        uses."
                    The old lady admired his skillful parry. "Let us not discuss
                        that," said she. "We look at life from different points of
                        view. No human being can see beyond his own point of view. Only God sees
                        life as a whole, sees how its seeming inconsistencies and injustices blend
                        into a harmony. Your mistake — pardon an old woman's
                        criticism of experience upon inexperience — your mistake is that
                        you arrogate to yourself divine wisdom and set up a personal opinion as
                        eternal truth."
                    "That is very well said, admirably said," cried Craig.
                        Madam Bowker would have been better pleased with the compliment had the tone
                        been less gracious and less condescending.
                    
                    "To return to the main subject," continued she.
                        "Your hesitation about my granddaughter does credit to your
                        manliness and to your sense. I have known marriages between people of
                        different station and rank to turn out well —
                        again—"
                    "That's the second or third time you've made that
                        insinuation," burst out Craig. "I must protest against it,
                        in the name of my father and mother, in the name of my country, Mrs. Bowker.
                        It is too ridiculous! Who are you that you talk about rank and station? What
                        is Margaret but the daughter of a plain human being of a father, a little
                        richer than mine and so a little nearer opportunities for education? The
                        claims to superiority of some of the titled people on the other side are
                        silly enough when one examines them — the records of knavery and
                        thievery and illegitimacy and insanity. But similar claims over here are
                        laughable at a glance. The reason I hesitate to marry your daughter is not
                        to her credit, or to her parents' credit — or to
                        yours."
                    Madam Bowker was beside herself with rage at these candid insults, flung at
                        her with all Craig's young energy and in his most effective manner;
                        for his crudeness disappeared when he spoke thus, as the blackness and
                        roughness of the coal vanish in the furnace heat, transforming it into
                        beauty and grace of flames.
                    
                    "Do I make myself clear?" demanded Craig, his eyes flashing
                        superbly upon her.
                    "You certainly do," snapped the old lady, her dignity
                        tottering and a very vulgar kind of human wrath showing uglily in her
                        blazing eyes and twitching nose and mouth and fingers.
                    "Then let us have no more of this caste nonsense," said the
                        young man. "Forbid your granddaughter to marry or to see me. Send
                        or take her away. She will thank you a year from now. My thanks will begin
                        from the moment of release."
                    "Yes, you have made yourself extremely clear," said Madam
                        Bowker in a suffocating voice. To be thus defied, insulted, outraged, in her
                        own magnificent salon, in her own magnificent presence! "You may be
                        sure you will have no further opportunity to exploit your upstart insolence
                        in my family. Any chance you may have had for the alliance you have so
                        cunningly sought is at an end." And she waved her ebony scepter in
                        dismissal, ringing the bell at the same time.
                    Craig drew himself up, bowed coldly and haughtily, made his exit in excellent
                        style; no prince of the blood, bred to throne rooms, no teacher of etiquette
                        in a fashionable boarding-school could have done better.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIV
                    MAGGIE AND JOSH
                    Wrath is a baseless flame in the intelligent aged; also, Margaret's
                        grandmother was something more than a mere expert in social craft, would
                        have been woman of the world had not circumstances compressed her to its
                        petty department of fashionable society. Before Craig had cleared the front
                        door she was respecting him, even as she raged against him. Insolent,
                        impudent, coarsely insulting —yes, all these. But very much a man,
                        a masculine force; with weaknesses, it was true, and his full measure of the
                        low-sprung's obsequious snobbishness; but, for all that, strong,
                        persistent, concentrated, one who knew the master-art of making his
                        weaknesses serve as pitfalls into which his enemies were lured, to fall
                        victim to his strength.
                    "Yes, he will arrive," reflected Madam Bowker.
                        "Branch will yet have to serve him. Poor Branch! What a misery for
                        a man to be born with a master's mind but with the lack of will and
                        courage that keeps a man a servant. Yes, Craig will arrive! . . . What a
                        pity he has no money."
                    
                    But, on second thought, that seemed less a disadvantage. If she should let
                        him marry Margaret they would be dependent upon her; she could control them
                        —him—through holding the purse strings. And when that
                        remote time came at which it would please God to call her from her earthly
                        labors to their eternal reward, she could transfer the control to Margaret.
                        "Men of his origin are always weak on the social side,"
                        she reflected. "And it wouldn't be in nature for a person
                        as grasping of power as he is not to be eager about money
                        also."
                    With the advent of plutocratic fashion respect for official position had
                        dwindled at Washington. In Rome in the days when the imperators became mere
                        creatures of the army, the seat of fashion and of power was transferred to
                        the old and rich families aloof from the government and buying peace and
                        privilege from it. So Washington's fashionable society has come to
                        realize, even more clearly than does the rest of the country, that, despite
                        spasmodic struggles and apparent spurts of reaction, power has passed to the
                        plutocracy, and that officialdom is, as a rule, servant verging toward
                        slave. Still, form is a delusion of tenacious hold upon the human mind. The
                        old lady's discoveries of Craig's political prospects did
                        not warm her toward him as would  news that he
                        was in the way of being vastly rich; but she retained enough of the fading
                        respect for high-titled office to feel that he was not the quite
                        impossibility she had fancied, but was fit to be an aspirant for an
                        aristocratic alliance.
                    "If Margaret doesn't fall in love with him after she
                        marries him," reflected she, "all may be well. Of course,
                        if she does she'll probably ruin him and herself, too. But I think
                        she'll have enough sense of her position, of how to maintain it for
                        herself, and for him and her children, not to be a fool."
                    Meanwhile Craig was also cooling down. He had meant every word he said
                        — while he was saying it. Only one self-convinced could have been
                        so effective. But, sobering off from his rhetorical debauch in the quiet
                        streets of that majestic quarter, he began to feel that he had gone farther,
                        much farther, than he intended.
                    "I don't see how, in self-respect, I could have said
                        less," thought he. "And surely the old woman
                        isn't so lost to decency that she can't appreciate and
                        admire self-respect."
                    Still he might have spoken less harshly; might have been a little considerate
                        of the fact that he was not making a stump speech, but was in the
                        drawing-room  of a high-born, high-bred lady.
                        "And gad, she is a patrician!"
                    His eyes were surveying the splendid mansions round about — the
                        beautiful window-gardens — the curtains at the windows, which he
                        had learned were real lace, whatever that might be, and most expensive. Very
                        fine, that way of living! Very comfortable, to have servants at beck and
                        call, and most satisfactory to the craving for power — trifles, it
                        is true, but still the substantial and tangible evidence of power.
                        "And it impresses the people, too. We're all snobs at
                        bottom. We're not yet developed enough to appreciate such a lofty
                        abstraction as democracy."
                    True, Margaret was not rich; but the old grandmother was. Doubtless, if he
                        managed her right, she would see to it that he and Margaret had some such
                        luxury as these grandly-housed people—"but not too much,
                        for that would interfere with my political program." He did not
                        protest this positively; the program seemed, for the moment, rather vague
                        and not very attractive. The main point seemed to be money and the right
                        sort of position among the right sort of people. He shook himself, scowled,
                        muttered: "I am a damn fool! What do I amount to
                        except as I rise in polities and stay risen? I must be mighty careful or
                        I'll lose my  point of view and
                        become a wretched hanger-on at the skirts of these fakers. For they are
                        fakers — frauds of the first water! Take their accidental money
                        away from them and they'd sink to be day laborers, most of
                        them—and not of much account there."
                    He was sorely perplexed; he did not know what to do — what he ought
                        to do — even what he wanted to do. One thing seemed clear
                        — that he had gone further than was necessary in antagonizing the
                        old woman. Whether he wanted to marry the girl or not, he certainly did not
                        wish, at this stage of the game, to make it impossible. The wise plan was to
                        leave the situation open in every direction, so that he could freely advance
                        or freely retreat as unfolding events might dictate. So he turned in the
                        direction of the Severence house, walked at his usual tearing pace, arrived
                        there somewhat wilted of collar and exceedingly dusty of shoe and
                        trouser-leg.
                    Greater physical contrast could hardly have been than that between him and
                        Margaret, descending to him in the cool garden where he was mopping himself
                        and dusting his shoes, all with the same handkerchief. She was in a graceful
                        walking costume of pale blue, scrupulously neat, perfect to the smallest
                        detail. As she advanced she observed him with eyes that nothing  escaped; and being in one of her exquisite
                        moods, when the senses are equally quick to welcome the agreeable or to
                        shrink from the disagreeable, she had a sense of physical repugnance. He saw
                        her the instant she came out of the house. Her dress, its harmony with her
                        delicateness of feature and coloring, the gliding motion of her form
                        combined to throw him instantly into a state of intoxication. He rushed
                        toward her; she halted, shivered, shrank. "Don't
                        — look at me like that!" she exclaimed half under her
                        breath.
                    "And why not? Aren't you mine?" And he seized her,
                        enwrapped her in his arms, pressed his lips firmly upon her hair, her cheek
                        —upon her lips. There he lingered; her eyes closed, her form, he
                        felt, was yielding within his embrace as though she were about to faint.
                    "Don't—please," she murmured, when he let
                        her catch her breath. "I—I—can't bear
                        it."
                    "Do you love me?" he cried passionately.
                    "Let me go!" She struggled futilely in his plowman
                        arms.
                    "Say you love me!"
                    "If you don't let me go I shall hate you!"
                    "I see I shall have to kiss you until you do love me."
                    "Yes — yes — whatever you wish me to
                        say," she  cried, suddenly freeing
                        herself by dodging most undignifiedly out of his arms.
                    She stood a little way from him, panting, as was he. She frowned fiercely,
                        then her eyes softened, became tender—just why she could not have
                        explained. "What a dirty boy it is!" she said softly.
                        "Go into the house and ask Williams to take you where you can make
                        yourself presentable."
                    "Not I," said he, dropping into a seat. "Come, sit
                        here beside me."
                    She laughed; obeyed. She even made several light passes at his wet mop of
                        hair. She wondered why it was that she liked to touch him, where a few
                        minutes before she had shrunk from it.
                    "I've just been down telling that old grandmother of yours
                        what I thought of her," said he.
                    She startled. "How did you happen to go there?" she
                        exclaimed. She forgot herself so completely that she added imperiously:
                        "I wanted you to keep away from her until I was ready for you to
                        go."
                    "She sent for me," apologized he. "I went. We came
                        together with a bang. She told me I wanted to marry you; I told her you wanted to marry me. She told me I
                        was low; I told her she was a fraud. She said I was insolent; I said
                        good-afternoon. If I hadn't  marched
                        out rather quickly I guess she'd have had me thrown
                        out."
                    Margaret was sitting stone-still, her hands limp in her lap.
                    "So you see it's all up," continued he, with a
                        curious air of bravado, patently insincere. "And it's just
                        as well. You oughtn't to marry me. It's a crime for me to
                        have permitted things to go this far."
                    "Perhaps you are right," replied she slowly and
                        thoughtfully. "Perhaps you are right."
                    He made one of his exclamatory gestures, a swift jerk around of the head
                        toward her. He had all he could do to restrain himself from protesting,
                        without regard to his pretenses to himself and to her. "Do you mean
                        that, Maggie?" be asked with more appeal in his voice than he was
                        conscious of.
                    "Never call me that again!" she cried.
                        "It's detestable —so common!"
                    He drew back as if she had struck him. "I beg your pardon,"
                        he said with gentle dignity. "I shall not do it again. Maggie was
                        my mother's name —what she was always called at
                        home."
                    She turned her eyes toward him with a kind of horror in them. "Oh,
                        forgive me!" she begged, her clasped hands upon his arm.
                        "I didn't mean it at all — not at  all. It is I that am detestable and common. I
                        spoke that way because I was irritated about something else." She
                        laid one hand caressingly against his cheek. "You must always call
                        me Maggie—when — when "—very
                        softly—" you love me very, very much. I like you to have a
                        name for me that nobody else has."
                    He seized her hands. "You do care for me,
                        don't you?" he cried.
                    She hesitated. "I don't quite know," said she.
                        Then, less seriously: "Not at all, I'm sure, when you talk
                        of breaking the engagement. I wish you hadn't
                        seen grandmother!"
                    "I wish so, too," confessed he. "I made an ass of
                        myself."
                    She glanced at him quickly. "Why do you say that?"
                    "I don't know," he stammered confusedly. How could
                        he tell her?
                    "A moment ago you seemed well pleased with what you'd
                        done."
                    "Well, I guess I went too far. I wasn't very
                        polite."
                    "You never are."
                    "I'm going to try to do better. . . . No, I don't
                        think it would be wise for me to go and apologize to her."
                    
                    She was looking at him strangely. "Why are you so anxious to
                        conciliate her?"
                    He saw what a break he had made, became all at once red and inarticulate.
                    "What is she to you?" persisted the girl.
                    "Nothing at all," he blustered. "I don't
                        care —that"—he snapped his
                        fingers —"for her opinion. I don't care if
                        everybody in the world is against our marrying. I want just you—
                        only you."
                    "Obviously," said she with a dry laugh that was highly
                        disconcerting to him. "I certainly have no fortune — or
                        hope of one, so far as I know."
                    This so astounded, so disconcerted him that he forgot to conceal it.
                        "Why, I thought — your grandmother — that is
                        —" He was remembering, was stammering, was unable to
                        finish.
                    "Go on," she urged, obviously enjoying his hot
                        confusion.
                    He became suddenly angry. "Look here, Margaret," he cried,
                        "you don't suspect me of —"
                    She put her fingers on his lips and laughed quietly at him.
                        "You'd better run along now. I'm going to hurry
                        away to grandmother, to try to repair the damage you did." She rose
                        and called, "Lucia! Lucia!"
                    The round, rosy, rather slovenly Miss Severence appeared  in the little balcony — the only part of the house in
                        view from where they sat.
                    "Telephone the stables for the small victoria," called
                        Margaret.
                    "Mother's out in it," replied Lucia.
                    "Then the small brougham."
                    "I want that. Why don't you take the
                        electric?"
                    "All right."
                    Lucia disappeared. Margaret turned upon the deeply-impressed Craig.
                        "What's the matter?" asked she, though she
                        knew.
                    "I can't get used to this carriage business," said
                        he. "I don't like it. Where the private carriage begins
                        just there democracy ends. It is the parting of the ways. People who are
                        driving have to look down; people who aren't have to look
                        up."
                    "Nonsense!" said Margaret, though it seemed to her to be
                        the truth.
                    "Nonsense, of course," retorted Craig. "But
                        nonsense rules the world." He caught her roughly by the arm.
                        "I warn you now, when we—"
                    "Run along, Josh," cried she, extricating herself and
                        laughing, and with a wave of the hand she vanished into the shrubbery. As
                        soon as she was beyond the danger of having to continue that curious
                        conversation she walked  less rapidly.
                        "I wonder what he really thinks," she said to herself.
                        "I wonder what I really think. I suspect we'd both be
                        amazed at ourselves and at each other if we knew."
                    Arrived at her grandmother's she had one more and huger cause for
                        wonder. There were a dozen people in the big salon, the old lady presiding
                        at the tea-table in high good humor. "Ah —here you are,
                        Margaret," cried she. "Why didn't you bring your
                        young man?"
                    "He's too busy for frivolity," replied
                        Margaret.
                    "I saw him this afternoon," continued Madam Bowker, talking
                        aside to her alone when the ripples from the new stone in the pond had died
                        away. "He's what they call a pretty rough customer. But he
                        has his good points."
                    "You liked him better?" said the astonished Margaret.
                    "I disliked him less," corrected the old lady.
                        "He's not a man any one "— this with
                        emphasis and a sharp glance at her granddaughter —" likes.
                        He neither likes nor is liked. He's too much of an ambition for
                        such petty things. People of purpose divide their fellows into two classes,
                        the useful and the useless. They seek allies among the useful, they avoid
                        the useless."
                    
                    Margaret laughed.
                    "Why do you laugh, child? Because you don't believe
                        it?"
                    Margaret sighed. "No, because I don't want to believe
                        it."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XV
                    THE EMBASSY GARDEN PARTY
                    Craig dined at the Secretary of State's that night, and reveled in
                        the marked consideration every one showed him. He knew it was not because of
                        his political successes, present and impending; in the esteem of that
                        fashionable company his success with Margaret overtopped them. And while he
                        was there, drinking more than was good for him and sharing in the general
                        self-complacence, he thought so himself. But waking up about three in the
                        morning, with an aching head and in the depths of the blues, the whole
                        business took on again its grimmest complexion. "I'll talk
                        it over again with Grant," he decided, and was at the Arkwright
                        house a few minutes after eight.
                    It so happened that Grant himself was wakeful that morning and had got up
                        about half-past seven. When Craig came he was letting his valet dress him.
                        He sent for Craig to come up to his dressing-room. "You can talk to
                        me while Walter shaves me," said Grant from the armchair before his
                        dressing table. He was spread out  luxuriously
                        and Josh watched the process of shaving as if he had never seen it before.
                        Indeed, he never had seen a shave in such pomp and circumstance of silver
                        and gold, of ivory and cut glass, of essence and powder.
                    "That's a very ladylike performance for two men to be
                        engaged in," said he.
                    "It's damn comfortable," answered Grant
                        lazily.
                    "When did you get that thing you've got on?"
                    "This gown? Oh, Paris. I get all my things of that sort there.
                        Latterly I get my clothes there, too."
                    "I like that thing," said Craig, giving it a patronizing
                        jerk of his head. "It looks cool and clean. Linen and silk,
                        isn't it? Only I'd choose a more serviceable color than
                        white. And I'd not have a pink silk lining and collar in any
                        circumstances."
                    He wandered about the room.
                    "Goshalimity!" he exclaimed, peering into a drawer.
                        "You must have a million neckties. And" —he was
                        at the partly open door of a huge closet —"here's
                        a whole roomful of shirts — and another of clothes." He
                        wheeled abruptly upon the smiling, highly-flattered tenant of the arm-chair.
                        "Grant, how many suits have you got?"
                    "Blest if I know. How many, Walter?"
                    
                    "I really cannot say, sir. I know 'em all, but I never
                        counted 'em. About seventy or eighty, I should say, not counting
                        extra trousers."
                    Craig looked astounded. "And how many shirts, Walter?"
                    "Oh, several hundred of them, sir. Mr. Grant's most
                        particular about his linen."
                    "And here are boots and shoes and pumps and gaiters and Lord knows
                        what and what not — enough to stock a shoe-store. And umbrellas and
                        canes — Good God, man! How do you carry all that stuff round on
                        your mind?"
                    Grant laughed like a tickled infant. All this was as gratifying to his vanity
                        as applause to Craig's. "Walter looks after it,"
                        said he.
                    Craig lapsed into silence, stared moodily out of the window. The idea of his
                        thinking of marrying a girl of Grant's class! What a ridiculous,
                        loutish figure he would cut in her eyes! Why, not only did he not have the
                        articles necessary to a gentleman's wardrobe, he did not even know
                        the names of them, nor their uses! It was all very well to pretend that
                        these matters were petty. In a sense they were. But that sort of trifles
                        played a most important part in life as it was led by Margaret Severence.
                        She'd not think them trifles. She was probably  assuming that, while he was not quite up to the fashionable
                        standard, still he had a gentleman's equipment of knowledge and of
                        toilet articles. "She'd think me no better than a savage
                        — and, damn it! I'm not much above the savage state, as
                        far as this side of life is concerned."
                    Grant interrupted his mournful musings with: "Now, if
                        you'll excuse me, I'll have my bath."
                    And, Walter following, he went in at a door to the right, through which Craig
                        had a glimpse of marble walls and floor, of various articles of more than
                        Roman luxury. The moments dragged away until half an hour had passed.
                    "What the devil!" Josh called out. "What are you
                        doing all this time?"
                    "Massage," responded Grant. "You can come
                        in."
                    Craig entered the marble chamber, seated himself on a corner of the warmed
                        marble couch on which Grant lay luxuriating in Walter's powerful
                        massage. "Do you go through this thing often?" demanded
                        he.
                    "Every morning—except when I'm roughing it. You
                        ought to take massage, Josh. It's great for the skin."
                    Craig saw that it was. His own skin, aside from his hands and face, was
                        fairly smooth and white; but it was  like
                        sandpaper, he thought, beside this firm, rosy covering of the elegant
                        Arkwright's elegant body. "Get through here and send
                        Walter away," he said harshly. "I want to talk to you. If
                        you don't I'll burst out before him. I can't hold
                        in any longer."
                    "Very well. That'll do, Walter," acquiesced Grant.
                        "And please go and bring us some breakfast. I'll finish
                        dressing afterward."
                    As soon as the door closed on the valet, Craig said. "Grant,
                        I've got myself into a frightful mess. I want you to help me out of
                        it."
                    Grant's eyes shifted. He put on his white silk pajamas, thrust his
                        feet into slippers, tossed the silk-lined linen robe about his broad, too
                        square shoulders, and led the way into the other room. Then he said:
                        "Do you mean Margaret Severence?"
                    "That's it!" exclaimed Craig, pacing the floor.
                        "I've gone and got myself engaged—"
                    "One minute," interrupted Arkwright in a voice so strange
                        that Joshua paused and stared at him. "I can't talk to you
                        about that."
                    "Why not?"
                    "For many reasons. The chief one — Fact is, Josh,
                        I've acted like a howling skunk about you with her. I ran you down
                        to her; tried to get her myself."
                    
                    Craig waved his hand impatiently. "You didn't succeed, did
                        you? And you're ashamed of it, aren't you? Well, if I
                        wasted time going round apologizing for all the things I'd done
                        that I'm ashamed of I'd have no time left to do decently.
                        So that's out of the way. Now, help me."
                    "What a generous fellow you are!"
                    "Generous? Stuff! I need you. We're going to stay friends.
                        You can do what you damn please—I'll like you just the
                        same. I may swat you if you get in my way; but as soon as you were out of it
                        —and that'd be mighty soon and sudden, Grant, old boy
                        —why, I'd be friends again. Come, tell me how I'm
                        to get clear of this engagement."
                    "I can't talk about it to you."
                    "Why not?"
                    "Because I love her."
                    Craig gasped: "Do you mean that?"
                    "I love her — as much as I'm capable of loving
                        anybody. Didn't I tell you so?"
                    "I believe you did say something of the kind," admitted
                        Craig. "But I was so full of my own affairs that I didn't
                        pay much attention to it. Why don't you jump in and marry
                        her?"
                    "She happens to prefer you."
                    
                    "Yes, she does," said Craig with a complacence that roiled
                        Arkwright. "I don't know what the poor girl sees in me,
                        but she's just crazy about me."
                    "Don't be an ass, Josh!" cried Grant in a jealous
                        fury.
                    Craig laughed pleasantly. "I'm stating simple
                        facts." Then, with abrupt change to earnestness, "Do you
                        suppose, if I were to break the engagement, she'd take it seriously
                        to heart?"
                    "I fancy she could live through it if you could. She probably cares
                        no more than you do."
                    "There's the worst of it. I want her, Grant. When
                        I'm with her I can't tolerate the idea of giving her up.
                        But how in the mischief can I marry her? I'm too
                        strong a dose for a frail, delicate little thing like her."
                    "She's as tall as you are. I've seen her play
                        athletes to a standstill at tennis."
                    "But she's so refined, so—"
                    "Oh, fudge!" muttered Arkwright. Then louder:
                        "Didn't I tell you not to talk to me about this
                        business?"
                    "But I've got to do it," protested Craig.
                        "You're the only one I can talk to — without
                        being a cad."
                    Arkwright looked disgusted. "You love the girl," he said
                        bitterly, "and she wants you. Marry her."
                    
                    "But I haven't got the money."
                    Craig was out with the truth at last. "What would we live on? My
                        salary is only seventy-five hundred dollars. If I get the
                        Attorney-Generalship it'll be only eight thousand, and
                        I've not got twenty thousand dollars besides. As long as
                        I'm in politics I can't do anything at the law. All the
                        clients that pay well are clients I'd not dare have anything to do
                        with — I may have to prosecute them. Grant, I used to think
                        Government salaries were too big, and I used to rave against office-holders
                        fattening on the people. I was crazy. How's a man to marry a lady and live like a gentleman on seven
                        or eight thousand a year? It can't be done."
                    "And you used to rave against living like a gentleman,"
                        thrust Grant maliciously.
                    Craig reddened. "There it is!" he fairly shouted.
                        "I'm going to the devil. I'm sacrificing all my
                        principles. That's what this mixing with swell people and trying to
                        marry a fashionable lady is doing for me!"
                    "You're broadening out, you mean. You're losing
                        your taste for tommy-rot."
                    "Not at all," said Craig surlily and stubbornly.
                        "I'll tell you what I'am going to do.
                        I'm going to see the girl to-day and put the whole case before her.
                        And I want you to back me up."
                    
                    "I'll do nothing of the sort," cried Grant.
                        "How can you ask such a thing of me?"
                    
                    "Yes, you must go with me to-day."
                    "I've got an engagement — garden-party at the
                        British Embassy."
                    "Going there, are you? . . . Um! . . . Well, we'll
                        see."
                    The breakfast came and Craig ate like a ditchdigger — his own
                        breakfast and most of Grant's. Grant barely touched the food, lit a
                        cigarette, sat regarding the full-mouthed Westerner gloomily. "What
                            did Margaret see in this man?" thought Grant.
                        "True, she doesn't know him as well as I do; but she knows
                        him well enough. Talk about women being refined! Why, they've got
                        ostrich stomachs."
                    "Do you know, Grant," said Craig thickly, so stuffed was
                        his mouth, "I think your refined women like men of my sort. I know
                        I can't bear anything but refined women. Now, you —
                        you've got an ostrich stomach. I've seen you quite pleased
                        with women I'd not lay my finger on. Yet most people'd say
                        you were more sensitive than I. Instead, you're much coarser
                        — except about piffling, piddling, paltry non-essentials. You
                        strain at a gnat and swallow a camel. I shouldn't be a bit
                        surprised if Margaret had penetrated the fact that  your coarseness is in-bred while mine is near surface. Women
                        have a surprising way of getting at the bottom of things. I'm a
                        good deal like a woman in that respect myself."
                    Grant thrust a cigar upon him, got him out of the room and on the way out of
                        the house as quickly as possible. "Insufferable egotist!"
                        he mumbled, by way of a parting kick. "Why do I like him? Damned if
                        I believe I do!"
                    He did not dress until late that afternoon, but lay in his rooms, very low
                        and miserable. When he issued forth it was to the garden-party —
                        and immediately he ran into Margaret and Craig, apparently lying in wait for
                        him. "Here he is!" exclaimed Josh, slapping him
                        enthusiastically on the back. "Grant, Margaret wants to talk with
                        you. I must run along." And before either could speak he had darted
                        away, plowing his way rudely through the crowd.
                    Margaret and Grant watched his progress — she smiling, he surly and
                        sneering. "Yet you like him," said Margaret.
                    "In a way, yes," conceded Arkwright. "He has a
                        certain sort of magnetism." He pulled himself up short.
                        "This morning," said he, "I apologized to him for
                        my treachery; and here I am at it again."
                    
                    "I don't mind," said Margaret.
                        "It's quite harmless."
                    "That's it!" exclaimed Grant in gloomy triumph.
                        "You can't care for me because you think me
                        harmless."
                    "Well, aren't you?"
                    "Yes," he admitted, "I couldn't give
                        anybody — at least, not a blasé Washington society girl —
                        anything approaching a sensation. I understand the mystery at
                        last."
                    "Do you?" said Margaret, with a queer expression in her
                        eyes. "I wish I did."
                    Grant reflected upon this, could make nothing of it. "I
                        don't believe you're really in love with him," he
                        finally said.
                    "Was that what you told him you wished to talk to me
                        about?"
                    "I didn't tell him I wanted to talk with you,"
                        protested Grant. "He asked me to try to persuade you not to marry
                        him."
                    "Well — persuade!"
                    "To explain how coarse he is."
                    "How coarse is he?"
                    "To dilate on the folly of your marrying a poor man with no money
                        prospects."
                    
                    "I'm content with his prospects — and with mine
                        through him."
                    "Seven or eight thousand a year? Your dresses cost much more than
                        that."
                    "No matter."
                    "You must be in love with him!"
                    "Women take strange fancies."
                    "What's the matter, Rita? What have you in the back of your
                        mind?"
                    She looked straight at him. "Nothing about you.
                        Not the faintest, little shadow of a regret." And her hazel eyes
                        smiled mirth of the kind that is cruelest from woman to man.
                    "How exasperating you are!"
                    "Perhaps I've caught the habit from my man."
                    "Rita, you don't even like me any more."
                    "No — candidly — I don't."
                    "I deserve it."
                    "You do. I can never trust you again."
                    He shrugged his shoulders; but he could not pretend that he was indifferent.
                        "It seems to me, if Josh for gave me you might."
                    "I do — forgive."
                    "But not even friendship?"
                    "Not even friendship."
                    
                    "You are hard."
                    "I am hard."
                    "Rita! For God's sake, don't marry that man! You
                        don't love him —you know you don't. At times you
                        feel you can hardly endure him. You'll be miserable —in
                        every way. And I — At least I can give you material
                        happiness."
                    She smiled — a cold, enigmatic smile that made her face seem her
                        grandmother's own peering through a radiant mask of youth. She
                        glanced away, around—"Ah! there are mamma and Augusta
                        Burke." And she left him to join them.
                    He wandered out of the garden, through the thronged corridors, into the
                        street, knocking against people, seeing no one, not heeding the frequent
                        salutations. He went to the Wyandotte, to Craig's tawdry, dingy
                        sittingroom, its disorder now apparently beyond possibility of righting.
                        Craig, his coat and waistcoat off, his detachable cuffs on the floor, was
                        burrowing into masses of huge law-books.
                    "Clear out," said he curtly; "I'm
                        busy."
                    Grant plumped himself into a chair. "Josh," cried he
                        desperately, "you must marry that girl. She's just the one
                        for you. I love her, and her happiness is dear to me."
                    
                    Craig gave him an amused look. "However did she persuade you to come
                        here and say that?" he inquired.
                    "She didn't persuade me. She didn't mention it.
                        All she said was that she had wiped me off the slate even as a
                        friend."
                    Craig laughed uproariously. "That was how she did
                        it — eh? She's a deep one."
                    "Josh," said Arkwright, "you need a wife, and
                        she's it."
                    "Right you are," exclaimed Craig heartily.
                        "I'm one of those surplus-steam persons — have to
                        make an ass of myself constantly, indulging in the futility of blowing off
                        steam. Oughtn't to do it publicly — creates false
                        impression. Got to have a wife — no one else but a wife always
                        available and bound to be discreet. Out with you. I'm too busy to
                        talk —even about myself."
                    "You will marry her?"
                    "Like to see anybody try to stop me!"
                    He pulled Arkwright from the chair, thrust him into the hall, slammed the
                        door. And Arkwright, in a more hopeful frame of mind, went home.
                        "I'll do my best to get back her respect — and my
                        own," said he. "I've been a dog, and
                        she's giving me the whipping I deserve."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVI
                    A FIGHT AND A FINISH
                    In his shrewd guess at Margaret's reason for dealing so summarily
                        with Arkwright, Craig was mistaken, as the acutest of us usually are in
                        attributing motives. He had slowly awakened to the fact that she was not a
                        mere surface, but had also the third dimension — depth, which
                        distinguishes persons from people. Whenever he tried to get at what she
                        meant by studying what she did, he fell into the common error of judging her
                        by himself, and of making no allowance for the sweeter and brighter side of
                        human nature, which was so strong in her that, in happier circumstances, the
                        other side would have been mere rudiment.
                    Her real reason for breaking with Grant was a desire to be wholly honorable
                        with Craig. She resolved to burn her bridges toward Arkwright, to put him
                        entirely out of her mind — as she had not done theretofore; for
                        whenever she had grown weary of Craig's harping on her being the
                        aggressor in the engagement and not himself, or whenever she had become
                        irritated against him  through his rasping
                        mannerisms she had straightway begun to revolve Arkwright as a possible
                        alternative. Craig's personality had such a strong effect on her,
                        caused so many moods and reactions, that she was absolutely unable to tell
                        what she really thought of him. Also, when she was so harassed by doubt as
                        to whether the engagement would end in marriage or in a humiliation of
                        jilting, when her whole mind was busy with the problem of angling him within
                        the swoop of the matrimonial net, how was she to find leisure to examine her
                        heart? Whether she wanted him or simply wanted a husband she could not have
                        said.
                    She felt that his eccentric way of treating the engagement would justify her
                        in keeping Arkwright in reserve. But she was finding that there were limits
                        to her ability to endure her own self-contempt, and she sacrificed Grant to
                        her outraged self-respect. Possibly she might have been less conscientious
                        had she not come to look on Grant as an exceedingly pale and shadowy
                        personality, a mere vague expression of well-bred amiability, male because
                        trousered, identifiable chiefly by the dollar mark.
                    Her reward seemed immediate. There came a day when Craig was all devotion,
                        was talking incessantly of their future, was never once doubtful or even
                        low-spirited.  It was simply a question of
                        when they would marry — whether as soon as Stillwater fixed his
                        date for retiring, or after Craig was installed. She had to listen patiently
                        to hours on hours of discussion as to which would be the better time. She
                        had to seem interested, though from the viewpoint of her private purposes
                        nothing could have been less important. She had no intention of permitting
                        him to waste his life and hers in the poverty and uncertainty of public
                        office, struggling for the applause of mobs one despised as individuals and
                        would not permit to cross one's threshold. But she had to let him
                        talk on and on, and yet on. In due season, when she was ready to speak and
                        he to hear, she would disclose to him the future she had mapped out for him,
                        not before. He discoursed; she listened. At intervals he made love in his
                        violent, terrifying way; she endured, now half-liking it, now half-hating it
                        and him, but always enduring, passive, as became a modest, inexperienced
                        maiden, and with never a suggestion of her real thoughts upon her
                        surface.
                    It was the morning after one of these outbursts of his, one of unusual
                        intensity, one that had so worn upon her nerves that, all but revolted by
                        the sense of sick satiety, she had come perilously near to indulging herself
                        in the too costly luxury of telling him precisely what  she thought of him and his conduct. She was in bed, with the
                        blinds just up, and the fair, early-summer world visioning itself to her
                        sick heart like Paradise to the excluded Peri at its barred gate.
                        "And if he had given me half a chance I'd have loved
                        him," she was thinking. "I do believe in him, and admire
                        his strength and his way of never accepting defeat. But how can I —
                        how can I — when he makes me the victim of these
                        ruffian moods of his? I almost think the Frenchman was right who said that
                        every man ought to have two wives. . . . Not that at times he
                        doesn't attract we that way. But because one likes champagne one
                        does not wish it by the cask. A glass now and then, or a bottle —
                        perhaps — Aloud: "What is it, Selina?"
                    "A note for you, ma'am, from him.
                        It's marked important and immediate. You told me not to disturb you
                        with those marked important, nor with those marked immediate. But you
                        didn't say what to do about those marked both."
                    "The same," said Margaret, stretching herself out at full
                        length, and snuggling her head into the softness of her perfumed hair.
                        "But now that you've brought it thus far, let me have
                        it."
                    Selina laid it on the silk and swansdown quilt and departed. Margaret forgot
                        that it was there in thinking  about a new
                        dress she was planning, an adaptation of a French model. As she turned
                        herself it fell to the floor. She reached down, picked it up, opened it,
                        read:
                    "It's no use. Fate's against us. I find the
                        President is making my marriage the excuse for not appointing me. How lucky
                        we did not announce the engagement. This is a final good-by. I shall keep
                        out of your way. It's useless for you to protest. I am doing what
                        is best for us both. Thank me, and forget me."
                    She leaped from the bed with one bound, and, bare of foot and in her
                        nightgown only, rushed to the telephone. She called up the Arkwrights, asked
                        for Grant. "Wake him," she said. "If he is still
                        in bed tell him Miss Severence wishes to speak to him at once."
                    Within a moment Grant's agitated voice was coming over the wire:
                        "Is that you, Rita? What is the matter?"
                    "Come out here as soon as you can. How long will it
                        be?"
                    An hour. I really must shave."
                    In an hour, then. Good-by."
                    Before the end of the hour she was pacing her favorite  walk in the garden, impatiently watching the point where he
                        would appear. At sight of her face he almost broke into a run.
                        "What is it, Margaret?" he cried.
                    "What have you been saying to Josh Craig?" she
                        demanded.
                    "Nothing, I swear. I've been keeping out of his way. He
                        came to see me this morning—called me a dozen times on the
                        telephone, too. But I refused him."
                    She reflected. "I want you to go and bring him here," she
                        said presently. "No matter what he says, bring him."
                    "When?"
                    "Right away."
                    "If I have to use force." And Grant hastened away.
                    Hardly had he gone when Williams appeared, carrying a huge basket of orchids.
                        "They just came, ma'am. I thought you'd like to
                        see them."
                    "From Mr. Arkwright?"
                    "No, ma'am; Mr. Craig."
                    "Craig?" ejaculated Margaret.
                    "Yes, Miss Rita."
                    "Craig," repeated Margaret, but in a very different
                        tone—a tone of immense satisfaction and relief. She waved her hand
                        with a smile of amused disdain. "Take  them into the house, but not to my room. Put them in Miss
                        Lucia's sitting-room."
                    Williams had just gone when into the walk rushed Grant and Craig. Their faces
                        were so flurried, so full of tragic anxiety that Margaret, stopping short,
                        laughed out loud. "You two look as if you had come to view the
                        corpse."
                    "I passed Craig on his way here," explained Grant,
                        "and took him into my machine."
                    "I was not on my way here," replied Josh loftily.
                        "I was merely taking a walk. He asked me to get in and brought me
                        here in spite of my protests."
                    "You were on the road that leads here," insisted Arkwright
                        with much heat.
                    "I repeat I was simply taking a walk," insisted Craig. He
                        had not once looked at Margaret.
                    "No matter," said Margaret in her calm, distant way.
                        "You may take him away, Grant. And"—here she
                        suddenly looked at Craig, a cold, haughty glance that seemed to tear open an
                        abysmal gulf between them—"I do not wish to see you again.
                        I am done with you. I have been on the verge of telling you so many times of
                        late."
                    "Is that what you sent Grant after me to tell
                        me?"
                    "No," answered she. "I sent him on an impulse  to save the engagement. But while he was gone
                        it suddenly came over me that you were right—entirely right. I
                        accept your decision. You're afraid to marry me because of your
                        political future. I'm afraid to marry you because of my stomach.
                        You—nauseate me. I've been under some kind of hideous
                        spell. I'm free of it now. I see you as you are. I am ashamed of
                        myself."
                    "I thought so! I knew it would come!" exclaimed Arkwright
                        triumphantly.
                    Craig, who had been standing like a stock, suddenly sprang into action. He
                        seized Arkwright by the throat and bore him to the ground.
                        "I've got to kill something," he yelled.
                        "Why not you?"
                    This unexpected and vulgar happening completely upset Margaret's
                        pride and demolished her dignified pose. She gazed in horror at the two men
                        struggling, brute-like, upon the grass. Her refined education had made no
                        provision for such an emergency. She rushed forward, seized Craig by the
                        shoulders. "Get up!" she cried contemptuously, and she
                        dragged him to his feet. She shook him fiercely. "Now get out of
                        here; and don't you dare come back!"
                    Craig laughed loudly. A shrewd onlooker might have suspected from his
                        expression that he had deliberately created a diversion of confusion, and
                        was congratulating 
                        
                            "`I've got to kill
                                something,' he yelled. `Why not
                                you?'"
                        
                         himself upon its success. "Get
                        out?" cried he. "Not I. I go where I please and stay as
                        long as I please."
                    Arkwright was seated upon the grass, readjusting his collar and tie.
                        "What a rotten coward you are!" he said to Craig,
                        "to take me off guard like that."
                    "It was a low trick," admitted Josh,
                        looking down at him genially. "But I'm so crazy I
                        don't know what I'm doing."
                    "Oh, yes, you do; you wanted to show off," answered
                        Grant.
                    But Craig had turned to Margaret again. "Read that," he
                        commanded, and thrust a newspaper clipping into her hand. It was from one of
                        the newspapers of his home town — a paper of his own party, but
                        unfriendly to him. It read:
                    "Josh Craig's many friends here will be glad to bear that
                        he is catching on down East. With his Government job as a stepping-stone he
                        has sprung into what he used to call plutocratic society in Washington, and
                        is about to marry a young lady who is in the very front of the push. He will
                        retire from politics, from head-hunting among the plutocrats, and will soon
                        be a plutocrat and a  palace-dweller himself.
                        Success to you, Joshua. The `pee-pul' have lost a friend —
                        in the usual way. As for us, we've got the right to say, `I told
                        you so,' but we'll be good and refrain."
                    "The President handed me that last night," said Craig, when
                        he saw that her glance was on the last line. "And he told me he had
                        decided to ask Stillwater to stay on."
                    Margaret gave the clipping to Grant. "Give it to him," she
                        said and started toward the house.
                    Craig sprang before her. "Margaret," he cried,
                        "can you blame me?"
                    "No," said she, and there was no pose in her manner now; it
                        was sincerely human. "I pity you." She waved him out of
                        her path and, with head bent, he obeyed her.
                    The two men gazed after her. Arkwright was first to speak: "Well,
                        you've got what you wanted."
                    Craig slowly lifted his circled, bloodshot eyes to Arkwright.
                        "Yes," said he hoarsely, "I've got what
                        I wanted."
                    "Not exactly in the way a gentleman would like to get it,"
                        pursued Grant. "But you don't mind a
                        trifle of that sort."
                    
                    No," said Craig, "I don't mind a trifle of that
                        sort. `Bounder Josh' — that's what they call me,
                        isn't it?"
                    "When they're frank they do."
                    Craig drew a long breath, shook himself like a man gathering himself together
                        after a stunning blow. He reflected a moment. "Come along, Grant.
                        I'm going back in your machine."
                    "The driver'll take you," replied Arkwright
                        stiffly. "I prefer to walk."
                    "Then we'll walk back together."
                    "We will not!" said Arkwright violently. "And
                        after this morning the less you say to me the better pleased I'll
                        be, and the less you'll impose upon the obligation I'm
                        under to you for having saved my life once."
                    "You treacherous hound," said Craig pleasantly.
                    "Where did you get the nerve to put on airs with me? What would you
                        have done to her in the same circumstances? Why, you'd have sneaked
                        and lied out of it. And you dare to scorn me because I've been
                        frank and direct! Come! I'll give you another chance. Will you take
                        me back to town in your machine?"
                    A pause, Craig's fierce gaze upon Grant, Grant's upon the
                        ground. Then Grant mumbled surlily: "Come on."
                    When they were passing the front windows of the  house Craig assumed that Margaret was hiding somewhere there, peering out
                        at them. But he was wrong. She was in her room, was face down upon her bed,
                        sobbing as if her first illusion had fallen, had dashed to pieces, crushing
                        her heart under it.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVII
                    A NIGHT MARCH
                    Arkwright saw no one but his valet-masseur for several days; on the left side
                        of his throat the marks of Craig's fingers showed even above the
                        tallest of his extremely tall collars. From the newspapers he gathered that
                        Margaret had gone to New York on a shopping trip — had gone for a
                        stay of two or three weeks. When the adventure in the garden was more than a
                        week into the past, as he was coming home from a dinner toward midnight he
                        jumped from his electric brougham into Craig's arms.
                    "At last!" exclaimed Josh, leading the way up the Arkwright
                        steps and ringing the bell. Grant muttered a curse under his breath. When
                        the man had opened the door, "Come in," continued Josh
                        loudly and cheerily, leading the way into the house.
                    "You'd think it was his house, by gad!" muttered
                        Grant.
                    "I've been walking up and down before the entrance  for an hour. The butler asked me in, but I
                        hate walls and roof. The open for me — the wide, wide
                        open!"
                    "Not so loud," growled Arkwright. "The
                        family's in bed. Wait till we get to my part of the
                        house."
                    When they were there, with doors closed and the lights on, Craig exhaled his
                        breath as noisily as a blown swimmer. "What a day! What a
                        day!" he half-shouted, dropping on the divan and thrusting his feet
                        into the rich and rather light upholstery of a near-by chair.
                    Grant eyed the feet gloomily. He was proud of his furniture and as careful of
                        it as any old maid.
                    "Go ahead, change your clothes," cried Josh. "I
                        told your motorman not to go away."
                    "What do you mean?" Arkwright demanded, his temper boiling
                        at the rim of the pot.
                    "I told him before you got out. You see, we're going to New
                        York to-night — or rather this morning. Train starts at one
                        o'clock. I met old Roebuck at the White House to-night —
                        found he was going by special train — asked him to take
                        us."
                    "Not I," said Arkwright. "No New York for me.
                        I'm busy to-morrow. Besides, I don't want to
                        go."
                    "Of course you don't," laughed Craig, and
                        Arkwright  now noted that he was in the kind
                        of dizzy spirits that most men can get only by drinking a very great deal
                        indeed. "Of course you don't. No more do I. But
                        I've got to go — and so have you."
                    "What for?"
                    "To help me get married."
                    Grant could only gape at him.
                    "Don't you know Margaret has gone to New
                        York?"
                    "I saw it in the paper, but —"
                    "Now, don't go back a week to ancient
                        history."
                    "I don't believe it," foamed Grant, so distracted
                        that he sprang up and paced the floor, making wild gestures with his arms
                        and head.
                    Craig watched, seemed hugely amused. "You'll see, about
                        noon to-morrow. You've got to put in the morning shopping for me. I
                        haven't got — You know what sort of a wardrobe mine is.
                        Wardrobe? Hand satchel! Carpet-bag! Rag-bag! If I took off my shoes
                        you'd see half the toes of one foot and all the heel of the other.
                        And only my necktie holds this collar in place. Both buttonholes are gone.
                        As for my underclothes — but I'll spare you
                        these."
                    "Yes, do," said Grant with a vicious sneer.
                    "Now, you've got to buy me a complete outfit."
                        Craig drew a roll of bills from his pocket, counted off  several, threw them on the table. "There's
                        four hundred dollars, all I can afford to waste at present. Make it go as
                        far as you can. Get a few first-class things, the rest decent and
                        substantial, but not showy. I'll pay for the suits I've
                        got to get. They'll have to be readymade — and very good
                        ready-made ones a man can buy nowadays. We'll go to the
                        tailor's first thing — about seven o'clock in the
                        morning, which'll give him plenty of time for
                        alterations."
                    "I won't!" exploded Grant, stopping his restless
                        pacing and slamming himself on to a chair.
                    "Oh, yes, you will," asserted Craig, with absolute
                        confidence. "You're not going back on me."
                    "There's nothing in this — nothing! I've
                        known Rita Severence nearly twenty years, and I know she's done
                        with you."
                    Craig sprang to his feet, went over and laid his heavy hand heavily upon
                        Arkwright's shoulder. "And," said he,
                        "you know me. Did I ever say a thing that didn't prove to
                        be true, no matter how improbable it seemed to you?"
                    Arkwright was silent.
                    "Grant," Craig went on, and his voice was gentle and
                        moving, "I need you. I must have you. You won't fail me,
                        will you, old pal?"
                    
                    Oh, hell! — I'll go," said Grant in a
                        much-softened growl. "But I know it's a wild-goose chase.
                        Still, you do need the clothes. You're a perfect
                        disgrace."
                    Craig took away his hand and burst into his noisy, boyish laughter, so
                        reminiscent of things rural and boorish, of the coarse, strong spirits of
                        the happy-go-lucky, irresponsibles that work as field hands and woodhaulers.
                        "By cracky, Grant, I just got sight of the remnants of that dig I
                        gave you. It was a beauty, wasn't it?"
                    Arkwright moved uneasily, fumbled at his collar, tried to smile
                        carelessly.
                    "I certainly am the luckiest devil," Craig went on.
                        "Now, what a stroke pushing you over and throttling you
                        was!" And he again laughed loudly.
                    "I don't follow you," said Grant sourly.
                    "What a vanity box you are! You can't take a joke. Now,
                        they're always poking fun at me — pretty damn nasty! some
                        of it — but don't I always look cheerful?"
                    "Oh — you!" exclaimed Grant in
                        disgust.
                    "And do you know why?" demanded Craig, giving him a rousing
                        slap on the knee. "When I find it hard to laugh I begin to think of
                        the greatest joke of all — the joke I'll have on these
                        merry boys when the cards  are all played and
                        I sweep the tables. I think of that, and, by gosh, I fairly
                        roar!"
                    "Do you talk that way to convince yourself?"
                    Craig's eyes were suddenly shrewd. "Yes," said he,
                        "and to convince you, and a lot of other weak-minded people who
                        believe all they hear. You'll find out some day that the world
                        thinks with its ears and its mouth, my boy. But, as I say, who but I could
                        have tumbled into such luck as came quite accidentally out of that little
                        `rough-house' of mine at your expense?"
                    "Don't see it," said Grant.
                    "Why, can't you see that it puts you out of business with
                        Margaret? She's not the sort of woman to take to the fellow that
                        shows he's the weaker."
                    "Well, I'll be — damned!" gasped
                        Arkwright. "You have got your nerve! To say such
                        a thing to a man you've just asked a favor of."
                    "Not at all," cried Craig airily. "Facts are
                        facts. Why deny them?"
                    Arkwright shrugged his shoulders. "Well, let it pass. . . . Whether
                        it's settled me with her or not, it somehow — curiously
                        enough — settled her with me. Do you know, Josh, I've had
                        no use for her since. I can't explain it."
                    Vanity," said Craig. "You are vain, like all people  who don't talk about themselves. The
                        whole human race is vain — individually and collectively. Now, if a
                        man talks about himself as I do, why, his vanity froths away harmlessly. But
                        you and your kind suffer from ingrowing vanity. You think of nothing but
                        yourselves — how you look — how you feel — how
                        you are impressing others — what you can get for yourself
                        — self — self — self, day and night. You
                        don't like Margaret any more because she saw you humiliated. Where
                        would I be if I were like that? Why, I'd be dead or hiding in the
                        brush; for I've had nothing but insults, humiliations, sneers,
                        snubs, all my life. Crow's my steady diet, old pal. And I fatten
                        and flourish on it."
                    Grant was laughing, with a choke in his throat. "Josh,"
                        said he, "you're either more or less than
                        human."
                    "Both," said Craig. "Grant, we're wasting
                        time. Walter!" That last in a stentorian shout.
                    The valet appeared. "Yes, Mr. Craig."
                    "Pack your friend Grant, here, for two days in New York.
                        He's going to-night and — I guess you'd better
                        come along."
                    Arkwright threw up his hands in a gesture of mock despair. "Do as he
                        says, Walter. He's the boss."
                    Now you're talking sense," said Craig. "Some day
                             you'll stand before kings for
                        this — or sit, as you please."
                    On their way out Josh fished from the darkness under the front stairs a
                        tattered and battered suitcase and handed it to Walter.
                        "It's my little all," he explained to Grant.
                        "I've given up my rooms at the Wyandotte. They stored an
                        old trunkful or so for me, and I've sent my books to the
                        office."
                    "Look here, Josh," said Grant, when they were under way;
                        "does Margaret know you're coming?"
                    "Does Margaret know I'm coming?" repeated Joshua
                        mockingly. "Does Margaret know her own mind and me? . . . Before I
                        forget it here's a list I wrote out against a lamp-post while I was
                        waiting for you to come home. It's the things I must have, so far
                        as I know. The frills and froth you know about — I
                        don't."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVIII
                    PEACE AT ANY PRICE
                    Miss Severence, stepping out of a Waldorf elevator at the main floor, shrank
                        back wide-eyed. "You?" she gasped.
                    Before her, serene and smiling and inflexible, was Craig. None of the suits
                        he had bought at seven that morning was quite right for immediate use; so
                        there he was in his old lounge suit, baggy at knees and elbows and liberally
                        bestrewn with lint. Her glance fell from his mussy collar to his
                        backwoodsman's hands, to his feet, so cheaply and shabbily shod;
                        the shoes looked the worse for the elaborate gloss the ferry bootblack had
                        put upon them. She advanced because she could not retreat; but never had she
                        been so repelled.
                    She had come to New York to get away from him. When she entered the train she
                        had flung him out of the window. "I will not
                        think of him again," she had said to herself. But — Joshua
                        Craig's was not the sort of personality that can he banished by an
                        edict of will. She could think angrily of him, or disdainfully, or coldly,
                        or  pityingly — but think she must.
                        And think she did. She told herself she despised him; and there came no
                        echoing protest or denial from anywhere within her. She said she was done
                        with him forever, and well done; her own answer to herself there was, that
                        while she was probably the better off for having got out of the engagement,
                        still it must he conceded that socially the manner of her getting out meant
                        scandal, gossip, laughter at her. Her cheeks burned as her soul flamed.
                    "The vulgar boor!" she muttered.
                    Was ever woman so disgraced, and so unjustly? What had the gods against her,
                        that they had thus abased her? How Washington would jeer! How her friends
                        would sneer! What hope was there now of her ever getting a husband? She
                        would he an object of pity and of scorn. It would take more courage than any
                        of the men of her set had, to marry a woman rejected by such a creature
                        — and in such circumstances!
                    "He has made everybody think I sought him. Now, he'll tell
                        everybody that he had to break it off — that he
                        broke it off!"
                    She ground her teeth; she clenched her hands; she wept and moaned in the
                        loneliness of her bed. She hated Craig; she hated the whole world; she
                        loathed herself. And all the time she had to keep up appearances —
                        for  she had not dared tell her grandmother
                        — had to listen while the old lady discussed the marriage as an
                        event of the not remote future.
                    Why had she not told her grandmother? Lack of courage; hope that something
                        would happen to reveal the truth without her telling. Hope
                        that something would happen? No, fear. She did not dare look at the
                        newspapers. But, whatever her reason, it was not any idea that possibly the
                        engagement might he resumed. No, not that. "Horrible as I
                        feel," thought she, "I am better off than in those weeks
                        when that man was whirling me from one nightmare to another. The peace of
                        desolation is better than that torture of doubt and repulsion. Whatever was
                        I thinking of to engage myself to such a man? to think seriously of passing
                        my life with him? Poor fool that I was, to rail against monotony, to sign
                        for sensations! Well, I have got them."
                    Day and night, almost without ceasing, her thoughts had boiled and bubbled on
                        and on, like a geyser ever struggling for outlet and ever falling vainly
                        back upon itself.
                    Now — here he was, greeting her at the elevator car, smiling and
                        confident, as if nothing had happened. She did not deign even to stare at
                        him, but, with eyes that  seemed to he simply
                        looking without seeing any especial object, she walked straight on.
                        "I'm in luck," cried he, beside her. "I
                        had only been walking up and down there by the elevators about twenty
                        minutes."
                    She made no reply. At the door she said to the carriage-caller:
                    "A cab, please — no, a hansom."
                    The hansom drove up; its doors opened. Craig pushed aside the carriage man,
                        lifted her in with a powerful upward swing of his arm against her elbow and
                        side — so powerful that she fell into the seat, knocking her hat
                        awry and loosening her veil from the brim so that it hung down distressfully
                        across her eyes and nose. "Drive up Fifth Avenue to the
                        Park," said Craig, seating himself beside her. "Now,
                        please don't cry," he said to her.
                    "Cry?" she exclaimed. Her dry, burning eyes blazed at
                        him.
                    "Your eyes were so bright," laughed he, "that I
                        thought they were full of tears."
                    "If you are a gentleman you will leave this hansom at
                        once."
                    "Don't talk nonsense," said he. "You know
                        perfectly well I'll not leave. You know perfectly well
                        I'll say what I've got to say to you, and that no power on
                             earth can prevent me. That's why
                        you didn't give way to your impulse to make a scene when I followed
                        you into this trap."
                    She was busy with her hat and veil.
                    "Can I help you?" said he with a great show of politeness
                        that was ridiculously out of harmony with him in every way. That, and the
                        absurdity of Josh Craig, of all men, helping a woman in the delicate task of
                        adjusting a hat and veil, struck her as so ludicrous that she laughed
                        hysterically; her effort to make the laughter appear an outburst of
                        derisive, withering scorn was not exactly a triumph.
                    "Well," she presently said, "what is it you wish
                        to say? I have very little time."
                    He eyed her sharply. "You think you dislike me, don't
                        you?" said he.
                    "I do," replied she, her tone as cutting as her words were
                        curt.
                    "How little that amounts to! All human beings — Grant, you,
                        I, all of us, everybody — are brimful of vanity. It slops over a
                        little one way and we call it like. It slops over the other way and we call
                        it dislike — hate — loathing — according to the
                        size of the slop. Now, I'm not here to deal with vanity, but with
                        good sense. Has it occurred to you in the last few days that  you and I have got to get married, whether we
                        will or no?"
                    "It has not," she cried with frantic fury of human being
                        cornered by an ugly truth.
                    "Oh, yes, it has. For you are a sensible woman — entirely
                        too sensible for a woman, unless she marries an unusual man like
                        me."
                    "Is that a jest?" she inquired in feeble attempt at
                        sarcasm.
                    "Don't you know I have no sense of humor? Would I do the
                        things I do and carry There through if I had?"
                    In spite of herself she admired this penetration of self-analysis. In spite
                        of herself the personality beneath his surface, the personality that had a
                        certain uncanny charm for her, was subtly reasserting its inexplicable
                        fascination.
                    "Yes, we've got to marry," proceeded he.
                        "I have to marry you because I can't afford to let you say
                        you jilted me. That would make me the laughing-stock of my State; and I
                        can't afford to tell the truth that I jilted you because the people
                        would despise me as no gentleman. And, while I don't in the least
                        mind being despised as no gentleman by fashionable noddle-heads or by those
                        I trample on to rise, I do mind it when it would ruin me with the
                        people."
                    
                    Her eyes gleamed. So! She had him at her mercy!
                    "Not so fast, young lady," continued he in answer to that
                        gleam. "It is equally true that you've got to marry
                        me."
                    "But I shall not!" she cried. "Besides, it
                        isn't true."
                    "It is true," replied he. "You
                        may refuse to marry me, just as a man may refuse to run when the dynamite
                        blast is going off. Yes, you can refuse, but — you'd not
                        he your grandmother's granddaughter if you did."
                    "Really!" She was so surcharged with rage that she was
                        shaking with it, was tearing up her handkerchief in her lap.
                    "Yes, indeed," he assured her, tranquil as a lawyer arguing
                        a commercial case before a logic-machine of a judge. "If you do not
                        marry me all your friends will say I jilted you. I needn't tell you
                        what it would mean in your set, what it would mean as to your matrimonial
                        prospects, for you to have the reputation of having been turned down by me
                        — need I?"
                    She was silent; her head down, her lips compressed, her fingers fiercely
                        interlaced with the ruins of her handkerchief.
                    "It is necessary that you marry," said he summing up.
                        "It is wisest and easiest to marry me, since I am willing. To
                        refuse would he to inflict an irreparable 
                        injury upon yourself in order to justify a paltry whim for injuring
                        me."
                    She laughed harshly. "You are frank," said she.
                    "I am paying you the compliment of frankness. I am appealing to your
                        intelligence, where a less intelligent man and one that knew you less would
                        try to gain his point by chicane, flattery, deception."
                    "Yes — it is a compliment," she answered.
                        "It was stupid of me to sneer at your frankness."
                    A long silence. He lighted a cigarette, smoked it with deliberation foreign
                        to his usual self but characteristic of him when he was closely and
                        intensely engaged; for he was like a thoroughbred that is all fret and champ
                        and pawing and caper until the race is on, when he at once settles down into
                        a calm, steady stride, with all the surplus nervous energy applied directly
                        and intelligently to the work in hand. She was not looking at him, but she
                        was feeling him in every atom of her body, was feeling the power, the
                        inevitableness of the man. He angered her, made her feel weak, a helpless
                        thing, at his mercy. True, it was his logic that was convincing her, not his
                        magnetic and masterful will; but somehow the two seemed one. Never had he
                        been so repellent, never had she felt so hostile to him.
                    "I will marry you," she finally said. "But I must
                             tell you that I do not love you
                        — or even like you. The reverse."
                    His face, of the large, hewn features, with their somehow pathetic traces of
                        the struggles and sorrows of his rise, grew strange, almost terrible.
                        "Do you mean that?" he said, turning slowly toward
                        her.
                    She quickly shifted her eyes, in which her dislike was showing, shifted them
                        before he could possibly have seen. And she tried in vain to force past her
                        lips the words which she believed to be the truth, the words his pathetic,
                        powerful face told her would end everything. Yes, she knew he would not
                        marry her if she told him the truth about her feelings.
                    "Do you mean that?" he repeated, stern and sharp, yet sad,
                        wistfully sad, too.
                    "I don't know what I mean," she cried, desperately
                        afraid of him, afraid of the visions the idea of not marrying him conjured.
                        "I don't know what I mean," she repeated.
                        "You fill me with a kind of — of — horror. You
                        draw me into your grasp in spite of myself — like a whirlpool
                        — and rouse all my instinct to try and save myself. Sometimes that
                        desire becomes a positive frenzy."
                    He laughed complacently. "That is love," said he.
                    She did not resent his tone or dispute his verdict  externally. "If it is love," replied she
                        evenly, "then never did love wear so strange, so dreadful a
                        disguise."
                    He laid his talon-hand, hardened and misshapen by manual labor, but if ugly,
                        then ugly with the majesty of the twisted, tempest-defying oak, over hers.
                        "Believe me, Margaret, you love me. You have loved me all along. .
                        . . And I you."
                    "Don't deceive yourself," she felt bound to say,
                        "I certainly do not love you if love has any of its generally
                        accepted meanings."
                    "I am not the general sort of person," said he.
                        "It is not strange that I should arouse extraordinary feelings, is
                        it? Driver"— he had the trap in the roof up and was
                        thrusting through it a slip of paper — "take us to that
                        street and number."
                    She gasped with a tightening at the heart. "I must return to the
                        hotel at once," she said hurriedly.
                    He fixed his gaze upon her. "We are going to the
                        preacher's," said he.
                    "The preacher's?" she murmured, shrinking in
                        terror.
                    "Grant is waiting for us there"— he glanced at his
                        watch —"or, rather, will be there in about ten minutes. We
                        are a little earlier than I anticipated."
                    She flushed crimson, paled, felt she would certainly suffocate with rage.
                    
                    "Before you speak," continued he, "listen to me.
                        You don't want to go back into that torment of doubt in which
                        we've both been hopping about for a month, like a pair of damned
                        souls being used as tennis balls by fiends. Let's settle the
                        business now, and for good and all. Let us have peace — for
                        God's sake, peace! I know you've been miserable. I know
                        I've been on the rack. And it's got to stop. Am I not
                        right?"
                    She leaned back in her corner of the cab, shut her eyes, said no more
                        — and all but ceased to think. What was there to say? What was
                        there to think? When Fate ceases to tolerate our pleasant delusion of free
                        will, when it openly and firmly seizes us and hurries us along, we do not
                        discuss or comment. We close our minds, relax and submit.
                    At the parsonage he sprang out, stood by to help her descend, half-dragged
                        her from the cab when she hesitated. He shouted at the driver: "How
                        much do I owe you, friend?"
                    "Six dollars, sir."
                    "Not on your life!" shouted Craig furiously. He turned to
                        Margaret, standing beside him in a daze. "What do you think of that? This fellow imagines because I've got a
                        well-dressed woman along I'll submit. But I'm not that big
                        a snob." He was looking up at  the
                        cabman again. "You miserable thief!" he exclaimed.
                        "I'll give you three dollars, and that's too much
                        by a dollar."
                    "Don't you call me names!" yelled the cabman,
                        shaking his fist with the whip in it.
                    "The man's drunk," cried Josh to the little crowd
                        of people that had assembled. Margaret, overwhelmed with mortification,
                        tugged at his sleeve. "The man's not overcharging much
                        — if any," she said in an undertone.
                    "You're saying that because you hate scenes,"
                        replied Josh loudly. "You go on into the house. I'll take
                        care of this hound."
                    Margaret retreated within the parsonage gate; her very soul was sick. She
                        longed for the ground to open and swallow her forever. It would be bad
                        enough for a man to make such an exhibition at any time; but to make it when
                        he was about to be married! — and in such circumstances! —
                        to squabble and scream over a paltry dollar or so!
                    "Here's a policeman!" cried Craig. "Now,
                        you thief, we'll see!"
                    The cabman sprang down from his seat. "You damn jay!" he
                        bellowed. "You don't know New York cab-fares. Was you ever
                        to town before — eh?"
                    
                    Craig beckoned the policeman with vast, excited gestures. Margaret fled up
                        the walk toward the parsonage door, but not before she heard Craig say to
                        the policeman:
                    "I am Joshua Craig, assistant to the Attorney-General of the United
                        States. This thief here—" And so on until he had told the
                        whole story. Margaret kept her back to the street, but she could hear the
                        two fiercely-angry voices, the laughter of the crowd. At last Craig joined
                        her — panting, flushed, triumphant. "I knew he was a
                        thief. Four dollars was the right amount, but I gave him five, as the
                        policeman said it was best to quiet him."
                    He gave a jerk at the knob of parsonage street bell as if he were determined
                        to pull it out; the bell within rang loudly, angrily, like the infuriate
                        voice of a sleeper who has been roused with a thundering kick.
                        "This affair of ours," continued Craig, "is going
                        to cost money. And I've been spending it to-day like a drunken
                        sailor. The more careful I am, the less careful I will have to be, my
                        dear."
                    The door opened — a maid, scowling, appeared.
                    "Come on," cried Joshua to Margaret. And he led the way,
                        brushing the maid aside as she stood her ground, attitude belligerent, but
                        expression perplexed. To her,  as he passed,
                        Craig said: "Tell Doctor Scones that Mr. Craig and the lady are
                        here. Has Mr. Arkwright come?"
                    By this time he was in the parlor; a glance around and he burst out:
                    "Late, by jiminy! And I told him to be here ahead of
                        time."
                    He darted to the window. "Ah! There he comes!" He wheeled
                        upon Margaret just as she dropped, half-fainting, into a chair.
                        "What's the matter, dear?" He leaped to her side.
                        "No false emotions, please. If you could weather the real ones
                        what's the use of getting up ladylike excitement over
                        —"
                    "For God's sake!" exclaimed Margaret,
                        "sit down and shut up! If you don't I shall scream
                        — scream — scream!"
                    
                    The maid gaped first at one, then at the other, left them reluctantly to
                        admit Arkwright. As she opened the door she had to draw back a little. There
                        was Craig immediately behind her. He swept her aside, flung the door wide.
                        "Come on! Hurry!" he cried to Grant.
                        "We're waiting." And he seized him by the arm and
                        thrust him into the parlor. At the same instant the preacher entered by
                        another door. Craig's excitement, far from diminishing, grew wilder
                        and wilder. The  preacher thought him insane
                        or drunk. Grant and Margaret tried in vain to calm him. Nothing would do but
                        the ceremony instantly — and he had his way. Never was there a more
                        undignified wedding. When the responses were all said and the marriage was a
                        fact accomplished, so far as preacher could accomplish it, Craig seemed
                        suddenly to subside.
                    "I should like to go into the next room for a moment," said
                        the pallid and trembling Margaret.
                    "Certainly," said Doctor Scones sympathetically, and, with
                        a fierce scowl at the groom, he accompanied the bride from the room.
                    "What a mess you have made!" exclaimed Arkwright
                        indignantly. "You've been acting like a
                        lunatic."
                    "It wasn't acting — altogether," laughed
                        Josh, giving Grant one of those tremendous slaps on the back. "You
                        see, it was wise to give her something else to think about so she
                        couldn't possibly hesitate or bolt. So I just gave way to my
                        natural feelings. It's a way I have in difficult
                        situations."
                    Grant's expression as he looked at him was a mingling of admiration,
                        fear and scorn. "You are full of those petty tricks," said
                        he.
                    "Why petty? Is it petty to meet the requirements  of a situation? The situation was petty
                        — the trick had to be. Besides, I tell you, it wasn't a
                        trick. If I hadn't given my nerves an outlet I might have balked or
                        bolted myself. I didn't want to have to think any more than
                        she."
                    "You mustn't say those things to me," objected his
                        friend.
                    "Why not? What do I care what you or any one else thinks of me? And what could you do except simply think? Old pal,
                        you ought to learn not to judge me by the rules of your little puddle.
                        It's a ridiculous habit." He leaped at the door where
                        Margaret had disappeared and rapped on it fiercely.
                    "Yes — yes — I'm coming,"
                        responded a nervous, pleading, agitated voice; and the door opened and
                        Margret appeared.
                    "What shall we do now?" she said to Craig. Grant saw, with
                        an amazement he could scarely conceal, that for the time, at least, she was
                        quite subdued, would meekly submit to anything.
                    "Go to your grandmother," said Craig promptly.
                        "You attend to the preacher, Grant. Twenty-five's enough
                        to give him."
                    Margaret's cheeks flamed, her head bowed. Grant flushed in sympathy
                        with her agony before this vulgarity.  And a
                        moment later he saw Margaret standing, drooping and resigned, at the curb,
                        while Craig excitedly hailed a cab. "Poor girl!" he
                        muttered, "living with that nightmare-in-breeches will surely kill
                        her — so delicate, so refined, so sensitive!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIX
                    MADAM BOWKER'S BLESSING
                    "If you like I'll go up and tell your
                        grandmother," said Craig, breaking the silence as they neared the
                        hotel. But Margaret's brain had resumed its normal function, was
                        making up for the time it had lost. With the shaking off of the daze had
                        come amazement at finding herself married. In the same circumstances a man
                        would have been incapacitated for action; Craig, who had been so reckless,
                        so headlong a few minutes before, was now timid, irresolute, prey to alarms.
                        But women, beneath the pose which man's resolute apotheosis of
                        woman as the embodiment of unreasoning imagination has enforced upon them,
                        are rarely so imaginative that the practical is wholly obscured. Margaret
                        was accepting the situation, was planning soberly to turn it to the best
                        advantage. Obviously, much hung upon this unconventional, this vulgarly-
                        sensational marriage being diplomatically announced to the person from whom
                        she expected to get an income of her own. " No," said she
                        to Joshua, in response to his nervously-made offer.
                    
                    "You must wait down in the office while I tell her. At the proper
                        time I'll send for you."
                    She spoke friendlily enough, with an inviting suggestion of their common
                        interests. But Craig found it uncomfortable even to look at her. Now that
                        the crisis was over his weaknesses were returning; he could not believe he
                        had dared bear off this " delicate, refined creature,"
                        this woman whom "any one can see at a glance is a patrician of
                        patricians." That kind of nervousness as quickly spreads through
                        every part, moral, mental and physical, of a man not sure of himself as a
                        fire through a haystack. He could not conceal his awe of her. She saw that
                        something was wrong with him; being herself in no "
                        patrician" mood, but, on the contrary, in a mood that was most
                        humanly plebeian, she quite missed the cause of his clumsy embarrassment and
                        constraint; she suspected a sudden physical ailment. "
                        It'll be some time, I expect," said she.
                        "Don't bother to hang around. I'll send a note to
                        the desk, and you can inquire — say, in half an hour or
                        so."
                    "Half an hour!" he cried in dismay. Whatever should he do
                        with himself, alone with these returned terrors, and with no Margaret there
                        to make him ashamed not to give braver battle to them.
                    "An hour, then."
                    
                    She nodded, shook hands with a blush and a smile, not without its gleam of
                        appreciation of the queerness of the situation. He lifted his hat, made a
                        nervous, formal bow and turned away, though no car was there. As the
                        elevator was starting up with her he came hurrying back.
                    " One moment," he said. "I quite
                        forgot."
                    She joined him and they stood aside, in the shelter of a great wrap-rack.
                        " You can tell your grandmother — it may help to smooth
                        things over — that my appointment as Attorney-General will be
                        announced day after to-morrow."
                    " Oh! " exclaimed she, her eyes lighting up.
                    He went on to explain. "As you know, the President didn't
                        want to give it to me. But I succeeded in drawing him into a position where
                        he either had to give it to me or seem to be retiring me because I had so
                        vigorously attacked the big rascals he's suspected of being
                        privately more than half in sympathy with."
                    "She'll be delighted! " exclaimed Margaret.
                    "And you? " he asked with awkward wistfulness.
                    "I? " said she blushing and dropping her glance.
                    "Is it necessary for you to ask? "
                    She went back to the elevator still more out of humor with herself. She had
                        begun their married life with  what was very
                        nearly a — well, it certainly was an evasion; for she cared nothing
                        about his political career, so soon to end. However, she was glad of the
                        appointment, because the news of it would be useful in calming and
                        reconciling her grandmother. Just as her spirits began to rise it flashed
                        into her mind: " Why, that's how it happens I'm
                        married! If he hadn't been successful in getting the office he
                        wouldn't have come. . . . He maneuvered the President into a
                        position where he had to give him what he wanted. Then he came here and
                        maneuvered me into a position where I had to give him what
                        he wanted. Always his 'game!' No sincerity or directness
                        anywhere in him, and very little real courage." Here she stopped
                        short in the full swing of pharisaism, smiled at herself in dismal
                        self-mockery. "And what am I doing? Playing my 'game.' I'm on my way now to
                        maneuver my grandmother. We are well suited — he and I. In another
                        walk of life we might have been a pair of swindlers, playing into each
                        other's hands. . . . And yet I don't believe
                        we're worse than most people. Why, most people do these things
                        without a thought of their being — unprincipled. And, after all,
                        I'm not harming anybody, am I? That is, anybody but
                        myself."
                    She had her campaign carefully laid out; she had  mapped it in the cab between the parsonage and the hotel. "
                        Grandmother," she began as the old lady looked up with a frown
                        because of her long, unexpected absence, "I must tell you that just
                        before we left Washington Craig broke the engagement."
                    Madam Bowker half-started from her chair.
                    "Broke the engagement! " she cried in dismay.
                    "Abruptly and, apparently, finally. I — I didn't
                        dare tell you before."
                    She so longed for sympathy that she half-hoped the old lady would show signs
                        of being touched by the plight which that situation meant. But no sign came.
                        Instead, Madam Bowker pierced her with wrathful eyes and said in a furious
                        voice: "This is frightful! And you have done nothing?" She
                        struck the floor violently with her staff. "He must be brought to a
                        sense of honor — of decency! He must! Do you hear? It was your
                        fault, I am sure. If he does not marry you you are ruined!"
                    "He came over this morning," pursued Margaret.
                    "He wanted to marry me at once."
                    "You should have given him no chance to change his mind
                        again," cried Madam Bowker. "What a trifler you are! No
                        seriousness! Your intelligence all in the abstract; only folly and fritter
                        for your own  affairs. You should have given
                        him no chance to change!"
                    Margaret closed in and struck home. "I didn't,"
                        said she tersely. "I married him."
                    The old lady stared. Then, as she realized how cleverly Margaret had trapped
                        her, she smiled a grim smile of appreciation and forgiveness. "Come
                        and kiss me," said she. "You will do something, now that
                        you have a chance. No woman has a chance — no lady — until she is a Mrs. It's the struggle to
                        round that point that wrecks so many of them."
                    Margaret kissed her. "And," she went on, "he has
                        been made Attorney-General."
                    Never, never had Margaret seen such unconcealed satisfaction in her
                        grandmother's face. The stern, piercing eyes softened and beamed
                        affection upon the girl; all the affection she had deemed it wise to show
                        theretofore always was tempered with sternness. "What a pity he
                        hasn't money," said she. "Still, it can be
                        managed, after a fashion."
                    "We must have money," pursued the girl.
                        "Life with him, without it, would be intolerable. Poor people are
                        thrown so closely together. He is too much for my nerves —
                        often."
                    "He's your property now," Madam Bowker reminded
                             her. "You must not disparage
                        your own property. Always remember that your husband is your property. Then
                        your silly nerves will soon quiet down."
                    "We must have money," repeated Margaret. "A great
                        deal of money."
                    "You know I can't give you a great deal," said the
                        old lady apologetically. "I'll do my best. . . . Would you
                        like to live with me?"
                    There was something so fantastic in the idea of Joshua Craig and Madam Bowker
                        living under the same roof, and herself trying to live with them, that
                        Margaret burst out laughing. The old lady frowned; then, appreciating the
                        joke, she joined in. "You'll have to make up your mind to
                        live very quietly. Politics doesn't pay well — not
                        Craig's branch of it, except in honor. He will be very
                        famous."
                    "Where?" retorted Margaret disdainfully. "Why,
                        with a lot of people who aren't worth considering. No, I am going
                        to take Joshua out of politics."
                    The old lady looked interest and inquiry.
                    "He has had several flattering offers to be counsel to big
                        corporations. The things he has done against There have made There respect
                        and want him. I'm going to get him to leave politics and practice
                        law in New York. Lawyers there — the shrewd ones, like him
                        — make fortunes.  He can still speak
                        occasionally and get all the applause he wants. Joshua loves
                        applause."
                    The old lady was watching her narrowly.
                    "Don't you think I'm right, Grandma? I'm
                        telling you because I want your opinion."
                    "Will he do it?"
                    Margaret laughed easily. "He's afraid of me. If I manage
                        him well he'll do whatever I wish. I can make him realize he has no
                        right to deprive myself and him of the advantages of my
                        station."
                    "Um — um," said the old lady, half to herself.
                        "Yes — yes — perhaps. Um — um
                        —"
                    "He will be much more content once he's settled in the new
                        line. Politics as an end is silly — what becomes of the men who
                        stick to it? But politics as a means is sensible, and Joshua has got out of
                        it about all he can get — about all he needs."
                    "He hopes to be President."
                    "So do thousands of other men. And even if he should get it how
                        would we live — how would I live — while
                        we were waiting — and after it was over? I detest politics
                        — all those vulgar people." Margaret made a disdainful
                        mouth. "It isn't for our sort of people — except,
                        perhaps, the diplomatic posts, and they, of course, go by
                        'pull' or purchase. I like the  life I've led — the life you've
                        led. You've made me luxurious and lazy, Grandma. . . . Rather than
                        President I'd prefer him to be ambassador to England, after a
                        while, when we could afford it. We could have a great social
                        career."
                    "You think you can manage him?" repeated Madam Bowker.
                    She had been simply listening, her thoughts not showing at the surface. Her
                        tone was neither discouraging nor encouraging, merely interrogative. But
                        Margaret scented a doubt. "Don't you think so?"
                        she said a little less confidently.
                    "I don't know. . . . I don't know. . . . It will
                        do no harm to try."
                    Margaret's expression was suddenly like a real face from which a
                        mask has dropped. "I must do it, Grandma. If I don't I
                        shall — I shall hate him! I will not be his servant! When I think of the humiliations he has put
                        upon me I — I almost hate him now!"
                    Madam Bowker was alarmed, but was too wise to show it. She laughed.
                        "How seriously you take yourself, child," said she.
                        "All that is very young and very theatrical. What do birth and
                        breeding mean if not that one has the high courage to bear what is, after
                        all, the lot of most women, and the high intelligence to  use one's circumstances, whatever
                        they may be, to accomplish one's ambitions? A lady cannot afford to
                        despise her husband. A lady is, first of all, serene. You talk like a Craig
                        rather than like a Severence. If he can taint you this soon how long will it
                        be before you are at his level? How can you hope to bring him up to
                        yours?"
                    Margaret's head was hanging.
                    "Never again let me hear you speak disrespectfully of your husband,
                        my child," the old lady went on impressively. "And if you
                        are wise you will no more permit yourself to harbor a disrespectful thought
                        of him than you would permit yourself to wear unclean
                        underclothes."
                    Margaret dropped down at her grandmother's knee, buried her face in
                        her lap. "I don't believe I can ever love him,"
                        she murmured.
                    "So long as you believe that, you never can," said Madam
                        Bowker; "and your married life will be a failure — as
                        great a failure as mine was — as your mother's was. If I
                        had only known what I know now — what I am telling you
                        —" Madam Bowker paused, and there was a long silence in
                        the room. "Your married life, my dear," she went on,
                        "will be what you choose to make of it. You have a husband. Never
                        let yourself  indulge in silly repinings or
                        ruinous longings. Make the best of what you have. Study your husband, not
                        ungenerously and superciliously, but with eyes determined to see the virtues
                        that can be developed, the faults that can be cured, and with eyes that will
                        not linger on the faults that can't be cured. Make him your
                        constant thought and care. Never forget that you belong to the superior
                        sex."
                    "I don't feel that I do," said Margaret.
                        "I can't help feeling women are inferior and wishing
                        I'd been a man."
                    "That is because you do not think," replied Madam Bowker
                        indulgently. "Children are the center of life — its
                        purpose, its fulfillment. All normal men and women want children above
                        everything else. Our only title to be here is as ancestors — to
                        replace ourselves with wiser and better than we. That makes woman the
                        superior of man; she alone has the power to give birth. Man instinctively
                        knows this, and it is his fear of subjection to woman that makes him sneer
                        at and fight against every effort to develop her intelligence and her
                        independence. If you are a true woman, worthy of your race and of your
                        breeding, you will never forget your superiority — or the duties it
                        imposes on you — what you owe to your husband and to your children
                             You are a married woman now. Therefore
                        you are free. Show that you deserve freedom and know how to use
                        it."
                    Margaret listened to the old woman with a new respect for her — and
                        for herself. "I'll try, Grandmother," she said
                        soberly. "But — it won't be easy." A
                        reflective silence, and she repeated, "No, not easy."
                    "Easier than to resist and repine and rage and hunt another man who,
                        on close acquaintance, would prove even less satisfactory," replied
                        her grandmother. "Easy — if you honestly try."
                        She looked down at the girl with the sympathy that goes out to inexperience
                        from those who have lived long and thoughtfully and have seen many a vast
                        and fearful bogy loom and, on nearer view, fade into a mist of fancy.
                        "Above all, child, don't waste your strength on imaginary
                        griefs and woes — you'll have none left for the real
                        trials."
                    Margaret had listened attentively; she would remember what the old lady had
                        said — indeed, it would have been hard to forget words so direct
                        and so impressively uttered. But at the moment they made small impression
                        upon her. She thought her grandmother kindly but cold. In fact, the old lady
                        was giving her as deep  commiseration as her
                        broader experience permitted in the circumstances, some such commiseration
                        as one gives a child who sees measureless calamity in a rainy sky on a
                        long-anticipated picnic morning.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XX
                    MR. CRAIG KISSES THE IDOL'S FOOT
                    Grant Arkwright reached the Waldorf a little less than an hour after he had
                        seen the bride and groom drive away from Doctor Scones'. He found
                        Craig pacing up and down before the desk, his agitation so obvious that the
                        people about were all intensely and frankly interested. "You look
                        as if you were going to draw a couple of guns in a minute or so and shoot up
                        the house," said he, putting himself squarely before Josh and
                        halting him.
                    "For God's sake, Grant," cried Joshua,
                        "see how I'm sweating! Go upstairs — up to their
                        suite, and find out what's the matter."
                    "Go yourself," retorted Grant.
                    Craig shook his head. He couldn't confess to Ark-wright what was
                        really agitating him, why he did not disregard Margaret's
                        injunction.
                    "What're you afraid of?"
                    Josh scowled as Grant thus unconsciously scuffed the sore spot.
                        "I'm not afraid!" he cried aggressively.  "It's better that you
                        should go. Don't haggle — go!"
                    As Grant could think of no reason why he shouldn't, and as he had
                        the keenest curiosity to see how the "old tartar" was
                        taking it, he went. Margaret's voice came in response to his knock.
                        "Oh, it's you," said she in a tone of relief.
                    Her face was swollen and her eyes red. She looked anything but lovely. Grant,
                        however, was instantly so moved that he did not notice her homeliness. Also,
                        he was one of those unobservant people who, having once formed an impression
                        of a person, do not revise it except under compulsion; his last observation
                        of Margaret had resulted in an impression of good looks, exceptional charm.
                        He bent upon her a look in which understanding sympathy was heavily alloyed
                        with the longing of the covetous man in presence of his neighbor's
                        desirable possessions. But he discreetly decided that he would not put into
                        words — at least, not just yet — his sympathy with her for
                        her dreadful, her tragic mistake. No, it would be more tactful as well as
                        more discreet to pretend belief that her tears had been caused by her
                        grandmother. He glanced round.
                    "Where's Madam Bowker?" inquired he. "Did
                        she blow up and bolt?"
                    
                    "Oh, no," answered Margaret, seating herself with a dreary
                        sigh. "She's gone to her sitting-room to write with her
                        own hand the announcement that's to be given out. She says the
                        exact wording is very important."
                    "So it is," said Grant. "All that's said
                        will take its color from the first news."
                    "No doubt." Margaret's tone was indifferent,
                        absent.
                    Arkwright hesitated to introduce the painful subject, the husband; yet he had
                        a certain malicious pleasure in doing it, too. "Josh wants to come
                        up," said he. "He's down at the desk, champing
                        and tramping and pawing holes in the floor." And he looked at her,
                        to note the impression of this vivid, adroitly-reminiscent picture.
                    "Not yet," said Margaret curtly and coldly. All of a sudden
                        she buried her face in her hands and burst into tears.
                    "Rita — dear Rita!" exclaimed Grant, his own eyes
                        wet, "I know just how you feel. Am I not suffering, too? I thought
                        I didn't care, but I did — I do. Rita, it isn't
                        too late yet —"
                    She straightened; dried her eyes. "Stop that, Grant!" she
                        said peremptorily. "Stop it!"
                    
                    His eyes sank. "I can't bear to see you
                        suffer."
                    "You don't mean a word of what you've just
                        said," she went on. "You are all upset, as I am. You are
                        his friend and mine." Defiantly: "And I love him, and you
                        know I do."
                    It was the tone of one giving another something that must be repeated by
                        rote. "That's it," said he, somewhat sullenly,
                        but with no hint of protest. "I'm all unstrung, like you,
                        and like him."
                    "And you will forget that you saw me crying."
                    "I'll never think of it again."
                    "Now go and bring him, please."
                    He went quickly toward the door.
                    "Grant!" she cried. As he turned she rose, advanced with a
                        friendly smile and put out her hand for his. "Thank you,"
                        she said. "You have shown yourself our best
                        friend."
                    "I meant to be," he answered earnestly, as he pressed her
                        hand. "When I pull myself together I think you'll realize
                        I'm some decenter than I've seemed of late."
                    Madam Bowker came just as he returned with Craig. So all attention was
                        concentrated upon the meeting of the two impossibilities. The old lady took
                        her new relative's hand with a gracious, queenly smile — a
                        smile that had the effect both of making him grateful and  of keeping him "in his
                        place." Said she, "I have been writing out the
                        announcement."
                    "Thank you," was Joshua's eager, respectful reply.
                        She gave him the sheet of notepaper she was carrying in her left hand. It
                        was her own private paper, heavy, quiet, rich, engraved with aristocratic
                        simplicity, most elegant; and most elegant was the handwriting.
                        "This," said she, "is to be given out in addition
                        to the formal notice which Grant will send to the newspapers."
                    Craig read:
                    "Mrs. Bowker announces the marriage of her grand-daughter, Margaret
                        Severence, and Joshua Craig, of Wayne, Minnesota, and Washington, by the
                        Reverend Doctor Scones, at the Waldorf, this morning. Only a few relatives
                        and Mr. Craig's friend, Mr. Grant Arkwright, were present. The
                        marriage occurred sooner than was expected, out of consideration for Mrs.
                        Bowker, as she is very old, and wished it to take place before she left for
                        her summer abroad."
                    Craig lifted to the old lady the admiring glance of a satisfied expert in
                        public opinion. Their eyes met on an equality; for an instant he forgot that
                        she figured  in his imagination as anything
                        more than a human being. "Splendid!" cried he, with hearty
                        enthusiasm. "You have covered the case exactly. Grant, telephone
                        for an Associated Press reporter and give him this."
                    "I'll copy it off for him," said Grant.
                    Madam Bowker and Craig exchanged amused glances. "You'll
                        give it to him in Madam Bowker's handwriting," ordered
                        Craig. "You told Scones to keep his mouth shut, when you paid
                        him?"
                    The other three looked conscious, and Margaret reddened slightly at this
                        coarse brusqueness of phrase. "Yes," said Grant.
                        "He'll refuse to be interviewed. I'll go and
                        attend to this."
                    "We're having a gala lunch, at once — in the
                        apartment," said the old lady. "So, come back
                        quickly."
                    When he was gone she said to the two: "And now what are your
                        plans?"
                    "We have none," said Craig.
                    "I had thought —" began Margaret. She hesitated,
                        colored, went on: "Grandmother, couldn't you get the
                        Millicans' camp in the Adirondacks? I heard Mrs. Millican say
                        yesterday they had got it all ready and had suddenly decided to go abroad
                        instead."
                    "Certainly," said the old lady. "I'll
                        telephone  about it at once, and I'll
                        ask the Millicans to lunch with us to-day."
                    She left them alone. Craig, eyeing his bride covertly, had a sense of her
                        remoteness, her unattainability. He was like a man who, in an hour of
                        rashness and vanity, has boasted that he can attain a certain mountain peak,
                        and finds himself stalled at its very base. He decided that he must assert
                        himself; he tried to nerve himself to seize her in his old precipitate,
                        boisterous fashion. He found that he had neither the desire to do so nor the
                        ability. He had never thought her so full of the lady's charm. That
                        was just the trouble — the lady's charm, not the human
                        being's; not the charm feminine for the male.
                    "I hope you'll be very patient with me," said she,
                        with a wan smile. "I am far from well. I've been debating
                        for several days whether or not to give up and send for the
                        doctor."
                    He did not see her real motive in thus paving the way for the formation of
                        the habit of separate lives; he eagerly believed her, was grateful to her,
                        was glad she was ill. So quaint is the interweaving of thought, there
                        flashed into his mind at that moment: "After all, I
                        needn't have blown in so much money on trousseau. Maybe I can get
                        'em to take back those two suits of 
                        twenty-dollar pajamas. Grant went in too deep." This, because the
                        money question was bothering him greatly, the situation that would arise
                        when his savings should be gone; for now it seemed to him he would never
                        have the courage to discuss money with her. If she could have looked in upon
                        his thoughts she would have been well content; there was every indication of
                        easy sailing for her scheme to reconstruct his career.
                    "When do you think of starting for the Adirondacks?" he
                        asked, with a timidity of preliminary swallowing and blushing that made her
                        turn away her face to hide her smile. How completely hers was the situation!
                        She felt the first triumphant thrill of her new estate.
                    "To-night," she replied. "We can't put it
                        off."
                    "No, we can't put it off," assented he, hesitation
                        in his voice, gloom upon his brow. "Though," he added,
                        "you don't look at all well." With an effort:
                        "Margaret, are you glad — or sorry?"
                    "Glad," she answered in a firm, resolute tone. It became a
                        little hard in its practicality as she added: "You were quite
                        right. We took the only course."
                    "You asked me to be a little patient with you," he went
                        on.
                    
                    She trembled; her glance fluttered down.
                    "Well — I — I — you'll have to
                        be a little patient with me, too." He was red with embarrassment.
                        She looked so still and cold and repelling that he could hardly muster voice
                        to go on: "You can't but know, in a general sort of way,
                        that I'm uncouth, unaccustomed to the sort of thing you've
                        had all your life. I'm going to do my best, Margaret. And if
                        you'll help me, and be a little forbearing, I think — I
                        hope — you'll soon find I'm —
                        I'm — oh, you understand."
                    She had given a stealthy sigh of relief when she discovered that he was not
                        making the protest she had feared. "Yes, I understand,"
                        replied she, her manner a gentle graciousness, which in some moods would
                        have sent his pride flaring against the very heavens in angry scorn. But he
                        thought her most sweet and considerate, and she softened toward him with
                        pity. It was very pleasant thus to be looked up to, and, being human, she
                        felt anything but a lessened esteem for her qualities of delicateness and
                        refinement, of patrician breeding, when she saw him thus on his knees before
                        them. He had invited her to look down on him, and she was accepting an
                        invitation which it is not in human nature to decline.
                    There was one subject she had always avoided with  him — the subject of his family. He had not exactly
                        avoided it, indeed, had spoken occasionally of his brothers and sisters,
                        their wives and husbands, their children. But his reference to these humble
                        persons, so far removed from the station to which he had ascended, had
                        impressed her as being dragged in by the ears, as if he were forcing himself
                        to pretend to himself and to her that he was not ashamed of them, when in
                        reality he could not but be ashamed. She felt that now was the time to bring
                        up this subject and dispose of it.
                    Said she graciously: "I'm sorry your father and mother
                        aren't living. I'd like to have known them."
                    He grew red. He was seeing a tiny, unkempt cottage in the outskirts of Wayne,
                        poor, even for that modest little town. He was seeing a bent, gaunt old
                        laborer in jeans, smoking a pipe on the doorsill; he was seeing, in the
                        kitchen-dining-room-sitting-room-parlor, disclosed by the open door, a
                        stout, aggressive-looking laborer's wife in faded calico, doing the
                        few thick china dishes in dented dishpan on rickety old table.
                        "Yes," said he, with not a trace of sincerity in his
                        ashamed, constrained voice, "I wish so, too."
                    She understood; she felt sorry for him, proud of herself. Was it not fine and
                        noble of her thus to condescend? "But there are your brothers and
                        sisters," she  went graciously on.
                        "I must meet them some time."
                    "Yes, some time," said he, laboriously pumping a thin,
                        watery pretense of enthusiasm into his voice.
                    She had done her duty by his dreadful, impossible family. She passed glibly
                        to other subjects. He was glad she had had the ladylike tact not to look at
                        him during the episode; he wouldn't have liked any human being to
                        see the look he knew his face was wearing.
                    In the press of agitating events, both forgot the incident — for the
                        time.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXI
                    A SWOOP AND A SCRATCH
                    When Molly Stillwater heard that Margaret and her "wild
                        man" had gone into the woods for their honeymoon she said:
                        "Rita's got to tame him and train him for human society.
                        So she's taken him where there are no neighbors to hear him scream
                        as — as —" Molly cast about in her stock of slang
                        for a phrase that was vigorous enough —"as she
                        'puts the boots' to him."
                    It was a shrewd guess; Margaret had decided that she could do more toward
                        "civilizing" him in those few first weeks and in solitude
                        than in years of teaching at odd times. In China, at the marriage feast, the
                        bride and the groom each struggle to he first to sit on the robe of the
                        other; the idea is that the winner will thenceforth rule. As the Chinese
                        have been many ages at the business of living, the custom should not be
                        dismissed too summarily as mere vain and heathenish superstition. At any
                        rate, Margaret had reasoned it out that she must get the advantage in the
                        impending initial  grapple and tussle of their
                        individualities, or choose between slavery and divorce. With him handicapped
                        by awe of her, by almost groveling respect for her ideas and feelings in all
                        man and woman matters, domestic and social, it seemed to her that she could
                        be worsted only by a miracle of stupidity on her part.
                    Never had he been so nearly "like an ordinary man — like a
                        gentleman"— as when they set out for the Adirondacks. She
                        could scarcely believe her own eyes, and she warmed to him and felt that she
                        had been greatly overestimating her task. He had on one of the suits he had
                        bought ready made that morning. It was of rough blue cloth — dark
                        blue — most becoming and well draped to show to advantage his
                        lithe, powerful frame, its sinews so much more manly-looking than the
                        muscularity of artificially got protuberances usually seen in the prosperous
                        classes in our Eastern cities. Grant had selected the suit, had selected all
                        the suits, and had superintended the fittings. Grant had also selected the
                        negligee shirt and the fashionable collar, and the bright, yet not gaudy,
                        tie, and Grant had selected the shoes that made his feet look like feet; and
                        Grant had conducted him to a proper barber, who had reduced the mop of hair
                        to proportion and order, and had restored its natural color and look of
                        vitality by a  thorough shampooing. In brief,
                        Grant had taken a gloomy pleasure in putting his successful rival through
                        the machine of civilization and bringing him out a city man, agreeable to
                        sight, smell and touch.
                    "Now," said he, when the process was finished,
                        "for Heaven's sake try to keep yourself up to the mark.
                        Take a cold bath every morning and a warm bath before dinner."
                    "I have been taking a cold bath every day since I got my private
                        bathroom," said Joshua, with honest pride.
                    "Then you're just as dirty as the average Englishman. He
                        takes a cold bath and fancies he's clean, when in fact
                        he's only clean-looking. Cold water merely stimulates. It takes
                        warm water and soap to keep a man clean."
                    "I'll bear that in mind," said Craig, with a
                        docility that flattered Grant as kindly attentions from a fierce-looking dog
                        flatter the timid stranger.
                    "And you must take care of your clothes, too," proceeded
                        the arbiter elegantiarum. "Fold your trousers
                        when you take them off, and have them pressed. Get your hair cut once a week
                        — have a regular day for it. Trim your nails twice a week.
                        I've got you a safety razor. Shave at least once a day —
                        first thing after  you get out of bed is the
                        best time. And change your linen every day. Don't think because a
                        shirt isn't downright dirty that you can pass it off for
                        fresh."
                    "Just write those things down," said Josh. "And
                        any others of the same kind you happen to think of. I hate to think what a
                        state I'd be in if I hadn't you. Don't imagine
                        I'm not appreciating the self-sacrifice."
                    Grant looked sheepish. But he felt that his shame was unwarranted, that he
                        really deserved Craig's tactless praise. So he observed virtuously:
                        "That's where we men are beyond the women. Now, if it were
                        one woman fixing up another, the chances are a thousand to one
                        she'd play the cat, and get clothes and give suggestions
                        that'd mean ruin."
                    It may not speak well for Arkwright's capacity for emotion, but it
                        certainly speaks well for his amiability and philanthropy that doing these
                        things for Craig had so far enlisted him that he was almost as anxious as
                        the fluttered and flustered bridegroom himself for the success of the
                        adventure. He wished he could go along, in disguise, as a sort of valet and
                        prime minister — to be ever near Josh to coach and advise and guide
                        him. For it seemed to him that success or failure in this honeymooning hung
                        upon the success or failure of Craig in practising the precepts that for
                        Grant and his kind  take precedence of the
                        moral code. He spent an earnest and exhausting hour in neatly and carefully
                        writing out the instructions, as Craig had requested. He performed this
                        service with a gravity that would move some people to the same sort of
                        laughter and wonder that is excited by the human doings of a trained
                        chimpanzee. But Craig — the wild man, the arch foe of effeteness,
                        the apostle of the simple life of yarn sock and tallowed boot and homespun
                        pants and hairy jaw — Craig accepted the service with heartfelt
                        thanks in his shaking voice and moist eye.
                    Thus the opening of the honeymoon was most auspicious. Craig, too much in awe
                        of Margaret to bother her, and busy about matters that concerned himself
                        alone, was a model of caution, restraint and civility. Margaret, apparently
                        calm, aloof and ladylike, was really watching his discreet conduct as a hawk
                        watches a sheltered hen; she began to indulge in pleasant hopes that
                        Joshua's wild days had come to an abrupt end. Why, he was even
                        restrained in conversation; he did not interrupt her often, instantly
                        apologized and forebore when he did; he poured out none of his wonted
                        sophomoric diatribes, sometimes sensible, more often inane, as the prattle
                        of a great man in his hour of relaxation is apt to be. She had to do most of
                        the talking —  and you may be sure
                        that she directed her conversation to conveying under an appearance of
                        lightness many valuable lessons in the true wisdom of life as it is revealed
                        only to the fashionable idle. She was careful not to overdo, not to provoke,
                        above all not to put him at his ease.
                    Her fiction of ill health, of threatened nervous prostration, also served to
                        free her from an overdose of his society during the long and difficult days
                        in that eventless solitude. He was all for arduous tramps through the woods,
                        for excursions in canoe under the fierce sun. She insisted on his enjoying
                        himself —"but I don't feel equal to any such
                        exertion. I simply must rest and take care of myself." She was
                        somewhat surprised at his simplicity in believing her health was anything
                        but robust, when her appearance gave the lie direct to her hints and
                        regrets. While he was off with one of the guides she stayed at camp,
                        reading, working at herself with the aid of Selina, revolving and maturing
                        her plans.
                    When she saw him she saw him at his best. He showed up especially well at
                        swimming. She was a notable figure herself in bathing suit, and could swim
                        in a nice, ladylike way; but he was a water creature — indeed,
                        seemed more at home in the water than on land. She liked to watch his long,
                        strong, narrow body cut  the surface of the
                        transparent lake with no loss of energy in splashing or display —
                        as easy and swift as a fish. She began to fear she had made a mistake in
                        selecting a place for her school for a husband. "He's in
                        his element — this wilderness," thought she, "not
                        mine. I'll take him back with everything still to be
                        done."
                    And, worst of all, she found herself losing her sense of proportion, her
                        respect for her fashionable idols. Those vast woods, that infinite summer
                        sky — they were giving her a new and far from practical point of
                        view — especially upon the petty trickeries and posturings of the
                        ludicrously self-important human specks that crawl about upon the earth and
                        hastily begin to act queer and absurd as soon as they come in sight of each
                        other. She found herself rapidly developing that latent
                        "sentimentality" which her grandmother had so often
                        rebuked and warned her against — which Lucia had insisted was her
                        real self. Her imagination beat the bars of the cage of convention in which
                        she had imprisoned it, and cried out for free, large, natural emotions
                        — those that make the blood leap and the flesh tingle, that put
                        music in the voice and softness in the glance and the intense joy of life in
                        the heart. And she began to revolve him before eyes that searched hopefully
                        for possibilities  of his giving her precisely
                        what her nerves craved.
                    "It would be queer, wouldn't it," she mused
                        — she was watching him swim —"if it should turn
                        out that I had come up here to learn, instead of to teach?"
                    And he — In large presences he was always at his best — in
                        the large situations of affairs, in these large, tranquillizing horizons of
                        nature. He, too, began to forget that she was a refined, delicate, sensitive
                        lady, with nerves that writhed under breaks in manners and could in no wise
                        endure a slip in grammar, unless, of course, it was one of those indorsed by
                        fashionable usage. His health came flooding and roaring back in its
                        fullness; and day by day the difficulty of restraining himself from loud
                        laughter and strong, plebeian action became more appalling to him. He would
                        leave the camp, set off at a run as soon as he got safely out of sight; and,
                        when he was sure of seclusion in distance, he would "cut
                        loose"— yell and laugh and caper like a true madman; tear
                        off his superfluous clothes, splash and thresh in some lonely lake like a
                        baby whale that has not yet had the primary lessons in how to behave. When
                        he returned to camp, subdued in manner, like a bad boy after recess, he was,
                        in fact, not one bit subdued beneath the surface, but the more fractious for
                        his  outburst. Each day his animal spirits
                        surged higher; each day her sway of awe and respect grew more precarious.
                        She thought his increasing silence, his really ridiculous formality of
                        politeness, his stammering and red-cheeked dread of intrusion meant a
                        deepening of the sense of the social gulf that rolled between them. She
                        recalled their conversation about his relatives. "Poor
                        fellow!" thought she. "I suppose it's quite
                        impossible for people of my sort to realize what a man of his birth and
                        bringing up feels in circumstances like these." Little did she
                        dream, in her exaltation of self-complacence and superiority, that the
                        "poor fellow's" clumsy formalities were the thin
                        cover for a tempest of wild-man's wild emotion.
                    Curiously, she "got on" his nerves before he on hers. It
                        was through her habit of rising late and taking hours to dress. Part of his
                        code of conduct — an interpolation of his own into the Arkwright
                        manual for a honeymooning gentleman — was that he ought to wait
                        until she was ready to breakfast, before breakfasting himself. Several
                        mornings she heard tempestuous sounds round the camp for two hours before
                        she emerged from her room. She knew these sounds came from him, though all
                        was quiet as soon as she appeared; and she very soon thought out the reason
                        for his uproar. Next,  his anger could not
                        subdue itself beyond surliness on her appearing, and the surliness lasted
                        through the first part of breakfast. Finally, one morning she heard him
                        calling her when she was about half-way through her leisurely toilette:
                        "Margaret! Margaret!"
                    
                    "Yes — what is it?"
                    "Do come out. You're missing the best part of the
                        day."
                    "All right — in a minute."
                    She continued with, if anything, a slackening of her exertions; she appeared
                        about an hour after she had said "in a minute." He was
                        ready to speak, and speak sharply. But one glance at her, at the exquisite
                        toilette — of the woods, yet of the civilization that dwells in
                        palaces and reposes languidly upon the exertions of menials — at
                        her cooling, subduing eyes, so graciously haughty — and he shut his
                        lips together and subsided.
                    The next morning it was a knock at her door just as she was waking —
                        or had it waked her? "Yes — what is it?"
                    "Do come out! I'm half starved."
                    The voice was pleading, not at all commanding, not at all the aggressive,
                        dictatorial voice of the Josh Craig of less than a month before. But it was
                        distinctly reminiscent of that Craig; it was plainly, the first faint
                         murmur, not of rebellion, but of the spirit
                        of rebellion. Margaret retorted with an icily polite, "Please
                        don't wait for me."
                    "Yes, I'll wait. But be as quick as you can."
                    Margaret neither hastened nor dallied. She came forth at the end of an hour
                        and a half. Josh, to her surprise, greeted her as if she had not kept him
                        waiting an instant; not a glance of sullenness, no suppressed irritation in
                        his voice. Next morning the knock was a summons.
                    "Margaret! I say, Margaret!" came in tones made bold and
                        fierce by hunger. "I've been waiting nearly two
                        hours."
                    "For what?" inquired she frigidly from the other side of
                        the door.
                    "For breakfast."
                    "Oh! Go ahead with it. I'm not even up yet."
                    "You've been shut in there ten hours."
                    "What of it?" retorted she sharply. "Go away, and
                        don't bother me."
                    He had put her into such an ill humor that when she came out, two hours
                        later, her stormy brow, her gleaming hazel eyes showed she was
                        "looking for trouble." He was still breakfastless
                        — he well knew how to manipulate his weaknesses so that his
                        purposes could cow  them, could even use them.
                        He answered her lowering glance with a flash of his blue-green eyes like
                        lightning from the dark head of a thunder-cloud. "Do you know it is
                        nine o'clock?" demanded he.
                    "So early? I try to get up late so that the days won't seem
                        so long."
                    He abandoned the field to her, and she thought him permanently beaten. She
                        had yet to learn the depths of his sagacity that never gave battle until the
                        time was auspicious.
                    Two mornings later he returned to the attack.
                    "I see your light burning every night until midnight," said
                        he — at breakfast with her, after the usual wait.
                    "I read myself to sleep," explained she.
                    "Do you think that's good for you?"
                    "I don't notice any ill effects."
                    "You say your health doesn't improve as rapidly as you
                        hoped."
                    Check! She reddened with guilt and exasperation. "What a sly
                        trick!" thought she. She answered him with a cold: "I
                        always have read myself to sleep, and I fancy I always shall."
                    "If you went to sleep earlier," observed he, his air
                        unmistakably that of the victor conscious of victory,  "you'd not keep me raging round two or three
                        hours for breakfast."
                    "How often I've asked you not to wait for me! I prefer to
                        breakfast alone, anyhow. It's the dreadful habit of breakfasting
                        together that causes people to get on together so badly."
                    "I'd not feel right," said he, moderately, but
                        firmly, "if I didn't see you at breakfast."
                    She sat silent — thinking. He felt what she was thinking —
                        how common this was, how "middle class," how
                        "bourgeois," she was calling it.
                        "Bourgeois" was her favorite word for all that she
                        objected to in him, for all she was trying to train out of him by what she
                        regarded as most artistically indirect lessons. He felt that their talk
                        about his family, what he had said, had shown he felt, was recurring to her.
                        He grew red, burned with shame from head to foot.
                    "What a fool, what a pup I was!" he said to himself.
                        "If she had been a real lady — no, by gad — a
                        real woman — she'd have shown that she
                        despised me."
                    Again and again that incident had come back to him. It had been, perhaps, the
                        most powerful factor in his patience with her airs and condescensions. He
                        felt that it, the lowest dip of his degradation in snobism, had  given her the right to keep him in his place.
                        It seemed to him one of those frightful crimes against self-respect which
                        can never he atoned, and, had as he thought it from the standpoint of good
                        sense as to the way to get on with her, he suffered far more because it was
                        such a stinging, scoffing denial of all his pretenses of personal pride.
                        "Her sensibilities have been too blunted by association with those
                        Washington vulgarians," he reasoned, "for her to realize
                        the enormity of my offense, but she realizes enough to look down at me more
                        contemptuously every time she recalls it." However, the greater the
                        blunder the greater the necessity of repairing. He resolutely thrust his
                        self-abasing thoughts to the background of his mind, and began afresh.
                    "I'm sure," said he, "you'd not
                        mind, once you got used to it."
                    She was startled out of her abstraction. "Used to —
                        what?" she inquired.
                    "To getting up early."
                    "Oh!" She gave a relieved laugh. "Still harping on
                        that. How persistent you are!"
                    "You could accomplish twice as much if you got up early and made a
                        right start."
                    She frowned slightly. "Couldn't think of it," said
                             she, in the tone of one whose forbearance
                        is about at an end. "I hate the early morning."
                    "We usually hate what's best for us. But, if we're
                        sensible, we do it until it becomes a habit that we don't mind
                        — or positively like."
                    This philosophy of the indisputable and the sensible brimmed the measure.
                        "What would you think of me," said she, in her
                        pleasantest, most deliberately irritating way in the world, "if I
                        were to insist that you get up late and breakfast late? You should learn to
                        let live as well as to live. You are too fond of trying to compel everybody
                        to do as you wish."
                    "I make 'em see that what I wish is what they ought.
                        That's not compelling."
                    "It's even more unpopular."
                    "I'm not looking for popularity, but for
                        success."
                    "Well, please, don't annoy me in the mornings
                        hereafter."
                    "You don't seem to realize you've renounced your
                        foolish idlers and all their ways, and have joined the working
                        classes." His good humor had come back with breakfast; he had
                        finished two large trout, much bread and marmalade and coffee — and
                        it had given her a pleasure that somehow seemed vulgar and forbidden to see
                        him eat so vastly, with such obvious delight. As  he made his jest about her entry into the working classes
                        — she who suggested a queen bee, to employ the labors of a whole
                        army of willing toilers, while she herself toiled not — he was
                        tilted back at his ease, smoking a cigarette and watching the sunbeams
                        sparkle in the waves of her black hair like jewels showered there.
                        "You're surely quite well again," he went on, the
                        trend of his thought so hidden that he did not see it himself.
                    "I don't feel especially well," said she,
                        instantly on guard.
                    He laughed. "You'd not dare say that to yourself in the
                        mirror. You have wonderful color. Your eyes — there never was
                        anything so clear. You were always straight — that was one of the
                        things I admired about you. But now, you seem to be straight without the
                        slightest effort — the natural straightness of a
                        sapling."
                    This was most agreeable, for she loved compliments, liked to discover that
                        the charms which she herself saw in herself were really there. But
                        encouraging such talk was not compatible with the course she had laid out
                        for herself with him. She continued silent and cold.
                    "If you'd only go to sleep early, and get up early,  and drop all that the railway train carried
                        us away from, you'd be as happy as the birds and the deer and the
                        fish."
                    "I shall. not change my habits," said she tartly.
                        "I hope you'll drop the subject."
                    He leaned across the table toward her, the same charm now in his face and in
                        his voice that had drawn her when she first heard him in public speech.
                        "Let's suppose I'm a woodchopper, and you are my
                        wife. We've never been anywhere but just here. We're going
                        to live here all our lives — just you and I — and no one
                        else — and we don't want any one else. And we love each
                        other—"
                    It was very alluring, but there was duty frowning upon her yielding senses.
                        "Please don't let that smoke drift into my face,"
                        said she crossly. "It's choking me."
                    He flung away the cigarette. "Beg pardon," he muttered,
                        between anger and humility. "Thought you didn't mind
                        smoking."
                    She was ashamed of herself, and grew still angrier. "If
                        you'd only think about some one beside yourself once in a
                        while," said she. "You quite wear people out, with your
                        everlasting thinking and talking about yourself."
                    
                    "You'd better stop that midnight reading," flared
                        he. "Your temper is going to the devil."
                    She rose with great dignity; with an expression that seemed to send him
                        tumbling and her soaring she went into the house.
                    In some moods he would have lain where he fell for quite a while. But his
                        mood of delight in her charms as a woman had completely eclipsed his
                        deference for her charms as a lady. He hesitated only a second, then
                        followed her, overtook her at the entrance to her room. She, hearing him
                        coming, did not face about and put him back in his place with one haughty
                        look. Instead, she in impulsive, most ill-timed panic, quickened her step.
                        When the woman flees, the man, if there be any manhood in him, pursues. He
                        caught her, held her fast.
                    "Let me go!" she cried, not with the compelling force of
                        offended dignity, but with the hysterical ineffectiveness of terror.
                        "You are rough. You hurt."
                    He laughed, turned her about in his arms until she was facing him.
                        "The odor of those pines, out there," he said,
                        "makes me drunk, and the odor of your hair makes me
                        insane." And he was kissing her — those fierce, strong
                        caresses that at once repelled and compelled her.
                    
                    "I hate you!" she panted. "I hate
                        you!"
                    "Oh, no, you don't," retorted he. "That
                        isn't what's in your eyes." And he held her so
                        tightly that she was almost crying out with pain.
                    "Please — Please!" she gasped. And she wrenched to
                        free herself. One of his hands slipped, his nail tore a long gash in her
                        neck; the blood spurted out, she gave a loud cry, an exaggerated cry
                        — for the pain, somehow, had a certain pleasure in it. He released
                        her, stared vacantly at the wound he had made. She rushed into her room,
                        slammed the door and locked it.
                    "Margaret!" he implored.
                    She did not answer; he knew she would not. He sat miserably at her door for
                        an hour, then wandered out into the woods, and stayed there until
                        dinner-time.
                    When he came in she was sitting by the lake, reading a French novel. To him,
                        who knew only his own language, there was something peculiarly refined and
                        elegant about her ability at French; he thought, as did she, that she spoke
                        French like a native, though, in fact, her accent was almost British, and
                        her understanding of it was just about what can be expected in a person who
                        has never made a thorough study of any language. As he advanced toward her
                        she seemed unconscious of his presence. But she was seeing him distinctly,
                        and so  ludicrous a figure of shy and sheepish
                        contrition was he making that she with difficulty restrained her laughter.
                        He glanced guiltily at the long, red scratch on the pallid whiteness of her
                        throat.
                    "I'm ashamed of myself," said he humbly.
                        "I'm not fit to touch a person like you. I — I
                        —"
                    She was not so mean as she had thought she would be. "It was
                        nothing," said she pleasantly, if distantly. "Is dinner
                        ready?"
                    Once more she had him where she wished — abject, apologetic,
                        conscious of the high honor of merely being permitted to associate with her.
                        She could relax and unbend again; she was safe from his cyclones.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXII
                    GETTING ACQUAINTED
                    Her opportunity definitely to begin her campaign to lift him up out of
                        politics finally came. She had been doing something in that direction almost
                        every day. She must be careful not to alarm his vanity of being absolute
                        master of his own destiny. The idea of leaving politics and practising law
                        in New York, must seem to originate and to grow in his own brain; she would
                        seem to be merely assenting. Also, it was a delicate matter because the
                        basic reason for the change was money; and it was her cue as a lady, refined
                        and sensitive and wholly free from sordidness, so to act that he would think
                        her loftily indifferent to money. She had learned from dealing with her
                        grandmother that the way to get the most money was by seeming ignorant of
                        money values, a cover behind which she could shame Madam Bowker into giving
                        a great deal more than she would have given on direct and specific demand.
                        For instance, she could get more from the old lady than could her mother,
                        who explained just what she wanted  the money
                        for and acted as if the giving were a great favor, No, she must never get
                        with him on a footing where he could discuss money matters frankly with her;
                        she must simply make him realize how attractive luxury was, how necessary it
                        was to her, how confidently she looked to him to provide it, how blindly, in
                        her ignorance of money and all sordid matters, she trusted to him to
                        maintain her as a wife such as she must be maintained. She knew she did not
                        understand him thoroughly —"we've been so
                        differently brought up." But she felt that the kind of life that
                        pleased her and dazzled him must be the kind he really wished to lead
                        — and would see he wished to lead, once he extricated himself, with
                        her adroit assistance, from the kind of life to which his vociferous
                        pretenses had committed him.
                    Whether her subtleties in furtherance of creating a sane state of mind in him
                        had penetrated to him, she could not tell. In the earliest step of their
                        acquaintance she had studied him as a matrimonial possibility, after the
                        habit of young women with each unattached man they add to their list of
                        acquaintances. And she had then discovered that whenever he was seriously
                        revolving any matter he never spoke of it; he would be voluble about
                        everything and anything else under the  sun,
                        would seem to be unbosoming himself of his bottommost secret of thought and
                        action, but would not let escape so much as the smallest hint of what was
                        really engaging his whole mind. It was this discovery that had set her to
                        disregarding his seeming of colossal, of fatuous egotism, and had started
                        her toward an estimate of him wholly different from the current estimate.
                        Now, was he thinking of their future, or was it some other matter that
                        occupied his real mind while he talked on and on, usually of himself? She
                        could not tell; she hoped it was, but she dared not try, to find out.
                    They were at their mail, which one of the guides had just brought. He
                        interrupted his reading to burst out: "How they do tempt a man!
                        Now, there's — and he struck the open letter in his hand
                        with a flourishing, egotistic gesture —"an offer from the
                        General Steel Company. They want me as their chief counsel at fifty thousand
                        a year and the privilege of doing other work that doesn't
                        conflict."
                    Fifty thousand a year! Margaret discreetly veiled her glistening eyes.
                    "It's the fourth offer of the same sort," he went
                        on, "since we've been up here — since it was
                        given out that I'd be Attorney-General as soon as old Stillwater
                        retires. The people pay me seventy-five hundred a year.
                    
                    They take all my time. They make it impossible for me to do anything outside.
                        They watch and suspect and grumble. And I could be making my two hundred
                        thousand a year or more."
                    He was rattling on complacently, patting himself on the back, and, in his
                        effort to pose as a marvel of patriotic self-sacrifice, carefully avoiding
                        any suggestion that mere money seemed to him a very poor thing beside the
                        honor of high office, the direction of great affairs, the flattering columns
                        of newspaper praise and censure, the general agitation of eighty millions
                        over him. "Sometimes I'm almost tempted to drop
                        politics," he went on, "and go in for the spoils. What do
                        you think?"
                    She was taken completely off guard. She hadn't the faintest notion
                        that this was his way of getting at her real mind. But she was too feminine
                        to walk straight into the trap. "I don't know,"
                        said she, with well-simulated indifference, as if her mind were more than
                        half on her own letter. "I haven't given the matter any
                        thought." Carelessly: "Where would we live if you accepted
                        this offer?"
                    "New York, of course. You prefer Washington, don't
                        you?"
                    "No, I believe I'd like New York better. I've a
                             great many friends there. While there
                        isn't such a variety of people, the really nice New Yorkers are the
                        most attractive people in America. And one can live so well in New
                        York."
                    "I'd sink into a forgotten obscurity," pursued the
                        crafty Joshua. "I'd be nothing but a corporation lawyer, a
                        well-paid fetch-and-carry for the rich thieves that huddle together
                        there."
                    "Oh, you'd be famous wherever you are, I'm
                        sure," replied she with judicious enthusiasm. "Besides,
                        you'd have fame with the real people."
                    His head reared significantly. But, to draw her on, he said:
                        "That's true. That's true," as if
                        reflecting favorably.
                    "Yes, I think I'd like New York," continued she,
                        all unsuspicious. "I don't care much for politics. I hate
                        to think of a man of your abilities at the mercy of the mob. In New York you
                        could make a really great career."
                    "Get rich — be right in the social swim — and you,
                        too," suggested he.
                    "It certainly is very satisfactory to feel one is of the best
                        people. And I'm sure you'd not care to have me mix up with
                        all sorts, as politicians' wives have to do."
                    He laughed at her — the loud, coarse Josh Craig  outburst. "You're stark mad on the subject
                        of class distinctions, aren't you?" said he.
                        "You'll learn some day to look on that sort of thing as
                        you would on an attempt to shovel highways and set up sign-posts in the open
                        sea. Your kind of people are like the children that build forts out of sand
                        at the seashore. Along comes a wave and washes it all away. . . .
                        You'd be willing for me to abandon my career and become a rich
                        nonentity in New York?"
                    His tone was distinctly offensive. "I don't look at it in
                        that way," said she coldly. "Really, I care nothing about
                        it." And she resumed the reading of her letter.
                    "Do you expect me to believe," demanded he, excited and
                        angry —" do you expect me to believe you've not
                        given the subject of our future a thought?"
                    She continued reading. Such a question in such a tone called for the rebuke
                        of an ignoring silence. Also, deep down in her nature, down where the rock
                        foundations of courage should have been but were not, there had begun an
                        ominous trembling.
                    "You know what my salary is?"
                    "You just mentioned it."
                    "You know it's to be only five hundred dollars a year more
                        after January?"
                    
                    "I knew the Cabinet people got eight thousand." She was
                        gazing dreamily out toward the purple horizon, seemed as far as its
                        mountains from worldliness.
                    "Hadn't you thought out how we were to live on that sum?
                        You are aware I've practically nothing but my salary."
                    "I suppose I ought to think of those things — ought to have
                        thought of them," replied she with a vague, faint smile.
                        "But really — well, we've been brought up rather
                        carelessly — I suppose some people would call it badly —
                        and —"
                    "You take me for a fool, don't you?" he
                        interrupted roughly.
                    She elevated her eyebrows.
                    "I wish I had a quarter for every row between your people and your
                        grandmother on the subject of money. I wish I had a dollar for every row you
                        and she have had about it."
                    He again vented his boisterous laugh; her nerves had not been so rasped since
                        her wedding day. "Come, Margaret," he went on, "I
                        know you've been brought up differently from me. I know I seem
                        vulgar to you in many ways. But because I show you I appreciate those
                        differences, don't imagine I'm an utter ass. And  I certainly should be if I didn't
                        know that your people are human beings."
                    She looked guilty as well as angry now. She felt she had gone just the one
                        short step too far in her aristocratic assumptions.
                    He went on in the tone of one who confidently expects that there will be no
                        more nonsense: "When you married me you had some sort of idea how
                        we'd live."
                    "I assumed you had thought out those things or you'd not
                        have married me," cried she hotly. In spite of her warnings to
                        herself she couldn't keep cool. His manner, his words were so
                        inflammatory that she could not hold herself from jumping into the mud to do
                        battle with him. She abandoned her one advantage — high ground; she
                        descended to his level. You knew the sort of woman I was," she
                        pursued. "You undertook the responsibility. I assume you are man
                        enough to fulfill it."
                    He felt quite at home with her now. "And you?" rasped he.
                        "What responsibility did you
                        undertake?"
                    She caught her breath, flamed scarlet.
                    "Now let us hear what wife means in the dictionary of a lady. Come,
                        let's hear it!"
                    She was silent.
                    
                    "I'm not criticising," he went on;
                        "I'm simply inquiring. What do you think it means to be a
                        wife?
                    Still she could think of no answer.
                    "It must mean something," urged he. "Tell me.
                        I've got to learn some time, haven't I?"
                    "I think," said she, with a tranquil haughtiness which she
                        hoped would carry off the weakness of the only reply she could get together
                        on such short notice, "among our sort of people the wife is
                        expected to attend to the social part of the life."
                    He waited for more — waited with an expression that suggested
                        thirst. But no more came. "Is that all?" he inquired, and
                        waited again — in vain. "Yes? . . . Well, tell me, where
                        in thunder does the husband come in? He puts up the cash for the wife to
                        spend in dressing and amusing herself — is that all?"
                    "It is generally assumed," said she, since she had to say
                        something or let the case go against her by default, "that the
                        social side of life can be very useful in furthering a man."
                    He vented a scornful sound that was like a hoot. "In furthering a
                        lick-spittle — yes. But not a man!"
                    
                    "Our ideas on some subjects are hopelessly apart."
                    She suddenly realized that this whole conversation had been deliberately
                        planned by him; that he had, indeed,  been
                        debating within himself their future life, and that he had decided that the
                        time was ripe for a frank talk with her. It angered her that she had not
                        realized this sooner, that she had been drawn from her position, had been
                        forced to discuss with him on his own terms and at his own time and in his
                        own manner. She felt all the fiery indignation of the schemer who has been
                        outwitted.
                    "Your tone," said she, all ice, "makes it
                        impossible for a well-bred person to discuss with you. Let us talk of
                        something else, or of nothing at all."
                    "No. Let's thresh it out now that we've begun. And
                        do try to keep your temper. There's no reason for anger.
                        We've got to go back to civilization. We've got to live
                        after we get there. We want to live comfortably, as satisfactorily for both
                        as our income permits. Now, what shall we do? How shall we invest our eight
                        thousand a year — and whatever your grand-mother allows you? I
                        don't need much. I'll turn the salary over to you.
                        You're entirely welcome to all there is above my board and
                        clothes."
                    This sounded generous and, so, irritated Margaret the more. "You
                        know very well we can't live like decent people on twelve or
                        fifteen thousand a year in Washington."
                    
                    "You knew that before you married me. What did you have in
                        mind?"
                    Silence.
                    "Why do you find it difficult to be frank with me?"
                    His courteous, appealing tone and manner made it impossible to indulge in the
                        lie direct or the lie evasive. She continued silent, raging inwardly against
                        him for being so ungenerous, so ungentlemanly as to put her in such a
                        pitiful posture, one vastly different from that she had prearranged for
                        herself when "the proper time" came.
                    "You had something in mind," he persisted. "What
                        is it?"
                    "Grandmother wishes us to live with her," she said with
                        intent to flank.
                    "Would you like that?" he inquired; and her very heart
                        seemed to stand still in horror at his tone. It was a tone that suggested
                        that the idea was attractive!
                    She debated. He must be "bluffing" — he surely
                        must. She rallied her courage and pushed on: "It's
                        probably the best we can do in the circumstances. We'd have almost
                        nothing left after we'd paid our rent if we set up for ourselves.
                        Even if I were content to pinch and look a frump and never go out,
                        you'd not tolerate it."
                    
                    "Nothing could be more galling," said he, after reflecting,
                        "than what people would say if we lived off your grandmother. No,
                        going there is unthinkable. I like her, and we'd get on well
                        together—"
                    Margaret laughed. "Like two cats drowning in a bag."
                    "Not at all," protested he sincerely. "Your
                        grand-mother and I understand each other — better than you and I
                        — at least, better than you understand me. However, I'll
                        not permit our being dependents of hers."
                    Margaret had a queer look. Was not her taking enough money from the old lady
                        to pay all her personal expenses — was not that dependence?
                    "We'll return to that later," continued he, and
                        she had an uncomfortable sense that he was answering her thought.
                        "To go back to your idea in marrying me. You expected me to leave
                        politics."
                    "Why do you think that?" exclaimed she.
                    "You told me."
                    
                        "I!"
                    
                    "You, yourself. Have you not said you could not live on what I get
                        as a public man, and that if I were a gentleman I'd not expect you
                        to?"
                    Margaret stared foolishly at this unescapable inference from her own
                        statements and admissions during his 
                        cross-examination. She began to feel helpless in his hands — and
                        began to respect him whom she could not fool.
                    "I know," he went on, "you're too
                        intelligent not to have appreciated that either we must live on my salary or
                        I must leave public life."
                    He laughed — a quiet, amused laugh, different from any she had ever
                        heard from him. Evidently, Joshua Craig in intimacy was still another person
                        from the several Joshua Craigs she already knew. "And,"
                        said he, in explanation of his laughter, "I thought you married me
                        because I had political prospects. I fancied you had real ambition. . . . I
                        might have known! According to the people of your set, to be in that set is
                        to have achieved the summit of earthly ambition — to dress, to roll
                        about in carriages, to go from one fussy house to another, from one showy
                        entertainment to another, to eat stupid dinners, and caper or match picture
                        cards afterward, to grin and chatter, to do nothing useful or even
                        interesting —" He laughed again, one of his old-time,
                        boisterous outbursts. But it seemed to her to fit in, to be the laughter of
                        mountain and forest and infinity of space at her and her silly friends.
                        "And you picture me taking permanent part in that
                        show, or toiling to find you the money to do it with. Me!
                        . . .  Merely because I've been, for
                        a moment, somewhat bedazzled by its cheap glitter."
                    Margaret felt that he had torn off the mask and had revealed his true self.
                        But greater than her interest in this new personality was her anger at
                        having been deceived — self-deceived. "You asked me how
                        I'd like to live," cried she, color high and eyes filled
                        with tears of rage. "I answered your question, and you grow
                        insulting."
                    "I'm doing the best I know how," said he.
                    After a moment she got herself under control. "Then," asked
                        she, "what have you to propose?"
                    "I can't tell you just now," replied he, and his
                        manner was most disquieting. "To-morrow — or next
                        day."
                    "Don't you think I'm right about it being
                        humiliating for us to go back to Washington and live poorly?"
                    "Undoubtedly. I've felt that from the
                        beginning."
                    "Then you agree with me?"
                    "Not altogether," said he. And there was a quiet sternness
                        in his smile, in his gentle tone, that increased her alarms.
                        "I've been hoping, rather," continued he,
                        "that you'd take an interest in my career."
                    
                    "I do," cried she.
                    "Not in my career," replied he, those
                        powerful, hewn features of his sad and bitter. "In your own
                        — in a career in which I'd become as contemptible as the
                        rest of the men you know — a poor thing like Grant Arkwright.
                        Worse, for I'd do very badly what he has learned to do
                        well."
                    "To be a well-bred, well-mannered gentleman is no small
                        achievement," said she with a sweetness that was designed to turn
                        to gall after it reached him.
                    He surveyed her tranquilly. She remembered that look; it was the same he had
                        had the morning he met her at the Waldorf elevator and took her away and
                        married her. She knew that the crisis had come and that he was ready. And
                        she? Never had she felt less capable, less resolute.
                    "I've been doing a good deal of thinking —
                        thinking about us — these last few days — since I
                        inflicted that scratch on you," said he. "Among other
                        things, I've concluded you know as little about what constitutes a
                        real gentleman as I do; also, that you have no idea what it is in you that
                        makes you a lady — so far as you are one."
                    She glanced at him in fright, and that expression of hers betrayed the
                        fundamental weakness in her — the 
                        weakness that underlies all character based upon the achievements of others,
                        not upon one's own. Margaret was three generations away from
                        self-reliance. Craig's speech sounded like a deliberate insult,
                        deliberate attempt to precipitate a quarrel, an estrangement. There had been
                        nothing in her training to prepare her for such a rude, courage-testing
                        event as that.
                    "Do you remember — it was the day we married — the
                        talk we had about my relatives?"
                    She colored, was painfully embarrassed, strove in vain to conceal it.
                        "About your relatives?" she said inquiringly.
                    He made an impatient gesture. "I know you remember. Well, if I had
                        been a gentleman, or had known what gentleman meant, I'd never have
                        said — or, rather, looked what I did then. If you had known what a
                        gentleman is, if you had been a lady, you'd have been unable to go
                        on with a man who had shown himself such a blackguard."
                    "You are unjust to us both," she eagerly interrupted.
                        "Joshua — you —"
                    "Don't try to excuse me — or yourself,"
                        said he peremptorily. "Now, you thought what I showed that day
                        — my being ashamed of honester, straighter — more American
                        — people than you or I will ever be —  you thought that was the real me. Thank God, it
                        wasn't. But" — he pointed a fascinating
                        forefinger at her — "it was the me I'd be if you
                        had your way."
                    She could not meet his eyes.
                    "I see you understand," said he earnestly.
                        "That's a good sign."
                    "Yes, I do understand," said she. Her voice was low and her
                        head was still hanging. "I'm glad you've said
                        this. I — I respect you for it."
                    "Don't fret about me," said he curtly.
                        "Fret about your own melancholy case. What do your impulses of
                        decent feeling amount to, anyway? An inch below the surface you're
                        all for the other sort of thing — the cheap and nasty. If you could
                        choose this minute you'd take the poorest of those drawing-room
                        marionettes before the finest real man, if he didn't know how to
                        wear his clothes or had trouble with his grammar."
                    She felt that there was more than a grain of truth in this; at any rate,
                        denial would be useless, as his tone was the tone of settled conviction.
                    "We've made a false start," proceeded he. He rose,
                        lighted a cigarette. "We're going to start all over again.
                        I'll tell you what I'm going to do about it in a day or
                        two."
                    
                    And he strolled away to the landing. She saw him presently enter a canoe;
                        under his powerful, easy stroke it shot away, to disappear behind the
                        head-land. She felt horribly lonely and oppressed — as if she would
                        never see him again. "He's quite capable of leaving me
                        here to find my way back to Washington alone — quite
                        capable!" And her lip curled.
                    But the scorn was all upon the surface. Beneath there was fear and respect
                        — the fear and respect which those demoralized by unearned luxury
                        and by the purposeless life always feel when faced by strength and
                        self-reliance in the crises where externals avail no more than its paint and
                        its bunting a warship in battle. She knew she had been treating him as no
                        self-respecting man who knew the world would permit any woman to treat him.
                        She knew her self-respect should have kept her from treating him thus, even
                        if he, in his ignorance of her world and awe of it, would permit. But more
                        than from shame at vain self-abasement her chagrin came from the sense of
                        having played her game so confidently, so carelessly, so stupidly that he
                        had seen it. She winced as she recalled how shrewdly and swiftly he had got
                        to the very bottom of her, especially of her selfishness in planning to use
                        him with no thought for  his good. Yet so many
                        women thus used their husbands; why not she? "I suppose I began too
                        soon. . . . No, not too soon, but too frigidly." The word seemed to
                        her to illuminate the whole situation. "That's
                        it!" she cried. "How stupid of me!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIII
                    WHAT THE MOON SAW AND DID
                    Physical condition is no doubt the dominant factor in human thought and
                        action. State of soul is, as Doctor Schulze has observed, simply the
                        egotistic human vanity for state of body. If the health of the human race
                        were better, if sickness, the latent and the revealed together, were not all
                        but universal, human relations would be wonderfully softened, sweetened and
                        simplified. Indigestion, with its various ramifications, is alone
                        responsible for most of the crimes, catastrophes and cruelties, public and
                        private discord; for it tinges human thought and vision with pessimistic
                        black or bloody red or envious green or degenerate yellow instead of the
                        normal, serene and invigorating white. All the world's great public
                        disturbers have been diseased. As for private life, its bad of all degrees
                        could, as to its deeplying, originating causes, be better diagnosed by
                        physician than by psychologist.
                    Margaret, being in perfect physical condition, was deeply depressed for only
                        a short time after the immediate  cause of her
                        mood ceased to be active. An hour after Joshua had revealed himself in
                        thunder and lightning, and had gone, she was almost serene again, her
                        hopefulness of healthy youth and her sense of humor in the ascendent. Their
                        stay in the woods was drawing to an end. Soon they would be off for Lenox,
                        for her Uncle Dan's, where there would be many people about and
                        small, perhaps no, opportunity for direct and quick action and result. She
                        reviewed her conduct and felt that she had no reason to reproach herself for
                        not having made an earlier beginning in what she now saw should have been
                        her tactics with her "wild man." How could she, inexpert,
                        foresee what was mockingly obvious to hindsight? Only by experiment and
                        failure is the art of success learned. Her original plan had been the best
                        possible, taking into account her lack of knowledge of male nature and the
                        very misleading indications of his real character she had got from him. In
                        her position would not almost any one have decided that the right way to
                        move him was by holding him at respectful distance and by indirect talk,
                        with the inevitable drift of events doing the principal work —
                        gradually awakening him to the responsibilities and privileges which his
                        entry into a higher social station implied?
                    But no time must now be lost; the new way, which  experience had revealed, must be taken forthwith and traveled by forced
                        marches. Before they left the woods she must have led him through all the
                        gradations of domestic climate between their present frosty if kindly
                        winter, and summer, or, at least, a very balmy spring. From what she knew of
                        his temperament she guessed that once she began to thaw he would forthwith
                        whirl her into July. She must be prepared to accept that, however —
                        repellent though the thought was — she assured herself it was most
                        repellent. She prided herself on her skill at catching and checking herself
                        in self-deception; but it somehow did not occur to her to contrast her
                        rather listless previous planning with the energy and interest she at once
                        put into this project for supreme martyrdom, as she regarded it.
                    When he came back that evening she was ready. But not he; he stalked in,
                        sulking and blustering, tired, ignoring her, doing all the talking himself,
                        and departing for bed as soon as dinner was over. She felt as if he had
                        repulsed her, though, in fact, her overtures were wholly internal and could
                        not, by any chance, have impressed him. Bitter against him and dreading the
                        open humiliation she would have to endure before she could make one so
                        self-absorbed see what she was about, she put out her light early, with
                        intent to rise when he did  and be at
                        breakfast before he could finish. She lay awake until nearly dawn, then fell
                        into a deep sleep. When she woke it was noon; she felt so greatly refreshed
                        that her high good humor would not suffer her to be deeply resentful against
                        him for this second failure. "No matter," reflected she.
                        "He might have suspected me if I'd done anything so
                        revolutionary as appear at breakfast. I'll make my beginning at
                        lunch."
                    She was now striving, with some success, to think of him as a tyrant whom
                        she, luckless martyr, must cajole. "I'm going the way of
                        all the married women," thought she. "They soon find
                        there's no honorable way to get their rights from their masters,
                        find they simply have to degrade themselves." Yes, he was forcing
                        her to degrade herself, to simulate affection when the reverse was in her
                        heart. Well, she would make him pay dearly for it — some day.
                        Meanwhile she must gain her point. "If I don't,
                        I'd better not have married. To be Mrs. is something, but not much
                        if I'm the creature of his whims."
                    She put off lunch nearly an hour; but he did not come, did not reappear until
                        dinner was waiting. "I've been over to town," he
                        explained, "doing a lot of telegraphing that was
                        necessary." He was in vast spirits, delighted with himself, volubly
                        boastful, so full of  animal health and life
                        and of joy in the prospect of food and sleep that mental worries were as
                        foreign to him as to the wild geese flying overhead.
                    He snuffed the air in which the odor of cooking was mingled deliciously with
                        the odor of the pines. "If they don't hurry up
                        dinner," said he, "I'll rush in and eat off the
                        stove. We used to at home sometimes. It's great fun."
                    She smiled tolerantly. "I've missed you," said
                        she, and she was telling herself that this statement of a literal truth was
                        the quintessence of hypocritical cajolery. "You might have taken me
                        along."
                    He gave her a puzzled look. "Oh," said he finally,
                        "you've been thinking over what I said."
                    This was disconcerting; but she contrived to smile with winning frankness.
                        "Yes," replied she. "I've been very
                        wrong, I see." She felt proud of the adroitness of this —
                        an exact truth, yet wholly misleading.
                    His expression told her that he was congratulating himself on his wisdom and
                        success in having given her a sharp talking to; that he was thinking it had
                        brought her to her senses, had restored her respect for him, had opened the
                        way for her love for him to begin to show itself — that love which
                        he so firmly believed in, egotist that he was! Could anything be more
                        infuriating?  Yet — after all, what
                        difference did it make, so long as he yielded? And once she had him
                        enthralled, then — ah, yes — then!
                        Meanwhile she must remember that the first principle of successful deception
                        is self-deception, and must try to convince herself that she was what she
                        was pretending to be.
                    Dinner was served, and he fell to like a harvest hand. As he had the habit,
                        when he was very hungry, of stuffing his mouth far too full for speech, she
                        was free to carry out her little program of encouraging talk and action. As
                        she advanced from hesitating compliment to flattery, to admiring glances, to
                        lingering look, she marveled at her facility. "I suppose ages and
                        ages of dreadful necessity have made it second nature to every woman, even
                        the best of us," reflected she. If he weren't a handsome,
                        superior man she might be finding it more difficult; also, no doubt the
                        surroundings, so romantic, so fitting as background for his ruggedness, were
                        helping her to dexterity and even enthusiasm.
                    It was amusing, how she deceived herself — for the harmless
                        self-deceptions of us chronic mummers are always amusing. The fact was, this
                        melting and inviting mood had far more of nature and sincerity in it than
                        there had been in her icy aloofness. Icy aloofness, except in the heroines
                        of aristocratic novels, is a state 
                        
                            "She . . . listened with a sense of
                                delight."
                        
                         of mind compatible only with extreme
                        stupidity or with some one of those organic diseases that sour the
                        disposition. Never had she been in such health as in that camp, never so
                        buoyant, never had merely being alive been so deliciously intoxicating; the
                        scratch he had made on her throat had healed in twenty-four hours, had all
                        but disappeared in seventy-two. Never had she known to such a degree what a
                        delight a body can be, the sense of its eagerness to bring to the mind all
                        the glorious pleasures of the senses. Whatever disinclination she had toward
                        him was altogether a prompting of class education; now that she had let down
                        the bars and released feeling she was in heart glad he was there with her,
                        glad he was "such a man
                    
                    The guides made a huge fire down by the shore, and left them alone. They sat
                        by it until nearly ten o'clock, he talking incessantly; her
                        overtures had roused in him the desire to please, and, instead of the usual
                        monologue of egotism and rant, he poured out poetry, eloquence, sense and
                        humorous shrewdness. Had he been far less the unusual, the great man, she
                        would still have listened with a sense of delight, for in her mood that
                        night his penetrating voice, which, in other moods, she found as
                        insupportable as a needle-pointed goad, harmonized with the great, starry
                        sky and the mysterious, eerie  shadows of
                        forest and mountain and lake close round their huge, bright fire. As they
                        rose to go in, up came the moon. A broad, benevolent, encouraging face, the
                        face of a matchmaker. Craig put his arm round Margaret. She trembled and
                        thrilled.
                    "Do you know what that moon's saying?" asked he.
                        In his voice was that exquisite tone that enabled him to make even
                        commonplaces lift great audiences to their feet to cheer him wildly.
                    She lifted soft, shining eyes to his. "What?" she inquired
                        under her breath. She had forgotten her schemes, her resentments, her
                        make-believe of every kind. "What — Joshua?" she
                        repeated.
                    "It's saying: `Hurry up, you silly children, down there!
                        Don't you know that life is a minute and youth a
                        second?'" And now both his arms were round her and one of
                        her hands lay upon his shoulder.
                    "Life a minute — youth a second," she
                        murmured.
                    "Do you think I'd scratch you horribly if I kissed you
                        — Rita?"
                    She lowered her eyes but not her face. "You might try —
                        Josh."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIV
                    "OUR HOUSE IS AFIRE"
                    Next morning she was up and in her dressing-room and had almost finished her
                        toilette before he awakened. For the first time in years — perhaps
                        the first time since the end of her happy girlhood and the beginning of her
                        first season in Washington society — she felt like singing. Was
                        there ever such a dawn? Did ever song of birds sound so like the voice of
                        eternal youth? Whence had come this air like the fumes from the wine-presses
                        of the gods? And the light! What colors, what tints, upon mountain and
                        valley and halcyon lake! And the man asleep in the next room — yes,
                        there was a Joshua Craig whom she found extremely trying
                        at times; but that Joshua Craig had somehow resigned the tenancy of the
                        strong, straight form there, had resigned it to a man who was the living
                        expression of all that bewitched her in the wilds.
                    She laughed softly at her own ecstasy of exaggeration. "The other
                        Josh will come back," she reminded herself, "and I must
                        not forget to be practical. This
                         is episodic." These happy,
                        superhuman episodes would come, would pass, would recur at intervals; but
                        the routine of her life must be lived. And if these episodes were to recur
                        the practical must not be neglected. "It's by neglecting
                        the practical that so many wives come to grief," reflected she. And
                        the first mandate of the practical was that he must be rescued from that
                        vulgar political game, which meant poverty and low associations and
                        tormenting uncertainties. He must be got where his talents would have their
                        due, their reward. But subtly guiding him into the way that would be best
                        for him was a far different matter from what she had been planning up to
                        last night's moonrise — was as abysmally separated from
                        its selfish hypocrisy as love from hate. She would persist in her purpose,
                        but how changed the motive!
                    She heard him stirring in her — no, their room.
                        Her face lighted up, her eyes sparkled. She ran to the mirror for a final
                        primp before he should see her. She was more than pleased with the image she
                        saw reflected there. "I never looked better in my life
                        —never so well. I'm glad I kept back this particular
                        dress. He's sure to like it, and it certainly is becoming to me
                        —the best-fitting skirt I ever had — what good lines it
                        has about the hips." She startled at a knock upon the door.  She rushed away from the mirror. He had small
                        physical vanity himself — she had never known any one with so
                        little. He had shown that he thought she had no vanity of that kind, either,
                        and he would doubtless misunderstand her solicitude about her personal
                        appearance. Anyhow, of all mornings this would be the worst for him to catch
                        her at the glass.
                    "Yes?" she called.
                    "Margaret," came in his voice. And, oh, the difference in
                        it!— the note of tenderness — no, it was not imagination,
                        it was really there! Her eyes filled and her bosom heaved.
                    "Are you joining me at breakfast?"
                    "Come in," cried she.
                    When the door did not open she went and opened it. There stood he! If he had greeted her with a triumphant, proprietorial
                        expression she would have been —well, it would have given her a
                        lowered opinion of his sensibility. But his look was just right
                        —dazzled, shy, happy. Nor did he make one of his impetuous rushes.
                        He almost timidly took her hand, kissed it; and it was she who sought his
                        shoulder— gladly, eagerly, with a sudden, real shyness.
                        "Margaret," he said.
                        "Mine—aren't you?"
                    Here was the Joshua she was to know thenceforth,  she felt. This Joshua would enable her to understand, or, rather, to
                        disregard, so far as she personally was concerned, the Josh, tempestuous,
                        abrupt, often absurd, whom the world knew. But — As soon as they
                        went where the guides were, the familiar Josh returned—boyish,
                        boisterous, rather foolish in trying to be frivolous and light. Still
                        —what did it matter? As soon as they should be alone again
                        —
                    When they set out after breakfast her Joshua still did not return, as she had
                        confidently expected. The obstreperous one remained, the one that was the
                        shrewdly-developed cover for his everlasting scheming mind. "What
                        an unending ass I've been making of myself," he burst out,
                        "with my silly notions." He drew a paper from his pocket
                        and handed it to her. "And this infernal thing of Grant's
                        has been encouraging me in idiocy."
                    She read the Arkwright gentleman's gazette and complete guide to
                        dress and conduct in the society of a refined gentlewoman. Her impulse was
                        to laugh, an impulse hard indeed to restrain when she came to the last line
                        of the document and read in Grant's neat, careful-man's
                        handwriting with heavy underscorings: "Above all, never forget that
                        you are a mighty stiff dose for anybody, and could easily become an overdose
                        for a  refined, sensitive lady." But
                        prudent foresight made her keep her countenance. "This is all very
                        sensible," said she.
                    "Sensible enough," assented he. "I've
                        learned a lot from it. . . . Did you read that last sentence?"
                    She turned her face away. "Yes," she said.
                    "That, taken with everything else, all but got me down,"
                        said he somberly. "God, what I've been through! It came
                        near preventing us from discovering that you're not a grand lady
                        but a human being." His mood veered, and it was he that was gay and
                        she glum; for he suddenly seized her and subjected her to one of those
                        tumultuous ordeals so disastrous to toilette and to dignity and to her sense
                        of personal rights. Not that she altogether disliked; she never had
                        altogether disliked, had found a certain thrill in his rude riotousness.
                        Still, she preferred the other Joshua Craig, her Joshua,
                        who wished to receive as well as to give. And she wished that Joshua, her
                        Joshua, would return. She herself had thought that, so far as she was
                        concerned, those periods of tender and gentle sentiment would be episodic;
                        but it was another thing for him to think so — and to show it
                        frankly. "I feel as if I'd had an adventure with a
                        bear," said she, half-laughing, half-resentful.
                    "So you did," declared he; "I'm a bear
                        — and every  other sort of animal
                        — except rabbit. There's no rabbit in me. Now, your men
                        — the Grant Arkwrights — are all rabbit."
                    "At least," said she, "do refrain from tearing my
                        hair down. A woman who does her hair well hates to have it
                        mussed."
                    "I'll try to remember," was his careless answer.
                        "As I was about to say, our discovery that you are not a lady out
                        of a story-book, but a human being and a very sweet one —it came
                        just in the nick of time. We're leaving here
                        to-night."
                    Now she saw the reason for the persistence of the Craig of noise and bluster
                        — and craft. "To-night?" she exclaimed.
                        "It's impossible."
                    "Yes — we go at five o'clock. Tickets are bought
                        —sleeper section engaged — everything
                        arranged."
                    "But Uncle Dan doesn't expect us for four days
                        yet."
                    "I've sent him a telegram."
                    "But I can't pack."
                    "Selina can."
                    "Impossible in such a little time."
                    "Then I'll do it," said Craig jovially.
                        "I can pack a trunk twice as quick as any man you ever saw. I pack
                        with my feet as well as with my hands."
                    
                    "It's impossible," repeated she angrily.
                        "I detest being hurried."
                    "Hurried? Why, you've got nine hours to get used to the
                        idea. Nine hours' warning for anything isn't
                        haste."
                    "Why didn't you tell me this yesterday?" demanded
                        she, coming to a full stop and expecting thus to compel him to face her. But
                        he marched on.
                    "It has been my lifelong habit," declared he over his
                        shoulder, "to arrange everything before disclosing my plans.
                        You'll find, as we get on, that it will save you a lot of fretting
                        and debating."
                    Reluctantly and with the humiliating sense of helpless second fiddle she
                        followed him along the rough path. "I loathe surprises,"
                        she said.
                    "Then adjust your mind to not being surprised at anything from
                        me."
                    He laughed noisily at his own humor. She was almost hating him again. He
                        seemed to have eyes in the back of his head; for as she shot a fiery glance
                        at him he whirled round, shook his forefinger maddeningly at her:
                        "Now listen to me, my dear," said he, in his very worst
                        manner, most aggressive, most dictatorial; "if you had wanted an
                        ordinary sort of man you should have married one and not me."
                    
                    "Don't you think common courtesy required you at least to
                        consult me about such a matter?"
                    "I do not. If I had I should have done so. I found it was necessary
                        that we go. I went ahead and arranged it. If you saw the house on fire would
                        you wait till you had consulted me before putting it out?"
                    "But this is entirely different."
                    "Not at all. Entirely the same, on the contrary. The talk we had day
                        before yesterday convinced me that our house is afire. I'm going to
                        put it out." He shut his teeth together with a snap, compressed his
                        lips, gave her one of those quick, positive nods of his Viking head. Then he
                        caught her by the arm. "Now," said he jocosely,
                        "let's go back to camp. You want to do your packing.
                        I've got to go over to the station and telegraph some
                        more."
                    She wrenched her arm away pettishly and, with sullen face, accompanied him to
                        the camp. It was all she could do to hide her anger when, in full sight of
                        the guides, he swept her up into his arms and kissed her several times.
                        Possibly she would have been really angered, deeply angered, had she
                        realized that these cyclones were due, as a rule, not so much to
                        appreciation of her as to the necessity of a strong counter-irritant to a
                        sudden attack of awe of her as a fine lady and doubt  of his own ability to cope with her. "Good-by,
                        Rita," cried he, releasing her as suddenly as he had seized her and
                        rushing toward the landing. "If I don't get back till the
                        last minute be sure you're ready. Anything that isn't
                        ready will be left behind—anything or anybody!"
                    The idea of revolt, of refusing to go, appealed to her first anger strongly.
                        But, on consideration, she saw that merely asserting her rights would not be
                        enough —that she must train him to respect them. If she refused to
                        go he would simply leave her; yes, he was just the man, the wild man, to do
                        precisely that disgraceful thing. And she would be horribly afraid to spend
                        the night alone in those woods with only the guides and Selina, not to speak
                        of facing the morrow —for he might refuse to take her back! Where
                        would she turn in that case? What would her grandmother say? Who would
                        support her in making such a scandal and giving up a husband for reasons
                        that could not be made impressive in words though they were the best of all
                        reasons in terms of feeling? No, if she gave him up she would be absolutely
                        alone, condemned on every hand, in the worst possible position. Then, too,
                        the break was unattractive for another reason. Though she despised herself
                        for her weakness, she did not wish  to give up
                        the man who had given her that brief glimpse of happiness she had dreamed as
                        one dreams an impossibility. Did not wish? Could not —would not
                        —give him up. "I belong to him!" she thought with
                        a thrill of ecstasy and of despair.
                    "But he'd better be careful!" she grumbled.
                        "If I should begin to dislike him there'd be no going
                        back." And then it recurred to her that this would be as great a
                        calamity of loss for her as for him — and she went at her packing
                        in a better humor. "I'll explain to him that I yield this
                        once, but —" There she stopped herself with a laugh. Of
                        what use to explain to him? —him who never listened to
                        explanations, who did not care a fig why people did as he wished, but was
                        content that they did. As for warning him about "next
                        time"—how ridiculous! She could hear his penetrating,
                        rousing voice saying: "We'll deal with `next
                        time' when it comes."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXV
                    MRS. JOSHUA CRAIG
                    "We change at Albany," said he when they were on the train,
                        after a last hour of mad scramble, due in part to her tardiness, in the main
                        to the atmosphere of hysteric hustle and bustle he created as a
                        precaution.
                    "At Albany!" she exclaimed. "Why, when do we get
                        there?"
                    "At midnight."
                    "At midnight!" It was the last drop in the cup of gall, she
                        thought. "Why, we'd get to Lenox, or to some place where
                        we'd have to change again, long before morning! Josh, you must be
                        out of your senses. It's a perfect outrage!"
                    "Best I could do," said he, laughing uproariously and
                        patting her on the back. "Cheer up. You can sleep on my shoulder
                        until we get to Albany."
                    "We will go on to New York," said she stiffly,
                        "and leave from there in the morning."
                    "Can't do it," said he. "Must change at
                        Albany. You ought to learn to control your temper over these  little inconveniences of life. I've
                        brought a volume of Emerson's essays along and I'll read
                        to you if you don't want to sleep."
                    "I hate to be read aloud to. Joshua, let's go on to New
                        York. Such a night of horror as you've planned will wear me
                        out."
                    "I tell you it's impossible. I've done the best
                        thing in the circumstances. You'll see."
                    Suddenly she sprang up, looked wildly round. "Where's
                        Selina?" she gasped.
                    "Coming to-morrow or next day," replied he. "I
                        sent her to the camp for some things I forgot."
                    She sank back and said no more. Again she was tempted to revolt against such
                        imbecile tyranny; and again, as she debated the situation, the wisdom, the
                        necessity of submitting became apparent. How would it sound to have to
                        explain to her grandmother that she had left him because he took an
                        inconvenient train? "I'd like to see him try this sort of
                        thing if we'd been married six months instead of six
                        weeks," she muttered.
                    She refused to talk with him, answered him in cold monosyllables. And after
                        dinner, when he produced the volume of Emerson and began to read aloud, she
                        curtly asked him to be quiet. "I wish to sleep!" snapped
                        she.
                    
                    "Do, dear," urged he. And he put his arm around her.
                    "That's very uncomfortable," said she, trying to
                        draw away.
                    He drew her back, held her — and she knew she must either submit or
                        make a scene. There was small attraction to scene-making with such a master
                        of disgraceful and humiliating scenes as he. "He wouldn't
                        care a rap," she muttered. "He simply revels in scenes,
                        knowing he's sure to win out at them as a mongrel in a fight with
                        a"—even in that trying moment her sense of humor did not
                        leave her—"with a lapdog."
                    She found herself comfortable and amazingly content, leaning against his
                        shoulder; and presently she went to sleep, he holding the book in his free
                        hand and reading calmly. The next thing she knew he was shaking her gently.
                        "Albany," he said. "We've got to change
                        here."
                    She rose sleepily and followed him from the car, adjusting her hat as she
                        went. She had thought she would be wretched; instead, she felt fine as the
                        sharp, night air roused her nerves and freshened her skin. He led the way
                        into the empty waiting-room; the porter piled the bags on the bench; she
                        seated herself. "I must send a 
                        telegram," said he, and he went over to the window marked
                        "Telegraph Office." It was closed. He knocked and rattled,
                        and finally pounded on the glass with his umbrella handle.
                    Her nerves went all to pieces. "Can't you see,"
                        she called impatiently, "that there's no one
                        there?"
                    "There will be some one!" he shouted in reply, and fell to
                        pounding so vigorously that she thought the glass would surely break. But it
                        did not; after a while the window flew up and an angry face just escaped a
                        blow from the vibrating umbrella handle. A violent altercation followed, the
                        operator raging, but Craig more uproarious than he and having the further
                        advantage of a more extensive and more picturesque vocabulary. Finally the
                        operator said: "I should think you'd be ashamed of
                        yourself. Don't you see there's a lady
                        present?"
                    "It's my wife," said Craig. "Now take
                        this message and get it off at once. You should thank me for not having you
                        dismissed."
                    The operator read the message. His face changed and he said in a surlily
                        apologetic manner: "I'll send it off right away, Mr.
                        Craig. Anything else?"
                    "That's all, my friend," said Josh. He returned to
                        his wife's side. She was all confusion and doubt again.  Here they were back in civilization, and her
                        man of the woods was straightway running amuck. What should she do? What could she do? What had she got herself
                        into by marrying?
                    But he was speaking. "My dear," he was saying in his sharp,
                        insistent voice, that at once aroused and enfeebled the nerves, "I
                        must talk fast, as the train comes in fifteen or twenty minutes—the
                        train for Chicago —for Minneapolis — for Wayne —
                        for home — our home."
                    She started up from the seat, pale, quivering, her hands clinched against her
                        bosom.
                    "For home," he repeated, fixing her with his resolute,
                        green-blue eyes. "Please, sit down."
                    She sank to the seat. "Do you mean —" she began,
                        but her faltering voice could not go on.
                    "I've resigned from office," said he, swift and
                        calm. "I've told the President I'll not take the
                        Attorney-Generalship. I've telegraphed your people at Lenox that
                        we're not coming. And I'm going home to run for Governor.
                        My telegrams assure me the nomination, and, with the hold I've got
                        on the people, that means election, sure pop. I make my first speech day
                        after to-morrow afternoon—with you on the platform beside
                        me."
                    
                    "You are mistaken," she said in a cold, hard voice.
                        "You —"
                    "Now don't speak till you've thought, and
                        don't think till I finish. As you yourself said,
                        Washington's no place for us — at present. Anyhow, the way
                        to get there right is to be sent there from the people —by the
                        people. You are the wife of a public man, but you've had no
                        training."
                    "I—" she began.
                    "Hear me first," he said, between entreaty and command.
                        "You think I'm the one that's got it all to
                        learn. Think again. The little tiddledywinks business that I've got
                        to learn — all the value there is in the mass of balderdash about
                        manners and dress — I can learn it in a few lessons. You can teach
                        it to me in no time. But what you've got to learn — how to
                        be a wife, how to live on a modest income, how to take care of me, and help
                        me in my career, how to be a woman instead of, largely, a
                        dressmaker's or a dancing-master's expression for
                        lady-likeness —to learn all that is going to take time. And we must
                        begin at once; for, as I told you, the house is afire."
                    She opened her lips to speak.
                    "No — not yet," said he. "One thing more.
                        You've been thinking things about me. Well, do you imagine  this busy brain of mine hasn't been
                        thinking a few things about you? Why, Margaret, you need me even more than I
                        need you, though I need you more than I'd dare try to tell you. You
                        need just such a man as me to give you direction and purpose — real backbone. Primping and preening in carriages and
                        parlors — that isn't life. It's
                        the frosting on the cake. Now, you and I, we're going to have the
                        cake itself. Maybe with, maybe without the frosting. But not
                            the frosting without the cake, Margaret!"
                    
                    "So!" she exclaimed, drawing a long breath when he had
                        ended. "So! This is why you chose that five
                        o'clock train and sent Selina back. You thought
                        to—"
                    He laughed as if echoing delight from her; he patted her enthusiastically on
                        the knee. "You've guessed it! Go up head! I
                        didn't want you to have time to say and do foolish
                        things."
                    She bit her lip till the blood came. Ringing in her ears and defying her
                        efforts to silence them were those words of his about the cake and the
                        frosting —"the cake, maybe with, maybe without frosting;
                            but not the frosting without the cake!" She
                        started to speak; but it was no interruption from him that checked her, for
                        he sat silent, looking at her with all his fiery strength of soul in his
                        magnetic eyes. Again she started to  speak;
                        and a third time; and each time checked herself. This impossible man, this
                        creator of impossible situations! She did not know how to begin, or how to
                        go on after she should have begun. She felt that even if she had known what
                        to say she would probably lack the courage to say it—that
                        final-test courage which only the trained in self-reliance have. The door
                        opened. A station attendant came in out of the frosty night and shouted:
                    "Chicago Express! Express for—Buffalo! Chicago!
                        Minneapolis! St. Paul!—the Northwest!—the Far West! All — a — board!"
                    Craig seized the handbags. "Come on, my dear!" he cried,
                        getting into rapid motion.
                    She sat still.
                    He was at the door. "Come on," he said.
                    She looked appealingly, helplessly round that empty, lonely, strange station,
                        its lights dim, its suggestions all inhospitable. "He has me at his
                        mercy," she said to herself, between anger and despair.
                        "How can I refuse to go without becoming the laughing-stock of the
                        whole world?"
                    "Come on — Rita!" he cried. The voice was
                        aggressive, but his face was deathly pale and the look out of his eyes was
                        the call of a great loneliness. And she 
                        
                            "'Come on,' he
                                said."
                        
                         saw it and felt it. She braced herself
                        against it; but a sob surged up in her throat — the answer of her
                        heart to his heart's cry of loneliness and love.
                    "Chicago Express!" came in the train-caller's
                        warning roar from behind her, as if the room were crowded instead of
                        tenanted by those two only. "All aboard! . . . Hurry up, lady, or
                        you'll get left!"
                    Get left! . . . Left!—the explosion of that hoarse, ominous voice
                        seemed to blow Mrs. Joshua Craig from the seat, to sweep her out through the
                        door her husband was holding open, and into the train for their home.
                    THE END
                
            
        
        
            
            
                OTHER BOOKS BY
                     DAVID GRAHAM PHILLIPS
                THE extraordinary position which David Graham
                    Phillips' novels have taken in the community has its cause and
                    reason.
                Mr. Phillips is an Indiana man in the early forties. He graduated from De Pauw
                    University and then from Princeton. He has had a career giving him unusual
                    opportunities to observe the life of all kinds of people, high and low, rich and
                    poor, town and country, here and abroad. As he watched the struggle of humanity
                    to live—the concealment and subterfuge, the extraordinary mixture of
                    good and bad in everyone—all the conflict in the jungle which we call
                    life impressed itself  on him, and he gradually
                    found that fiction—the novel—was presenting to him the best
                    medium for him to express to everyone what he had found in his work so far. The
                    result has been that in the last few years Mr. Phillips has gathered together an
                    audience of thousands, who watch each book as it appears. It is interesting to
                    see what he has produced.
                Mr. Phillips' novel just preceding the present work is
                
                    OLD WIVES FOR NEW
                    Many, many critics have called this novel immoral and gross. It is not so. It
                        tells the naked truth—not brutally, but frankly. It is not romance.
                        It is real life. It deals with a wife who cannot keep pace with her husband,
                        and who becomes slothful and unclean and lowminded because she does not
                        realize that to live and move forward she must keep herself physically and
                        mentally clean and fresh. It is the truth. It hits many a woman to-day hard.
                        Women do not like this truth. It bites too deep—and so they called
                        it disgusting and immoral. And yet more than 200,000 people have read it. Of
                        this novel it is said: "If the husband reads it he gives it to his
                        wife. If the wife reads it first, she is very likely to hide it from her
                        husband." A woman said of it: "While I was reading it, I
                        stopped one night just after the train wreck. It was so vivid that as I took
                        up my morning paper, the next day, I glanced at the head-lines for news of
                        Murdock's condition, and to find whether the scandal had come
                        out." "Old Wives for New" is a picture of  married life—when the blinds are
                        drawn and the servants out of the way, and the husband and wife become their
                        real selves. The St. Paul Pioneer Press says: "It
                        contains things about women that have never seen the light of day
                        before." It might have added: and things about men also. The book
                        teems with good characters, each with a haunting resemblance to ourselves.
                        There are women of respectability and women of the other world, wise men and
                        fools, people that are more good than bad, people that are more bad than
                        good, but nobody that is unhuman enough to be either all good or all bad.
                        The keynote is that of a good story which searches for the truth.
                    Another of the remarkable novels is
                
                
                    THE SECOND GENERATION
                    It has been called a problem novel. But it is so only in the sense that every
                        story that lives and breathes and is clothed in flesh and blood presents a
                        problem. You will read this book without laying it down, if you can. And
                        afterward you will think about it for many a day. You will laugh; you will
                        come very near to crying, if you don't quite cry. You will love old
                        Hiram Ranger and Ellen, his wife. You will envy Dory Hargrave, his
                        fascinating Adelaide. You will laugh over the soulful Janet, and will
                        sympathize with Arthur Ranger. And as for Madelene —well, you will
                        certainly find her thrilling! And the adventures of all these people will
                        keep you intensely interested. Doctor Schulze must not go without a  mention. He is as amusing here as when he
                        appears again in "Old Wives for New," and his advice on
                        medicine and other things may save you some had health and a deal of money.
                        As its title suggests, the story is a picture of our American life that may
                        be found in any city or any town the country over—the story of the
                        strong, hard-working father, who carved his way through life; and then the
                        story of the next generation—the son and daughter who had
                        apparently no fight to make. You will say this has been done. It has, but
                        never in the Balzacian way that David Phillips has done it here.
                    The third novel is
                
                
                    LIGHT-FINGERED GENTRY
                    Here is another novel of present-day life, and at present as true, as
                        interesting, from the romantic point of view, as either of the other two.
                        When it was appearing serially, one of the foremost men in America became so
                        excitedly interested that he asked, and as a special favor got, an advance
                        set of the proofs of the whole story. He couldn't wait to find out
                        what was going to happen about Neva Carlin and her divorced husband, Horace
                        Armstrong; about the handsome, rakish great artist, Boris; about sensible
                        Narcisse, the architect, and her nice weak brother; and the pert, pretty
                        heiress, Amy Fosdick. As in Mr. Phillips' other novels, here we
                        have again those startling, intimate views of men and women. Much more
                        interesting, much more amusing is this sort of thing than the slush you so
                        often take into your system with a  box of
                        chocolates, to the detriment of your brain as well as of your stomach. It
                        may be said right here that if you are weak or without ambition, or if you
                        have no desire to be a clean, clean-cut, up-to-date, attractive human being,
                        "in the know," you had better not read Mr.
                        Phillips' novels. His pictures of people are too true to make
                        people of the running-to-seed sort comfortable. The story gives again a
                        true, unvarnished picture of the situation as it has and does exist among
                        the great and unprincipled financiers of this country. It tells in
                        straightforward, direct language of the sacrifice of friendships and family
                        ties for the advancement of moneyed interest and the pursuit of power, while
                        all through the story runs the influence of a woman towards human and sane
                        living and thinking. It is worth emphasizing again that all this is told as
                        the realities are—not as they might be seen through romantic
                        eyes—not as they should be from the point of view of the old-style
                        novels—not in any of a thousand ways: but as they are now, to-day,
                        here in this country.
                    A few weeks ago Mr. Phillips published a play called
                
                
                    THE WORTH OF A WOMAN
                    This little volume illustrates the possibility of making an actual acting
                        play that is also interesting to read. It is a remarkable love
                        story—very "daring," as the critics say when they
                        are afraid to say "literally true." If you read this play,
                        you will go about posing its central idea—the dilemma of Diana and
                        her lover—to all your  friends, and
                        arguing over whether Diana or Julian was right, or both, or neither.
                    Mr. Phillips does not follow the usual fashion in writing novels. He has a
                        fashion of his own. His readers are now numbered by the scores of thousands.
                        In at least one of our cities, at the public library where they take ten
                        copies of each of Mr. Phillips' new books, there is usually a
                        waiting-list five to seven months long for a chance at it,
                        which shows one of two things, or perhaps both: to how much trouble some
                        people will go to save the trifling expenditure of the price of a book, or
                        how extremely popular Mr. Phillips is—so popular that he has a
                        multitude of eager readers among those who cannot afford to buy books.
                    It is no small triumph to win all kinds of readers, as Mr. Phillips has. The
                        reason he has achieved it is because he writes about life as we live it
                        ourselves, in our hearts and in our homes and in our dealings with each
                        other—the familiar yet startling and always fascinating truth about
                        life.
                    It has passed into a proverb that he who induces you to read a book worth
                        while does you a great favor. We venture to think we are doing even more: we
                        are trying to induce you to read an author worth while.
                
            
        
    
