
     ----CITATION---- 
        McCutcheon, George Barr, 1866-1928. The Daughter of Anderson Crow: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2456
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                
                
            
            
            
                
                    THE DAUGHTER OF ANDERSON CROW
                
                BY
                    GEORGE BARR McCUTCHEON Author of "Beverly of
                    Graustrak," "Jane Cable," etc.
                WITH ILLUSTRATION BY B. MARTIN JUSTICE
                
                    DODD, MEAD AND COMPANY
                    NEW YORK
                    1907
                
            
            
            
                COPYRIGHT, 1907 BY DODD, MEAD AND COMPANY
                     Published September, 1907 All Rights Reserved
            
            
            
                CONTENTS
                
                    I ANDERSON CROW, DETECTIVE
                        1
                    II THE PURSUIT BEGINS
                        14
                    III THE CULPRITS
                        25
                    IV ANDERSON RECTIFIES AN ERROR
                        36
                    V THE BABE ON THE DOORSTEP
                        49
                    VI REFLECTION AND DEDUCTION
                        61
                    VIII THE MYSTERIOUS VISITOR
                        68
                    VIII SOME YEARS GO
                            BY
                        75
                    IX THE VILLAGE QUEEN
                        84
                    X ROSALIE HAS PLANS
                            OF HER OWN
                        91
                    XI ELSIE BANKS
                        98
                    XII THE SPELLING-BEE
                        107
                    XIII A TINKLETOWN SENSATION
                        115
                    XIV A CASE OF MISTAKEN IDENTITY
                        124
                    XV ROSALIE DISAPPEARS
                        131
                    XVI THE HAUNTED HOUSE
                        143
                    XVII WICKER BONNER, HARVARD
                        154
                    XVIII THE MEN IN THE SLEIGH
                        165
                    XIX WITH THE KIDNAPERS
                        173
                    XX IN THE CAVE
                        183
                    XXI THE TRAP-DOOR
                        192
                    XXII JACK, THE GIANT KILLER
                        199
                    XXIII TINKLETOWN'S CONVULSION
                        208
                    XXIV THE FLIGHT OF THE KIDNAPERS
                        217
                    
                    XXV AS THE HEART
                            GROWS OLDER
                        227
                    XXVI THE LEFT VENTRICLE
                        236
                    XXVII THE GRIN DERISIVE
                        245
                    XXVIII THE BLIND MAN'S EYES
                        255
                    XXIX THE MYSTERIOUS QUESTIONER
                        263
                    XXX THE HEMISPHERE TRAIN ROBBERY
                        273
                    XXXI "AS YOU LIKE
                            IT" 285
                    XXXII THE LUCK OF ANDERSON CROW
                        297
                    XXXIII BILL BRIGGS TELLS A TALE
                        309
                    XXXIV ELSIE BANKS RETURNS
                        319
                    XXXV THE STORY IS
                            TOLD
                        330
                    XXXVI ANDERSON CROW'S RESIGNATION
                        341
                
            
            
            
                ILLUSTRATIONS
                
                    Anderson Crow Frontispiece
                    " 'Safe for a minute or two at least,' he whispered" 28
                    "A baby, alive and warm, lay packed in the blankets" 54
                    "September brought Elsie Banks" 96
                    "The teacher was amazingly pretty on this eventful night" 110
                    " 'What is the meaning of all this?' " 126
                    The haunted house 146
                    Wicker Bonner 156
                    "Rosalie was no match for the huge woman" 174
                    "She shrank back from another blow which seemed impending" 184
                    "Left the young man to the care of an excellent nurse" 222
                    " 'I think I understand, Rosalie' " 252
                    " 'I beg your pardon,' he said humbly" 260
                    "It was a wise, discreet old oak" 270
                    "The huge automobile had struck the washout" " " 304
                
            
        
        
            
            
                THE DAUGHTER OF ANDERSON CROW
                
                    CHAPTER I
                    Anderson Crow, Detective
                    HE was imposing, even in his pensiveness. There was no
                        denying the fact that he was an important personage in Tinkletown, and to
                        the residents of Tinkletown that meant a great deal, for was not their
                        village a perpetual monument to the American Revolution? Even the most
                        generalising of historians were compelled to devote at least a paragraph to
                        the battle of Tinkletown, while some of the more enlightened gave a whole
                        page and a picture of the conflict that brought glory to the sleepy
                        inhabitants whose ancestors were enterprising enough to annihilate a whole
                        company of British redcoats, once on a time.
                    Notwithstanding all this, a particularly disagreeable visitor from the city
                        once remarked, in the presence of half a dozen descendants (after waiting
                        twenty minutes at the post-office for a dime's worth of stamps), that
                        Tinkletown was indeed a monument, but he could not understand why the dead
                        had been left unburied. There was excellent cause for resentment, but the
                        young man and his stamps were far away before the full force of the slander
                        penetrated the brains of the listeners.
                    
                    Anderson Crow was as imposing and as rugged as the tallest shaft of marble in
                        the little cemetery on the edge of the town. No one questioned his power and
                        authority, no one misjudged his altitude, and no one overlooked his dignity.
                        For twenty-eight years he had served Tinkletown and himself in the triple
                        capacity of town marshal, fire chief and street commissioner. He had a
                        system of government peculiarly his own; and no one possessed the heart or
                        temerity to upset it, no matter what may have been the political
                        inducements. It would have been like trying to improve the laws of nature to
                        put a new man in his place. He had become a fixture that only dissolution
                        could remove. Be it said, however, that dissolution did not have its common
                        and accepted meaning when applied to Anderson Crow. For instance, in
                        discoursing upon the obnoxious habits of the town's most dissolute rakeAlf
                        ReeslingAnderson had more than once ventured the opinion that "he was
                        carrying his dissolution entirely too far."
                    And had not Anderson Crow risen to more than local distinction? Had not his
                        fame gone abroad throughout the land? Not only was he the Marshal of
                        Tinkletown at a salary of $200 a year, but he was president of the County
                        Horse-thief Detectives' Association and also a life-long delegate to the
                        State Convention of the Sons of the Revolution. Along that line, let it be
                        added, every parent in Tinkletown bemoaned the birth of a daughter, because
                        that simple circumstance of origin robbed the society's roster of a new
                        name.
                    
                    Anderson Crow, at the age of forty-nine, had a proud official record behind
                        him and a guaranteed future ahead. Doubtless it
                        was of this that he was thinking, as he leaned pensively against the town
                        hitching-rack and gingerly chewed the blade of wire-grass which dangled even
                        below the chin whiskers that had been with him for twenty years. The faraway
                        expression in his watery-blue eyes gave evidence that he was as great
                        reminiscently as he was personally. So successful had been his career as a
                        law preserver, that of late years no evil-doer had had the courage to ply
                        his nefarious games in the community. The town drunkard, Alf  Reesling, seldom appeared on the streets in his
                        habitual condition, because, as he dolefully remarked, he would deserve
                        arrest and confinement for "criminal negligence," if for nothing else. The
                        marshal's fame as a detective had long since escaped from the narrow
                        confines of Tinkletown. He was well known at the county seat, and on no less
                        than three occasions had his name mentioned in the "big city" papers in
                        connection with the arrest of notorious horse-thieves.
                    And now the whole town was trembling with a new excitement, due to the
                        recognition accorded her triple official. On Monday morning he had ventured
                        forth from his office in the long-deserted "calaboose," resplendent in a
                        brand-new nickel-plated star. By noon everybody in town knew that he was a
                        genuine "detective," a member of the great organisation known as the New
                        York Imperial Detective Association; and that fresh honour had come to
                        Tinkletown through the agency of a post-revolution generation. The beauty of
                        it all was that Anderson never lost a shred of his serenity in explaining
                        how the association had implored him to join its forces, even going so far
                        as to urge him to come to New York City, where he could assist and advise in
                        all of its large operations. And, moreover, he had been obliged to pay but
                        ten dollars membership fee, besides buying the blazing star for the paltry
                        sum of three dollars and a quarter.
                    Every passer-by on this bright spring morning offered a respectful "Howdy" to
                        Anderson Crow,  whose only recognition was a
                        slow and imposing nod of the head. Once only was he driven to relinquish his
                        pensive attitude, and that was when an impertinent blue-bottle fly undertook
                        to rest for a brief spell upon the nickel-plated star. Never was blue-bottle
                        more energetically put to flight.
                    But even as the Tinkletown Pooh-Bah posed in restful supremacy there were
                        rushing down upon him affairs of the epoch-making kind. Up in the clear,
                        lazy sky a thunderbolt was preparing to hurl itself into the very heart of
                        Tinkletown, and at the very head of Anderson Crow.
                    Afterward it was recalled by observing citizens that just before noonseven
                        minutes to twelve, in facta small cloud no bigger than the proverbial hand
                        crossed the sun hurriedly as if afraid to tarry. At that very instant a
                        stranger drove up to the hitching-rack, bringing his sweat-covered horse to
                        a standstill so abruptly in front of the marshal's nose that that
                        dignitary's hat fell off backward.
                    "Whoa!" came clearly and unmistakably from the lips of the stranger who held
                        the reins. Half a dozen loafers on the post-office steps were positive that
                        he said nothing more, a fact that was afterward worth remembering.
                    "Here!" exclaimed Anderson Crow wrathfully. "Do you know what you're doin',
                        consarn you?"
                    "I beg pardon," everybody within hearing heard the young man say. "Is this
                        the city of Tinkletown?" He said "city," they could swear, every man's son
                        of them.
                    
                    "Yes, it is," answered the marshal severely. "What of it?"
                    "That's all. I just wanted to know. Where's the store?"
                    "Which store?" quite crossly. The stranger seemed nonplussed at this.
                    "Have you more thanoh, to be sure. I should say, where is the nearest store?" apologised the stranger.
                    "Well, this is a good one, I reckon," said Mr. Crow laconically, indicating
                        the post-office and general store.
                    "Will you be good enough to hold my horse while I run in there for a minute?"
                        calmly asked the new arrival in town, springing lightly from the
                        mud-spattered buggy. Anderson Crow almost staggered beneath this indignity.
                        The crowd gasped, and then waited breathlessly for the withering
                        process.
                    "Whywhy, dod-gast you, sir, what do you think I ama hitchin'-post?" exploded
                        on the lips of the new detective. His face was flaming red.
                    "You'll have to excuse me, my good man, but I thought I saw a hitching-rack
                        as I drove up. Ah, here it is. How careless of me. But say, I won't be in
                        the store more than a second, and it doesn't seem worth while to tie the old
                        crow-bait. If you'll just watch himor herfor a minute I'll be greatly
                        obliged, and"
                    "Watch your own horse," roared the marshal thunderously.
                    
                    "Don't get huffy," cried the young man cheerily. "It will be worth a quarter
                        to you."
                    "Do you know who I am?" demanded Anderson Crow, purple to the roots of his
                        goatee.
                    
                    "Yes, sir; I know perfectly well, but I refuse to give it away. Here, take
                        the bit, old chap, and hold Dobbin for about a minute and half," went on the
                        stranger ruthlessly; and before Anderson Crow knew what had happened he was
                        actually holding the panting nag by the bit. The young man went up the steps
                        three at a time, almost upsetting Uncle Gideon Luce, who had not been so
                        spry as the others in clearing the way for him. The crowd had ample time in
                        which to study the face, apparel and manner of this energetic young man.
                    
                    That he was from the city, good-looking and well dressed, there was no doubt.
                        He was tall and his face was beardless; that much could be seen at a glance.
                        Somehow, he seemed to be laughing all the timea fact that was afterward
                        recalled with some surprise and no little horror. At the time, the loungers
                        thought his smile was a merry one, but afterward they stoutly maintained
                        there was downright villainy in the leer. His coat was very dusty, proving
                        that he had driven far and swiftly. Three or four of the loungers followed
                        him into the store. He was standing before the counter over which Mr. Lamson
                        served his soda-water. In one hand he held an
                        envelope and in the other his straw hat. George Ray, more observant than the
                        rest, took note of the fact that it was with the hat that he was fanning
                        himself vigorously.
                    "A plain vanillaplease rush it along," commanded the stranger. Mr. Lamson, if
                        possible slower than the town itself, actually 
                        showed unmistakable signs of acceleration. Tossing off the soda, the
                        stranger dried his lips with a blue-hemmed white handkerchief. "Is this the
                        post-office?" he asked.
                    "Yep," said Mr. Lamson, who was too penurious to waste words.
                    "Anything here for me?". demanded the newcomer.
                    "I'll see," said the postmaster, and from force of habit began looking
                        through the pile of letters without asking the man's name. Mr. Lamson knew
                        everybody in the county.
                    "Nothing here," taking off his spectacles conclusively.
                    "I didn't think there was," said the other complacently. "Give me a bottle of
                        witch hazel, a package of invisible hair-pins and a box of parlor matches.
                        Quick; I'm in a hurry!"
                    "Did you say hat-pins?"
                    "No, sir; I said hair-pins."
                    "We haven't any that ain't visible. How would safety-pins do?"
                    "Never mind; give me the bottle and the matches," said the other, glancing at
                        a very handsome gold watch. "Is the old man still holding my horse?" he
                        called to a citizen near the door. Seven necks stretched simultaneously to
                        accommodate him, and seven voices answered in the affirmative. The stranger
                        calmly opened the box of matches, filled his silver match-safe, and then
                        threw the box back on the counter, an unheard-of piece of profligacy in
                        those  parts. "Needn't mind wrapping up the
                        bottle," he said.
                    "Don't you care for these matches?" asked Mr. Lamson in mild surprise.
                    "I'll donate them to the church," said the other, tossing a coin upon the
                        counter and dashing from the store. The crowd ebbed along behind him.
                        "Gentle as a lamb, isn't he?" he called to Anderson Crow, who still clutched
                        the bit. "Much obliged, sir; I'll do as much for you some day. If you're
                        ever in New York, hunt me up and I'll see that you have a good time. What
                        road do I take to Crow's Cliff?"
                    "Turn to your left here," said Anderson Crow before he thought. Then he
                        called himself a fool for being so obliging to the fellow.
                    "How far is it from here?"
                    "Mile and a half," again answered Mr. Crow helplessly. This time he almost
                        swore under his breath.
                    "But he can't get there," volunteered one of the bystanders.
                    "Why can't he?" demanded the marshal.
                    "Bridge over Turnip Creek is washed out. Did you forget that?"
                    "Of course not," promptly replied Mr. Crow, who had
                        forgotten it. "But, dang it, he c'n swim, can't he?"
                    "You say the bridge is gone?" asked the stranger, visibly excited.
                    "Yes, and the crick's too high to ford, too."
                    "Well, how in thunder am I to get to Crow's Cliff?"
                    "There's another bridge four miles upstream. It's  still there," said George Ray. Anderson Crow had scornfully washed his
                        hands of the affair.
                    "Confound the luck! I haven't time to drive that far. I have to be there at
                        half-past twelve. I'm late now! Is there no way to get across this miserable
                        creek?" He was in the buggy now, whip in hand, and his eyes wore an anxious
                        expression. Some of the men vowed later that he positively looked
                        frightened.
                    "There's a foot-log high and dry, and you can walk across, but you can't get
                        the horse and buggy over," said one of the men.
                    "Well, that's just what I'll have to do. Say, Mr. Officer, suppose you drive
                        me down to the creek and then bring the horse back here to a livery stable.
                        I'll pay you well for it. I must get to Crow's Cliff in fifteen
                        minutes."
                    "I'm no errant-boy!" cried Anderson Crow so wrathfully that two or three boys
                        snickered.
                    "You're a darned old crank, that's what you are!" exclaimed the stranger
                        angrily. Everybody gasped, and Mr. Crow staggered back against the
                        hitching-rail.
                    "See here, young man, none o' that!" he sputtered.
                    "You can't talk that way to an officer of the law. I'll"
                    "You won't do anything, do you hear that? But if you knew who I am you'd be
                        doing something blamed quick." A dozen men heard him say it, and they
                        remembered it word for word.
                    "You go scratch yourself!" retorted Anderson Crow  scornfully. That was supposed to be a terrible challenge, but the
                        stranger took no notice of it.
                    "What am I to do with this horse and buggy?" he growled, half to himself. "I
                        bought the darned thing outright up in Boggs City, just because the
                        liveryman didn't know me and wouldn't let me a rig. Now I suppose I'll have
                        to take the old plug down to the creek and drown him in order to get rid of
                        him."
                    Nobody remonstrated. He looked a bit dangerous with his broad shoulders and
                        square jaw.
                    "What will you give me for the outfit, horse, buggy, harness and all? I'll
                        sell cheap if some one makes a quick offer." The bystanders looked at one
                        another blankly, and at last the concentrated gaze fell upon the Pooh-Bah of
                        the town. The case seemed to be one that called for his attention; truly, it
                        did not look like public property, this astounding proposition.
                    "What you so derned anxious to sell for?" demanded Anderson Crow, listening
                        from a distance to see if he could detect a blemish in the horse's breathing
                        gear. At a glance, the buggy looked safe enough.
                    "I'm anxious to sell for cash," replied the stranger; and Anderson was
                        floored. The boy who snickered this time had cause to regret it, for Mr.
                        Crow arrested him half an hour later for carrying a bean-shooter. "I paid a
                        hundred dollars for the outfit in Boggs City," went on the stranger
                        nervously. "Some one make an offerand quick! I'm in a rush!"
                    "I'll give five dollars!" said one of the onlookers with an apologetic laugh.
                        This was the match that  started fire in the
                        thrifty noddles of Tinkletown's best citizens. Before they knew it they were
                        bidding against each other with the true "horse-swapping" instinct, and the
                        offers had reached $21.25 when the stranger unceremoniously closed the sale
                        by crying out, "Sold!" There is no telling how high the bids might have gone
                        if he could have waited half an hour or so. Uncle Gideon Luce afterward said
                        that he could have had twenty-four dollars "just as well as not." They were
                        bidding up a quarter at a time, and no one seemed willing to drop out. The
                        successful bidder was Anderson Crow.
                    "You can pay me as we drive along. Jump in!" cried the stranger, looking at
                        his watch with considerable agitation. "All I ask is that you drive me to
                        the foot-log that crosses the creek."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER II
                    The Pursuit Begins
                    FIFTEEN minutes later Anderson Crow was parading proudly
                        about the town. He had taken the stranger to the creek and had seen him
                        scurry across the log to the opposite side, supplied with directions that
                        would lead him to the nearest route through the swamps and timberland to
                        Crow's Cliff. The stranger had Anderson's money in his pocket; but Anderson
                        had a very respectable sort of driving outfit to show for it. His wife kept
                        dinner for him until two o'clock, and then sent the youngest Crow out to
                        tell her father that he'd have to go hungry until supper-time.
                    It is no wonder that Anderson failed to reach home in time for the midday
                        meal. He started home properly enough, but what progress could he make when
                        everybody in town stopped him to inquire about the remarkable deal and to
                        have a look at the purchase. Without a single dissenting voice, Tinkletown
                        said Anderson had very much the "best of the bargain." George Ray meant all
                        right when he said, "A fool for luck," but he was obliged to explain
                        thoroughly the witticism before the proud Mr. Crow could consider himself
                        appeased.
                    It was not until he pulled up in front of the Weekly Banner
                        establishment to tell the reporter "the news" 
                        that his equanimity received its first jar. He was quite proud of the deal,
                        and, moreover, he enjoyed seeing his name in the paper. In the meantime
                        almost everybody in Tinkletown was discussing the awful profligacy of the
                        stranger. It had not occurred to anybody to wonder why he had been in such a
                        hurry to reach Crow's Cliff, a wild, desolate spot down the river.
                    "The hoss alone is worth fifty dollars easy," volunteered Mr. Crow
                        triumphantly. The detective's badge on his inflated chest seemed to sparkle
                        with glee.
                    "Say, Anderson, isn't it a little queer that he should sell out so cheap?"
                        asked Harry Squires, the local reporter and pressfeeder.
                    "What's that?" demanded Anderson Crow sharply.
                    "Do you think it's really true that he bought the nag up at Boggs City?"
                        asked the sceptic. Mr. Crow wallowed his quid of tobacco helplessly for a
                        minute or two. He could feel himself turning pale.
                    "He said so; ain't that enough?" he managed to bluster.
                    "It seems to have been," replied Harry, who had gone to night school in
                        Albany for two years.
                    "Well, what in thunder are you talking about then?" exclaimed Anderson Crow,
                        whipping up.
                    "I'll bet three dollars it's a stolen outfit!"
                    "You go to Halifax!" shouted Anderson, but his heart was cold. Something told
                        him that Harry Squires was right. He drove home in a state of dire
                        uncertainty and distress. Somehow, his enthusiasm was gone.
                    
                    "Dang it!" he said, without reason, as he was unhitching the horse in the
                        barn lot.
                    "Hey, Mr. Crow!" cried a shrill voice from the street. He looked up and saw a
                        small boy coming on the run.
                    "What's up, Toby?" asked Mr. Crow, all a-tremble. He knew!
                    "They just got a telephone from Boggs City," panted the boy, "down to the Banner office. Harry Squires says for you to hurry
                        downbuggy and all. It's been stole."
                    "Good Lord!" gasped Anderson. His badge danced before his eyes and then
                        seemed to shrivel.
                    Quite a crowd had collected at the Banner office. There was
                        a sudden hush when the marshal drove up. Even the horse felt the intensity
                        of the moment. He shied at a dog and then kicked over the dashboard,
                        upsetting Anderson Crow's meagre dignity and almost doing the same to the
                        vehicle.
                    "You're a fine detective!" jeered Harry Squires; and poor old Anderson hated
                        him ever afterward.
                    "What have you heerd?" demanded the marshal.
                    "There's been a terrible murder at Boggs City, that's all. The chief of
                        police just telephoned to us that a farmer named Grover was found dead in a
                        ditch just outside of townshot through the head, his pockets rifled. It is
                        known that he started to town to deposit four hundred dollars hog-money in
                        the bank. The money is missing, and so are his horse and buggy. A young
                        fellow was seen in the neighbourhood early this morninga stranger. The
                        chief's  description corresponds with the man
                        who sold that rig to you. The murderer is known to have driven in this
                        direction. People saw him going almost at a gallop."
                    It is not necessary to say that Tinkletown thoroughly turned inside out with
                        excitement. The whole population was soon at the post-office, and everybody
                        was trying to supply Anderson Crow with wits. He had lost his own.
                    "We've got to catch that fellow," finally resolved the marshal. There was a
                        dead silence.
                    "He's got a pistol," ventured some one.
                    "How do you know?" demanded Mr. Crow keenly.
                    "Did y' see it?"
                    "He couldn't ha' killed that feller 'thout a gun."
                    "That's a fact," agreed Anderson Crow. "Well, we've got to get him, anyhow. I
                        call for volunteers! Who will join me in the search?" cried the marshal
                        bravely.
                    "I hate to go to Crow's Cliff after him," said George Ray. "It's a lonesome
                        place, and as dark as night 'mong them trees and rocks."
                    "It's our duty to catch him. He's a criminal, and besides, he's killed a
                        man," said Crow severely.
                    "And he has twenty-one dollars of your money," added Harry Squires. "I'll go
                        with you, Anderson. I've got a revolver."
                    "Look out there!" roared Anderson Crow. "The blamed thing might go off!" he
                        added as the reporter drew a shiny six-shooter from his pocket.
                    The example set by one brave man had its influence  on the crowd. A score or more
                        volunteered, despite the objections of their wives, and it was not long
                        before Anderson Crow was leading his motley band of sleuths down the lane to
                        the foot-log over which the desperado had gone an hour before.
                    It was at the beginning of the man-hunt that various citizens recalled
                        certain actions and certain characteristics of the stranger which had made
                        them suspicious from the start. His prodigal disposition of the box of
                        matches impressed most of them as reckless dare-devilism; his haste,
                        anxiety, and a single instance of mild profanity told others of his
                        viciousness. One man was sure he had seen the stranger's watch chain in
                        farmer Grover's possession; and another saw something black on his thumb,
                        which he now remembered was a powder stain.
                    "I noticed all them things," averred Anderson Crow, supreme once more.
                    "But what in thunder did he want with those hairpins?" inquired George
                        Ray.
                    "Never mind," said Anderson mysteriously. "You'll find out soon enough."
                    
                    "Do you know, Anderson?" some one asked.
                    
                    "Of course I do," responded the marshal loftily.
                    "Well, what were they for, then?"
                    "I'm not givin' any clews away. You just wait a while and see if I'm not
                        right."
                    And they were satisfied that the detective knew all about it. After crossing
                        the foot-log the party was divided as to which direction it should take. The
                        marshal said the man had run to the southeast, but for some inexplicable
                        reason quite a number of the pursuers wanted to hunt for him in the
                        northwest. Finally it was decided to separate into posses of ten, all to
                        converge at Crow's Cliff as soon as possible. There were enough
                        double-barrelled shotguns in the party to have conquered a pirate crew.
                    At the end of an hour Anderson Crow and his delegation came to the narrow
                        path which led to the summit of Crow's Cliff. They were very brave by this
                        time. A small boy was telling them he had seen the fugitive about
                        dinner-time "right where you fellers are standin' now."
                    
                    "Did he have any blood on him?" demanded Anderson Crow.
                    "No, sir; not 'less it was under his clothes."
                    "Did he say anythin' to you?"
                    "He ast me where this path went to."
                    "See that, gentlemen!" cried Anderson. "I knew I was right. He wanted"
                    "Well, where did he go?" demanded Harry Squires.
                    "I said it went to the top of the clift. An' then he said, 'How do you git to
                        the river?' I tole him to go down this side path here an' 'round the bottom
                        of the hill."
                    "Didn't he go up the cliff?" demanded the marshal.
                    "No, sir."
                    "Well, what in thunder did he ask me where the cliff was if he"
                    "So he went to the river, eh?" interrupted Squires. "Come on, men; he went
                        down through this brush and bottomland."
                    "He got lost, I guess," volunteered the boy.
                    "What!"
                    " 'Cause he yelled at me after he'd gone in a-ways an' astan' ast" The boy
                        paused irresolutely.
                    "Asked what?"
                    "He ast me where in hthe path was."
                    "By ginger, that's him, right out an' out!" exclaimed Mr. Crow excitedly.
                    " 'Nen he said he'd give me a quarter if I'd show him the way; so I"
                    "Did he give you the quarter?" questioned one of the men.
                    
                    "Yep. He'd a roll of bills as big as my leg." Everybody gasped and thought of
                        Grover's hog-money.
                    "You went to the river with him?" interrogated the reporter.
                    "I went as fur as the clearin', an' then he tole me to stop. He said he could
                        find the way from there. After that he run up the bank as if some one was
                        after him. There was a boat waitin' fer him under the clift."
                    "Did he get into it?" cried Squires.
                    "He tole me not to look or he'd break my neck," said the boy. The posse
                        nervously fingered its arsenal.
                    "But you did look?"
                    "Yep. I seen 'em plain."
                    "Them? Was there more than one?"
                    "There was a woman in the skift."
                    "You don't say so!" gasped Squires.
                    "Dang it, ain't he tellin' you!" Anderson ejaculated scornfully.
                    The boy was hurried off at the head of the posse, which by this time had been
                        reinforced. He led the way through the dismal thickets, telling his story as
                        he went.
                    "She was mighty purty, too," he said. "The feller waved his hat when he seen
                        her, an' she waved back. He run down an' jumped in the boat, an' 'nen
                        'nen"
                    "Then what?" exploded Anderson Crow.
                    "He kissed her!"
                    
                    "The d murderer!" roared Crow.
                    "He grabbed up the oars and rowed 'cross an' downstream. An' he shuck his
                        fist at me when he see I'd been watchin'," said the youngster, ready to
                        whimper now that he realised what a desperate character he had been dealing
                        with.
                    "Where did he land on the other side?" pursued the eager reporter.
                    "Down by them willer trees, 'bout half a mile down. There's the skift tied to
                        a saplin'. Cain't you see it?"
                    Sure enough, the stern of a small boat stuck out into the deep, broad river,
                        the bow being hidden by the bushes.
                    "Both of 'em hurried up the hill over yender, an' that's the last I seen of
                        'em," concluded the lad.
                    Anderson Crow and his man-hunters stared helplessly at the broad, swift
                        river, and then looked at each other in despair. There was no boat in sight
                        except the murderer's, and there was no bridge within ten miles.
                    While they were growling a belated detachment of hunters came up to the river
                        bank greatly agitated.
                    "A telephone message has just come to town sayin' there would be a thousand
                        dollars reward," announced one of the late arrivals; and instantly there was
                        an imperative demand for boats.
                    "There's an old raft upstream a-ways," said the boy, "but I don't know how
                        many it will kerry. They use it to pole corn over from Mr. Knoblock's farm
                        to them big summer places in the hills up yender."
                    "Is it sound?" demanded Anderson Crow.
                    
                    "Must be or they wouldn't use it," said Squires sarcastically. "Where is it,
                        kid?"
                    The boy led the way up the river bank, the whole company trailing behind.
                    "Sh! Not too loud," cautioned Anderson Crow.
                    Fifteen minutes later a wobbly craft put out to sea, manned by a picked crew
                        of determined citizens of Tinkletown. When they were in midstream a loud cry
                        came from the bank they had left behind. Looking back, Anderson Crow saw
                        excited men dashing about, most of them pointing excitedly up into the hills
                        across the river. After a diligent search the eyes of the men on the raft
                        saw what it was that had created such a stir at the base of Crow's
                        Cliff.
                    "There he is!" cried Anderson Crow in awed tones. There was no mistaking the
                        identity of the coatless man on the hillside. A dozen men recognised him as
                        the man they were after. Putting his hands to his mouth, Anderson Crow
                        bellowed in tones that savoured more of fright than command:
                    "Say!"
                    There was no response.
                    "Will you surrender peaceably?" called the captain of the craft.
                    There was a moment of indecision on the part of the fugitive. He looked at
                        his companion, and she shook her headthey all saw her do it.
                    Then he shouted back his reply.
                    
                    
                        THEN HE SHOUTED BACK HIS REPLY
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER III
                    The Culprits
                    "SHIP ahoy!" shouted the coatless stranger between his palms.
                    "Surrender or we'll fill you full of lead!" called Anderson Crow.
                    "Who are youpirates?" responded the fugitive with a laugh that chilled the
                        marrow of the men on the raft.
                    "I'll show you who we are!" bellowed Anderson Crow. "Send her ashore, boys,
                        fast. The derned scamp sha'n't escape us. Dead er alive, we must have
                        him."
                    As they poled toward the bank the woman grasped the man by the arm, dragging
                        him back among the trees. It was observed by all that she was greatly
                        terrified. Moreover, she was exceedingly fair to look uponyoung, beautiful,
                        and a most incongruous companion for the bloody rascal who had her in his
                        power. The raft bumped against the reedy bank, and Anderson Crow was the
                        first man ashore.
                    "Come on, boys; follow me! See that your guns are all right! Straight up the
                        hill now, an' spread out a bit so's we can surround him!" commanded he in a
                        high treble.
                    "But supposin' he surrounds us," panted a cautious
                            pu-suer, half way up the hill.
                    
                    "That's what we've got to guard against," retorted Anderson Crow. The posse
                        bravely swept up to and across the greensward; but the fox was gone. There
                        was no sight or sound of him to be had. It is but just to say that fatigue
                        was responsible for the deep breath that came from each member of the
                        pursuing party.
                    "Into the woods after him!" shouted Anderson Crow. "Hunt him down like a
                        rat!"
                    In the meantime a coatless young man and a most enticing young woman were
                        scampering off among the oaks and underbrush, consumed by excitement and no
                        small degree of apprehension.
                    "They really seem to be in earnest about it, Jack," urged the young woman
                        insistently, to offset his somewhat sarcastic comments.
                    "How the dickens do you suppose they got onto me?" he groaned. "I thought the
                        tracks were beautifully covered. No one suspected, I'm sure."
                    "I told you, dear, how it would turn out," she cried in a panic-stricken
                        voice.
                    "Good heavens, Marjory, don't turn against me! It all seemed so easy and so
                        sure, dear. There wasn't a breath of suspicion. What are we to do? I'll stop
                        and fight the whole bunch if you'll just let go my arm."
                    "No, you won't, Jack Barnes!" she exclaimed resolutely, her pretty blue eyes
                        wide with alarm. "Didn't you hear them say they'd fill you full of lead?
                        They had guns and everything. Oh, dear! oh, dear! isn't it horrid?"
                    
                    "The worst of it is they've cut us off from the river," he said miserably.
                        "If I could have reached the boat ahead of them they never could have caught
                        us. I could distance that old raft in a mile."
                    "I know you could, dear," she cried, looking with frantic admiration upon his
                        broad shoulders and brawny bare arms. "But it is out of the question
                        now."
                    "Never mind, sweetheart; don't let it fuss you so. It will turn out all
                        right, I know it will."
                    "Oh, I can't run any farther," she gasped despairingly.
                    "Poor little chap! Let me carry you?"
                    "You big ninny!"
                    "We are at least three miles from your house, dear, and surrounded by deadly
                        perils. Can you climb a tree?"
                    "I canbut I won't!" she refused flatly, her cheeks very red.
                    "Then I fancy we'll have to keep on in this manner.
                    It's a confounded shamethe whole business. Just as I thought everything was
                        going so smoothly, too. It was all arranged to a queen's tastenothing was
                        left undone. Bracken was to meet us at his uncle's boathouse down there,
                        andgood heavens, there was a shot!"
                    The sharp crack of a rifle broke upon the still, balmy air, as they say in
                        the "yellow-backs," and the fugitives looked at each other with suddenly
                        awakened dread.
                    "The fools!" grated the man.
                    
                    "What do they mean?" cried the breathless girl, very white in the face.
                    "They are trying to frighten us, that's all. Hang it! If I only knew the lay
                        of the land. I'm completely lost, Marjory. Do you know precisely where we
                        are?"
                    "Our home is off to the north about three miles. We are almost opposite
                        Crow's Cliffthe wildest part of the country. There are no houses along this
                        part of the river. All of the summer houses are farther up or on the other
                        side. It is too hilly here. There is a railroad off there about six miles.
                        There isn't a boathouse or fisherman's hut nearer than two miles. Mr.
                        Bracken keeps his boat at the pointtwo miles south, at least."
                    "Yes; that's where we were to have goneby boat. Hang it all! Why did we ever
                        leave the boat? You can never scramble through all this brush to Bracken's
                        place; it's all I can do. Look at my arms! They are scratched to"
                    "Oh, dear! It's dreadful, Jack. You poor fellow, let me"
                    "We haven't time, dearest. By thunder, I wouldn't have those Rubes head us
                        off now for the whole county. The jays! How could they have found us
                        out?"
                    "Some one must have told."
                    "But no one knew except the Brackens, you and I."
                    "I'll wager my head Bracken is saying hard things for fair down the river
                        there."
                    "Hehedoesn't swear, Jack," she panted.
                    "Why, you are ready to drop! Can't you go a step 
                        
                            " 'SAGE FOR A MINUTE OR TWO AT LEAST,' HE
                                    WHISPERED'
                            
                        
                         farther? Let's stop here and face 'em. I'll
                        bluff 'em out and we'll get to Bracken's some way. But I won't give up the game! Not for a million!"
                    "Then we can't stop. You forget I go in for gymnasium work. I'm as strong as
                        anything, only I'mI'm a bit nervous. Oh, I knew something would go wrong!"
                        she wailed. They were now standing like trapped deer in a little thicket,
                        listening for sounds of the hounds.
                    "Are you sorry, dear?"
                    "No, no! I love you, Jack, and I'll go through everything with you and for
                        you. Really," she cried with a fine show of enthusiasm, "this is jolly good
                        fun, isn't it? Being chased like regular bandits"
                    "Sh! Drop down, dear! There's somebody passing above ushear him?"
                    They crawled into a maze of hazel bushes with much less dignity than haste.
                        Two men sped by an instant later, panting and growling.
                    "Safe for a minute or two at least," he whispered as the crunching footsteps
                        were lost to the ear. "They won't come back this way, dear."
                    "They had guns, Jack!" she whispered, terrified.
                    "I don't understand it, hanged if I do," he said, pulling his brows into a
                        mighty scowl. "They are after us like a pack of hounds. It must mean
                        something. Lord, but we seem to have stirred up a hornet's nest!"
                    "Oh, dear, I wish we were safely at" she paused.
                    "At home?" he asked quickly.
                    "At Bracken's," she finished; and if any of the pursuers  had been near enough he might have heard the unmistakable
                        suggestion of a kiss.
                    "I feel better," he said, squaring his shoulders.
                        "Now, let me think. We must outwit these fellows, whoever they are. By
                        George, I remember one of them! That old fellow who bought the horse is with
                        them. That's it! The horse is mixed up in this, I'll bet my head." They sat
                        upon the ground for several minutes, he thinking deeply, she listening with
                        her pretty ears intent.
                    "I wonder if they've left anybody to guard our boat?" he said suddenly. "Come
                        on, Marjory; let's investigate! By George, it would be just like them to
                        leave it unprotected!"
                    Once more they were moving cautiously through the brush, headed for the
                        river. Mr. Jack Barnes, whoever he was and whatever his crime, was a
                        resourceful, clever young man. He had gauged the intelligence of the
                        pursuers correctly. When he peered through the brush along the river bank he
                        saw the skiff in the  reeds below, just as they
                        had left it. There was the lunch basket, the wee bit of a steamer trunk with
                        all its labels, a parasol and a small handbag.
                    "Goody, goody!" Marjory cried like a happy child.
                    "Don't show yourself yet, dearie. I'll make sure. They may have an ambuscade.
                        Wait here for me."
                    He crept down the bank and back again before she could fully subdue the
                        tremendous thumping his temerity had started in her left side.
                    "It's safe and sound," he whispered joyously. "The idiots have forgotten the
                        boat. Quick, dear; let's make a dash for it! Their raft is upstream a
                        hundred yards, and it is also deserted. If we can once get well across the
                        river we can give them the laugh."
                    "But they may shoot us from the bank," she protested as they plunged through
                        the weeds.
                    
                    
                    "They surely wouldn't shoot a woman!" he cried gayly.
                    "But you are not a woman!"
                    "And I'm not afraid of mice or men. Jump in!"
                    Off from the weeds shot the light skiff. The water splashed for a moment
                        under the spasmodic strokes of the oarsman, and then the little boat
                        streaked out into the river like a thing of life. Marjory sat in the stern
                        and kept her eyes upon the bank they were leaving. Jack Barnes drove every
                        vestige of his strength into the stroke; somehow he pulled like a man who
                        had learned how on a college crew. They were half way across the broad river
                        before they were seen from the hills. The half dozen men who lingered at the
                        base of Crow's Cliff had shouted the alarm to their friends on the other
                        side, and the fugitives were sighted once more. But it was too late. The
                        boat was well out of gunshot range and making rapid progress downstream in
                        the shelter of the high bluffs below Crow's Cliff. Jack Barnes was dripping
                        with perspiration, but his stroke was none the feebler.
                    "They see us!" she cried.
                    "Don't wriggle so, Marjorytrim boat!" he panted. "They can't hit us, and we
                        can go two miles to their one."
                    "And we can get to Bracken's!" she cried triumphantly. A deep flush
                        overspread her pretty face.
                    "Hooray!" he shouted with a grin of pure delight. Far away on the opposite
                        bank Anderson Crow and his sleuths were congregating, their baffled gaze
                        upon the man who had slipped out of their grasp. The  men of the posse were pointing at the boat and arguing
                        frantically; there were decided signs of dispute among them. Finally two
                        guns flew up, and then came the puffs of smoke, the reports and little
                        splashes of water near the flying skiff.
                    "Oh, they are shooting!" she cried in a panic.
                    "And rifles, too," he grated, redoubling his pull on the oars. Other shots
                        followed, all falling short. "Get down in the bottom of the boat, Marjory.
                        Don't sit up there and be"
                    "I'll sit right where I am," she cried defiantly.
                    Anderson Crow waved to the men under Crow's Cliff, and they began to make
                        their arduous way along the bank in the trail of the skiff. Part of the
                        armed posse hurried down and boarded the raft, while others followed the
                        chase by land.
                    "We'll beat them to Bracken's by a mile," cried Jack Barnes.
                    "If they don't shoot us," she responded. "Why, oh, why are they so intent
                        upon killing us?"
                    "They don't want you to be a widow andbreak alot of hearts," he said. "If
                        theyhit me now youwon't bedangerous as awidow."
                    "Oh, you heartless thing! How can you jest about it? I'dI'd go into mourning,
                        anyway, Jack," she concluded, on second thought. "We are just as good as
                        married, you see."
                    "It's niceof you to say it, dearbut we're a long way fromBracken's. Gee! That
                        was close!" A bullet splashed in the water not ten feet from the boat. "The
                        cowards! They're actually trying to  kill us!"
                        For the first time his face took on a look of alarm and his eyes grew
                        desperate. "I can't let them shoot at you, Marjory, dear! What the dickens
                        they want I don't know, but I'm going to surrender." He had stopped rowing
                        and was making ready to wave his white handkerchief on high.
                    "Never!" she cried with blazing eyes. "Give me the oars!" She slid into the
                        other rowing seat and tried to snatch the oars from the rowlocks.
                    "Bravo! I could kiss you a thousand times for that. Come on, you Indians!
                        You're a darling, Marjory." Again the oars caught the water, and Jack
                        Barnes's white handkerchief lay in the bottom of the boat. He was rowing for
                        dear life, and there was a smile on his face.
                    The raft was left far behind and the marksmen were put out of range with
                        surprising ease. Fifteen minutes later the skiff shot across the river and
                        up to the landing of Bracken's boathouse, while a mile back in the brush
                        Anderson Crow and his men were wrathfully scrambling in pursuit.
                    "Hey, Bracken! Jimmy!" shouted Jack Barnes, jumping out upon the little
                        wharf. Marjory gave him her hands and was whisked ashore and into his arms.
                        "Run into the boathouse, dear. I'll yank this stuff ashore. Where the
                        dickens is Bracken?"
                    The boathouse door opened slowly and a sleepy young man looked forth.
                    "I thought you'd never come," he yawned.
                    "Wake up, you old loafer! We're here and we are pursued! Where are George and
                        Amy?" cried  Mr. Barnes, doing herculean duty
                        as a baggage smasher.
                    "Pursued?" cried the sleepy young man, suddenly awake.
                    "Yes, and shot at!" cried Marjory, running past him and into the arms of a
                        handsome young woman who was emerging from the house.
                    "We've no time to lose, Jimmy! They are on to us, Heaven knows how. They are
                        not more than ten minutes behind us. Get it over with, Jimmy, for Heaven's
                        sake! Here, George, grab this trunk!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IV
                    Anderson Rectifies an Error
                    IN a jiffy the fugitives and their property were transferred to the interior
                        of the roomy boathouse, the doors bolted, and George Crosby stationed at a
                        window to act as lookout.
                    "Is it your father?" demanded the Rev. James Bracken, turning to Marjory.
                        Young Mrs. Crosby was looking on eagerly.
                    "Mr. Brewster is at home and totally oblivious to all this," cried Jack
                        Barnes. "I don't know what it means. Here's the license, Jimmy. Are you
                        ready, Marjory?"
                    "This is rather a squeamish business, Jack" began the young minister in the
                        neglige shirt. He was pulling on his coat as he made the remark.
                    "Oh, hurry, Jimmy; please hurry!" cried Marjory Brewster.
                    "Don't wait a second, Jimmy Bracken!" cried Amy Crosby, dancing with
                        excitement. "You can't go back on them now!"
                    Three minutes later there was no Marjory Brewster, but there was a Mrs. John
                        Ethelbert Barnesand she was kissing her husband rapturously.
                    "Now, tell us everything," cried Mrs. Crosby after the frantic
                        congratulations. The Reverend "Jimmy" Bracken, of the Eleventh Presbyterian
                        Church, was  the only one who seemed uncertain
                        as to his position. In the first place, old Judge Brewster was a man of
                        influence in the metropolis, from which all had fled for a sojourn in the
                        hills. He and his daughter were Episcopalians, but that made them none the
                        less important in the eyes of "Jimmy" Bracken. In the second place, Jack
                        Barnes was a struggling lawyer, in the Year of our Lord 1880, and possessed
                        of objectionable poverty. The young men had been roommates at college.
                        Friendship had overcome discretion in this instance, at least. The deed
                        being done, young Mr. Bracken was beginning to wonder if it had not been
                        overdone, so to speak.
                    "I wish somebody would tell me!" exclaimed Jack Barnes, with a perplexed
                        frown. "The beastly jays shot at us and all that. You'd think I was an
                        outlaw. And they blazed away at Marjory, too, hang them!"
                    Marjory, too excited to act like a blushing bride, took up the story and told
                        all that had happened. George Crosby became so interested that he forgot to
                        keep guard.
                    "This is a funny mess!" he exclaimed. "There's something wrong"
                    "Hey, you!" came a shout from the outside.
                    "There they are!" cried Marjory, flying to her husband's side. "What are we
                        to do?"
                    "You mean, what are they to do? We're married, and they can't get around
                        that, you know. Let 'em come!" cried the groom exultantly. "You don't regret
                        it, do you, sweetheart?" quite anxiously.
                    
                    She smiled up into his eyes, and he felt very secure.
                    "What do you fellows want?" demanded Crosby from the window. Anderson Crow
                        was standing on the river bank like a true Napoleon, flanked by three trusty
                        riflemen.
                    "Who air you?" asked Anderson in return. He was panting heavily, and his legs
                        trembled.
                    "None of your business! Get off these grounds at once; they're private!"
                    "None o' your sass, now, young man; I'm an officer of the law, an' a
                        detective to boot! We sha'n't stand any nonsense. The place is surrounded
                        and he can't escape! Where is he?"
                    "That's for you to find out if you're such a good detective! This is David
                        Bracken's place, and you can find him at his home on the hilltop
                        yonder!"
                    "Ask him what we've done, George," whispered Barnes.
                    "We ain't after Mr. Bracken, young feller, but you know what we do want! He's in thereyou're shielding himwe won't parley much
                        longer! Send him out!" said Anderson Crow.
                    "If you come a foot nearer you'll get shot into the middle of kingdom come!"
                        shouted Crosby defiantly.
                    The inmates gasped, for there was not a firearm on the place.
                    "Be careful!" warned the Reverend "Jimmy" nervously.
                    "Goin' to resist, eh? Well, we'll get him; don't you worry; an' that ornery
                        female o' hisn', too!"
                    
                    "Did you hear that?" exclaimed Jack Barnes. "Let me get at the old rat." He
                        was making for the door when the two women obstructed the way. Both were
                        frantic with fear.
                    "But he called you a female!" roared he.
                    "Well, I am!" she wailed miserably.
                    "Who is it you want?" asked Crosby from the window.
                    "That's all right," roared Anderson Crow; "purduce him at once!"
                    "Is this the fellow?" and Crosby dragged the Reverend "Jimmy" into view.
                        There was a moment's inspection of the cadaverous face, and then the sleuths
                        shook their heads.
                    "Not on your life!" said Mr. Crow. "But he's in thereIke Smalley seen him an'
                        his paramount go up the steps from the landin'! 'Twon't do no good to hide
                        him, young feller; he's"
                    "Well, let me tell you something. You are too late they're married!" cried
                        Crosby triumphantly.
                    "I don't give a cuss if they're married and have sixteen children!" shouted
                        the exasperated Crow, his badge fairly dancing. "He's got to surrender!"
                    "Oh, he does, eh?"
                    "Yes, sir-ee-o-bob; he's got to give up, dead or alive! Trot him out lively,
                        now!"
                    "I don't mind telling you that Mr. Barnes is here; but I'd like to know why
                        you're hunting him down like a wild beast, shooting at him and MissI mean
                        Mrs. Barnes. It's an outrage!"
                    "Oh, we ain't the on'y people that can kill and 
                        slaughter! She's just as bad as he is, for that matter an' so are you and
                        that other lantern-jawed outlaw in there." The Reverend "Jimmy" gasped and
                        turned a fiery red.
                    
                    "Did he call me asay!" and he pushed Crosby aside. "I'd have you to
                        understand that I'm a minister of the gospelI am the Reverend James Bracken,
                        of"
                    A roar of laughter greeted his attempt to explain; and there were a few
                        remarks so uncomplimentary that the man of cloth sank back in sheer
                        hopelessness.
                    "Well, I'll give them reason to think that I'm something of a desperado,"
                        grated the Reverend "Jimmy," squaring his shoulders. "If they attempt to put
                        foot inside my uncle's house I'llI'll smash a few heads."
                    "Bravo!" cried Mrs. Crosby. She was his cousin, and up to that time had had
                        small regard for her mild-mannered relative.
                    "He can preach the funeral!" shouted Ike Smalley. By this time there were a
                        dozen men on the bank below.
                    "I give you fair warning," cried Anderson Crow 
                        impressively. "We're goin' to surround the house, an' we'll take that rascal
                        if we have to shoot the boards into sawdust!"
                    "But what has he done, except to get married?" called Crosby as the posse
                        began to spread out.
                    
                    "Do you s'pose I'm fool enough to tell you if you don't know?" said Anderson
                        Crow. "Just as like as not you'd be claimin' the thousand dollars reward if
                        you knowed it had been offered! Spread out, boys, an' we'll show 'em dern
                        quick!"
                    There was dead silence inside the house for a full minute. Every eye was wide
                        and every mouth was open in surprise and consternation.
                    "A thousand dollars reward!" gasped Jack Barnes. "Then, good Lord, I must have done something!"
                    "What have you been doing, Jack Barnes?" cried his bride,
                        aghast.
                    
                    "I must have robbed a train," said he dejectedly.
                    "Well, this is serious, after all," said Crosby. "It's not
                        an eloper they're after, but a desperado."
                    "A kidnaper, perhaps," suggested his wife.
                    "What are we to do?" demanded Jack Barnes.
                    "First, old man, what have you actually done?" asked the Reverend
                        "Jimmy."
                    "Nothing that's worth a thousand dollars, I'm dead sure," said Barnes
                        positively. "By George, Marjory, this is a nice mess I've led you into!"
                    "It's all right, Jack; I'm happier than I ever was before in my life. We ran
                        away to get married, and I'll go to jail with you if they'll take me."
                    "This is no time for kissing," objected Crosby sourly. "We must find out what
                        it all means. Leave it to me."
                    It was getting dark in the room, and the shadows were heavy on the hills.
                        While the remaining members of the besieged party sat silent and depressed
                        upon the casks and boxes, Crosby stood at the window calling to the
                        enemy.
                    "Is he ready to surrender?" thundered Anderson Crow from the shadows.
                    Then followed a brief and entirely unsatisfactory, dialogue between the two
                        spokesmen. Anderson Crow was firm in his decision that the fugitive did not
                        have to be told what he had done; and George Crosby was equally insistent
                        that he had to be told before he could decide whether he was guilty or
                        innocent.
                    "We'll starve him out!" said Anderson Crow.
                    
                    "But there are ladies here, my good man; you won't subject them to such
                        treatment!"
                    "You're all of a kindwe're going to take the whole bunch!"
                    "What do you think will happen to you if you are mistaken in your man?"
                    "We're not mistaken, dang ye!"
                    "He could sue you for every dollar you possess. I know, for I'm a
                        lawyer!"
                    "Now, I'm sure you're in the job with him. I s'pose you'll try to work in the
                        insanity dodge! It's a nest of thieves and robbers! Say, I'll give you five
                        minutes to surrender; if you don't, we'll set fire to the derned
                        shanty!"
                    "Look here, boys," said Jack Barnes suddenly, "I've done nothing and am not
                        afraid to be arrested. I'm going to give myself up." Of course there was a
                        storm of protest and a flow of tears, but the culprit was firm. "Tell the
                        old fossil that if he'll guarantee safety to me I'll give up!"
                    Anderson was almost too quick in promising protection.
                    "Ask him if he will surrender and make a confession to meI am Anderson Crow,
                        sir!" was the marshal's tactful suggestion.
                    "He'll do both, Mr. Crow!" replied Crosby.
                    "We've got to take the whole bunch of you, young man. You're all guilty of
                        conspiracy, the whole caboodle!"
                    "But the ladies, you darned old Rubethey can't"
                    
                    "Looky here, young feller, you can't dictate to me. I'll have you to"
                    "We'll all go!" cried Mrs. Crosby warmly.
                    "To the very end!" added the new Mrs. Barnes.
                    "What will your father say?" demanded the groom.
                    "He'll disown me anyway, dear, so what's the difference?"
                    "It's rather annoying for a minister" began the Reverend "Jimmy," putting on
                        his hat.
                    "We'll beg off for you!" cried Mrs. Crosby ironically.
                    "But I'm going to jail, too," finished he grimly.
                    "All right," called Crosby from the window; "here we come!"
                    And forth marched the desperate quintet, three strapping young men and two
                        very pretty and nervous young women. They were met by Anderson Crow and a
                        dozen armed men from Tinkletown, every one of them shaking in his boots. The
                        irrepressible Mrs. Crosby said "Boo!" suddenly, and half the posse jumped as
                        though some one had thrown a bomb at them.
                    "Now, I demand an explanation of this outrage," said Jack Barnes savagely.
                        "What do you mean by shooting at me and mymy wife and arresting us, and all
                        that?"
                    "You'll find out soon enough when you're strung up fer it," snarled Anderson
                        Crow. "An' you'll please hand over that money I paid fer the hoss and buggy.
                        I'll learn you how to sell stolen property to me."
                    
                    "Oh, I'm a horse-thief, am I? This is rich. And they'll string me up, eh?
                        Next thing you'll be accusing me of killing that farmer up near Boggs
                        City."
                    "Well, by gosh! you're a cool one!" ejaculated Anderson Crow. "I s'pose
                        you're goin' ter try the insanity dodge."
                    "It's lucky for me that they caught him," said Barnes as the herd of
                        prisoners moved off toward the string of boats tied to Mr. Bracken's
                        wharf.
                    "Come off!" exclaimed Squires, the reporter, scornfully. "We're onto you, all
                        right, all right."
                    "What! Do you think I'm the man whowell, holy mackerel! Say, you gravestones,
                        don't you ever hear any news out here? Wake up! They caught the murderer at
                        Billsport, not more than five miles from your jay burg. I was driving
                        through the town when they brought him in. That's what made me late, dear,"
                        turning to Marjory.
                    "Yes, and I'll bet my soul that here comes some one with the news," cried
                        George Crosby, who had heard nothing of the tragedy until this instant.
                    A rowboat containing three men was making for the landing. Somehow, Anderson
                        Crow and his posse felt the ground sinking beneath them. Not a man uttered a
                        sound until one of the newcomers called out from the boat:
                    "Is Anderson Crow there?"
                    "Yes, sir; what is it?" demanded Crow in a wobbly voice.
                    "Your wife wants to know when in thunder you're 
                        comin' home." By this time the skiff was bumping against the landing.
                    "You tell her to go to Halifax!" retorted Anderson Crow. "Is that all you
                        want?"
                    "They nabbed that murderer up to Billsport long 'bout 'leven o'clock," said
                        Alf Reesling, the town drunkard. "We thought we'd row down and tell you so's
                        you wouldn't be huntin' all night for the feller whohello, you got him,
                        eh?"
                    "Are you fellers lyin'?" cried poor Anderson Crow.
                    
                    
                    "Not on your life. We knowed about the captcher over in town just about half
                        an hour after you started 'cross the river this afternoon."
                    "Youfour hours ago? Youyou" sputtered the marshal. "An' why didn't you let us
                        know afore this?"
                    "There was a game o' baseball in Hasty's lot, an'" began one of the newcomers
                        sheepishly.
                    "Well, I'll be gosh-whizzled!" gasped Anderson Crow, sitting down
                        suddenly.
                    An hour and a half later Mr. and Mrs. John Ethelbert Barnes were driven up to
                        Judge Brewster's country place in Mr. David Bracken's brake. They were
                        accompanied by Mr. and Mrs. George Crosby, and were carrying out the plans
                        as outlined in the original programme.
                    "Where's papa?" Marjory tremulously inquired of the footman in the
                        hallway.
                    "He's waitin' for you in the library, missI should say Mrs. Barnes," replied
                        the man, a trace of excitement in his face.
                    "Mrs. Barnes!" exclaimed four voices at once.
                    "Who told you, William?" cried Marjory, leaning upon Jack for support.
                    "A Mr. Anderson Crow was here not half an hour ago, ma'am, to assure Mr.
                        Brewster as to how his new son-in-law was in nowise connected with the
                        murder up the way. He said as how he had personally investigated the case,
                        missma'am, and Mr. Brewster could rely on his word for it, Mr. Jack was  not the man. He told him as how you was
                        married at the boathouse."
                    "Yesand then?" cried Marjory eagerly.
                    "Mr. Brewster said that Mr. Jack wasn't born to be hanged, and for me to have
                        an extry plate laid at the table for him to-night," concluded William with
                        an expressive grin.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER V
                    The Babe on the Doorstep
                    IT was midnight in Tinkletown, many months after the
                        events mentioned in the foregoing chapters, and a blizzard was raging. The
                        February wind rasped through the bare trees, shrieked around the corners of
                        lightless houses and whipped its way through the scurrying snow with all the
                        rage of a lion. The snow, on account of the bitter cold in the air, did not
                        fly in big flakes, but whizzed like tiny bullets, cutting the flesh of men
                        and beasts like the sting of wasps. It was a good night to be indoors over a
                        roaring fire or in bed between extra blankets. No one, unless commanded by
                        emergency, had the temerity to be abroad that night.
                    The Crow family snoozed comfortably in spite of the calliope shrieks of the
                        wind. The home of the town marshal was blanketed in peace and the wind had
                        no terrors for its occupants. They slept the sleep of the toasted. The
                        windows may have rattled a bit, perhaps, and the shutters may have banged a
                        trifle too remorselessly, but the Crows were not to be disturbed.
                    The big, old-fashioned clock in the hall downstairs was striking twelve when
                        Anderson Crow awoke with a start. He was amazed, for to awake in the middle
                        of the night was an unheard-of proceeding for him.
                    
                    He caught the clang of the last five strokes from the clock, however, and was
                        comforting himself with the belief that it was five o'clock, after all, when
                        his wife stirred nervously.
                    "Are you awake, Anderson?" she asked softly.
                    "Yes, Eva, and it's about time to get up. It jest struck five. Doggone, it's
                        been blowin' cats and dogs outside, ain't it?" he yawned.
                    
                    "Five? It's twelvenow, don't tell me you counted the strokes, because I did
                        myself. Ain't it queer we should both git awake at this unearthly hour?"
                    "Well," murmured he sleepily now that it was not five o'clock, "it's a mighty
                        good hour to go back to sleep ag'in, I reckon."
                    "I thought I heard a noise outside," she persisted.
                    
                    "I don't blame you," he said, chuckling. "It's been out there all night."
                    "I mean something besides the wind. Sounded like some one walkin' on the
                        front porch."
                    "Now, look here, Eva, you ain't goin' to git me out there in this blizzardin
                        my stockin' feetlookin' fer robbers"
                    "Just the same, Anderson, I'm sure I heard some one. Mebby it's some poor
                        creature freezin' an' in distress. If I was you, I'd go and look out there.
                        Please do."
                    "Doggone, Eva, if you was me you'd be asleep instid of huntin' up trouble on
                        a night like this. They ain't nothin' down there an' youbut, by cracky!
                        mebby you're right. Supposin' there is some poor cuss out there huntin' a
                        place to sleep. I'll go and look;" and Mr. Crow, the most tender-hearted man
                        in the world, crawled shiveringly but quickly from the warm bed. In his
                        stocking feetAnderson slept in his socks on those bitter nightshe made his
                        way down the front stairs, grumbling but determined. Mrs. Crow followed
                        close behind, anxious to verify the claim that routed him from his nest.
                    "It may be a robber," she chattered, as he pulled aside a front window
                        curtain. Anderson drew back hastily.
                    "Well, why in thunder didn't you say so before?" he gasped. "Doggone, Eva,
                        that's no way to do! He might 'a' fired through the winder at me."
                    "But he's in the house by this time, if it was a robber,"  she whispered. "He wouldn't stand out on the
                        porch all night."
                    "That's right," he whispered in reply. "You're a good deducer, after all. I
                        wish I had my dark lantern. Thunderation!" He stubbed his toe against the
                        sewing machine. There is nothing that hurts more than unintentional contact
                        with a sewing machine. "Why in sixty don't you light a light, Eva? How can
                        I"
                    "Listen!" she whispered shrilly. "Hear that? Anderson, there's some one
                        walkin' on the porch!"
                    " 'y gosh!" faltered he. "Sure as Christmas! You wait here, Eva, till I go
                        upstairs an' put on my badge and I'll"
                    "I'll do nothing of the kind. You don't ketch me stayin' down here alone,"
                        and she grabbed the back of his nightshirt as he started for the stairs.
                    "Sho! What air you afeerd of? I'll get my revolver, too. I never did see such
                        a coward'y calf as"
                    Just then there was a tremendous pounding on the front door, followed by the
                        creaking of footsteps on the frozen porch, a clatter down the steps, and
                        then the same old howling of the wind. The Crows jumped almost out of their
                        scanty garments, and then settled down as if frozen to the spot. It was a
                        full minute before Anderson found his voicein advance of Mrs. Crow at that,
                        which was more than marvellous.
                    "What was that?" he chattered.
                    "A knock!" she gasped.
                    "Some neighbour's sick."
                    
                    "Old Mrs. Luce. Oh, goodness, how my heart's going!"
                    "Why don't you open the door, Eva?"
                    "Why don't you? It's your place."
                    "But, doggone it, cain't you seeI mean feelthat I ain't got hardly any
                        clothes on? I'd ketch my death o' cold, an' besides"
                    "Well, I ain't got as much on as you have. You got socks on an'"
                    "But supposin' it's a woman," protested he. "You wouldn't want a woman to see
                        me lookin' like this, would you? Go ahead an'"
                    "I suppose you'd like to have a man see me like this. I ain't used to
                        receivin' men inbut, say, whoever it was, is gone. Didn't you hear the
                        steps? Open the door, Anderson. See what it is."
                    And so, after much urging, Anderson Crow unbolted his front door and turned
                        the knob. The wind did the rest. It almost blew the door off its hinges,
                        carrying Mr. and Mrs. Crow back against the wall. A gale of snow swept over
                        them.
                    "Gee!" gasped Anderson, crimping his toes. Mrs. Crow was peering under his
                        arm.
                    "Look there!" she cried. Close to the door a large bundle was lying.
                    "A present from some one!" speculated Mr. Crow; but some seconds passed
                        before he stooped to pick it up. "Funny time fer Santy to be callin' 'round.
                        Wonder if he thinks it's next Christmas."
                    "Be careful, Anderson; mebby it's an infernal machine!" cried his wife.
                    
                    "Well, it's loaded, 'y ginger," he grunted as he straightened up in the face
                        of the gale. "Shut the door, Eva! Cain't you see it's snowin'?"
                    "I'll bet it was Joe Ramsey leavin' a sack o' hickor' nuts fer us," she said
                        eagerly, slamming the door.
                    "You better bolt the door. He might change his mind an' come back fer 'em,"
                        observed her husband. "It don't feel like hickor' nuts. Why, Eva, it's a
                        baskita reg'lar clothes baskit. What in thunder do"
                    "Let's get a light out by the kitchen fire. It's too cold in here."
                    Together they sped to the kitchen with the mysterious offering from the
                        blizzard. There was a fire in the stove, which Anderson replenished, while
                        Eva began to remove the blankets and packing from the basket, which she had
                        placed on the hearth. Anderson looked on eagerly.
                    "Lord!" fell from the lips of both as the contents of the basket were exposed
                        to their gaze.
                    A baby, alive and warm, lay packed in the blankets, sound asleep and happy.
                        For an interminable length of time the Crows, en
                            dishabille, stood and gazed open-mouthed and awed at the little
                        stranger. Ten minutes later, after the ejaculations and surmises, after the
                        tears and expletives, after the whole house had been aroused, Anderson Crow
                        was plunging amiably but aimlessly through the snowstorm in search of the
                        heartless wretch who had deposited the infant on his doorstep. His top boots
                        scuttled up and down the street, through yards and barn lots for an 
                        
                            "A BABY, ALIVE AND WARM, LAY PACKED IN THE
                                    BLANKETS"
                            
                        
                         hour, but despite the fact that he carried his
                        dark lantern and trailed like an Indian bloodhound, he found no trace of the
                        wanton visitor. In the meantime, Mrs. Crow, assisted by the entire family,
                        had stowed the infant, a six-weeks-old girl, into a warm bed, ministering to
                        the best of her ability to its meagre but vociferous wants. There was no
                        more sleep in the Crow establishment that night. The head of the house
                        roused a half dozen neighbours from their beds to tell them of the
                        astounding occurrence, with the perfectly natural result that one and all
                        hurried over to see the baby and to hear the particulars.
                    
                    Early next morning Tinkletown wagged with an excitement so violent that it
                        threatened to end in a municipal convulsion. Anderson Crow's home was
                        besieged. The snow in his front yard was packed to an icy consistency by the
                        myriad of footprints that fell upon it; the interior of the house was
                        "tracked" with mud  and slush and three window
                        panes were broken by the noses of curious but unwelcome spectators.
                        Altogether, it was a sensation unequalled in the history of the village.
                        Through it all the baby blinked and wept and cooed in perfect peace, guarded
                        by Mrs. Crow and the faithful progeny who had been left by the stork, and
                        not by a mysterious stranger.
                    The missionary societies wanted to do something heroic, but Mrs. Crow headed
                        them off; the sewing circle got ready to take charge of affairs, but Mrs.
                        Crow punctured the project; figuratively, the churches ached for a chance to
                        handle the infant, but Mrs. Crow stood between. And all Tinkletown called
                        upon Anderson Crow to solve the mystery before it was a day older.
                    "It's purty hard to solve a mystery that's got six weeks' start o' me," said
                        Anderson despairingly, "but I'll try, you bet. The doggone thing's got a
                        parent or two somewhere in the universe, an' I'll locate 'em er explode
                        somethin'. I've got a private opinion about it myself."
                    Whatever this private opinion might have been, it was not divulged. Possibly
                        something in connection with it might have accounted for the temporary
                        annoyance felt by nearly every respectable woman in Tinkletown. The marshal
                        eyed each and every one of them, irrespective of position, condition or age,
                        with a gleam so accusing that the Godliest of them flushed and then turned
                        cold. So knowing were these equitable looks that before night every woman in
                        the village was constrained to believe the worst of her  neighbour, and almost as ready to look with suspicion upon
                        herself.
                    One thing was certainbusiness was at a standstill in Tinkletown. The old men
                        forgot their chess and checker games at the corner store; young men
                        neglected their love affairs; women forgot to talk about each other;
                        children froze their ears rather than miss any of the talk that went about
                        the wintry streets; everybody was asking the question, "Whose baby is
                        it?"
                    But the greatest sensation of all came late in the day when Mrs. Crow, in
                        going over the garments worn by the babe, found a note addressed to Anderson
                        Crow. It was stitched to the baby's dress, and proved beyond question that
                        the strange visitor of the night before had selected not only the house, but
                        the individual. The note was to the point. It said:
                    "February 18, 1883.
                    "ANDERSON CROW: To your good and
                        merciful care an unhappy creature consigns this helpless though well-beloved
                        babe. All the world knows you to be a tender, loving, unselfish man and
                        father. The writer humbly, prayerfully implores you to care for this babe as
                        you would for one of your own. It is best that her origin be kept a secret.
                        Care for her, cherish her as your own, and at the end of each year the sum
                        of a thousand dollars will be paid to you as long as she lives in your
                        household as a member thereof. Do not seek to find her parents. It would be
                        a fool's errand. May God bless you and yours, and may God care for and
                        protect Rosaliethe name she shall bear."
                    
                    Obviously, there was no signature and absolutely no clew to the identity of
                        the writer. Two telegraph line repairers who had been working near Crow's
                        house during the night, repairing damage done by the blizzard, gave out the
                        news that they had seen a cloaked and mysterious-looking woman standing near
                        the Methodist Church just before midnight, evidently disregarding the rage
                        of the storm. The sight was so unusual that the men paused and gazed at her
                        for several minutes. One of them was about to approach her when she turned
                        and fled down the side street near by.
                    "Was she carryin' a big bundle?" asked Anderson Crow.
                    The men replied in the negative.
                    "Then she couldn't have been the party wanted. The one we're after certainly
                        had a big bundle."
                    "But, Mr. Crow, isn't it possible that these men saw her after she left the
                        basket at" began the Presbyterian minister.
                    "That ain't the way I deduce it," observed the town detective tartly. "In the
                        first place, she wouldn't 'a' been standin' 'round like that if the job was
                        over, would she? Wouldn't she 'a' been streakin' out fer home? 'Course she
                        would."
                    "She may have paused near the church to see whether you took the child in,"
                        persisted the divine.
                    "But she couldn't have saw my porch from the back end of the church."
                    "Nobody said she was standing back of the church," said the lineman.
                    
                    "What's that? You don't mean it?" cried Anderson, pulling out of a difficulty
                        bravely. "That makes all the difference in the world. Why didn't you say she
                        was in front of the church? Cain't you see we've wasted time here jest
                        because you didn't have sense 'nough to"
                    "Anybody ought to know it 'thout being told, you old Rube," growled the
                        lineman, who was from Boggs City.
                    "Here, now, sir, that will do you! I won't 'low no man to"
                    "Anderson, be quiet!" cautioned Mrs. Crow. "You'll wake the baby!" This
                        started a new train of thought in Anderson's perplexed mind.
                    "Mebby she was waitin' there while some oneher husband, fer instancewas
                        leavin' the baskit," volunteered Isaac Porter humbly.
                    "Don't bother me, Ike; I'm thinkin' of somethin' else," muttered Anderson.
                        "Husband nothin'! Do you s'pose she'd 'a' trusted that baby with a fool
                        husband on a terrible night like that? Ladies and gentlemen, this here baby
                        was left by a female resident of this very town." His
                        hearers gasped and looked at him wide-eyed. "If she has a husband, he don't
                        know he's the father of this here baby. Don't you see that a woman couldn't
                        'a' carried a heavy baskit any great distance? She couldn't 'a' packed it
                        from Boggs City er New York er Baltimore, could she? She wouldn't 'a' been
                        strong enough. No, siree; she didn't have far to come, folks. An' she was a
                        woman, 'cause ain't all type-writin'  done by
                        women? You don't hear of men typewriters, do you? People wouldn't have 'em.
                        Now, the thing fer me to do first is to make a house-to-house search to see
                        if I c'n locate a typewritin' machine anywheres. Get out of the way, Toby.
                        Doggone you boys, anyhow; cain't you see I want ter get started on this
                        job?"
                    "Say, Anderson," said Harry Squires, the reporter, "I'd like to ask if there
                        is any one in Tinkletown, male or female, who can afford to pay you a
                        thousand dollars a year for taking care of that kid?"
                    "What's that?" slowly oozed from Anderson's lips.
                    "You heard what I said. Say, don't you know you can bring up a kid in this
                        town for eleven or twelve dollars a year?"
                    "You don't know what you're talkin' about," burst from Anderson's indignant
                        lips, but he found instant excuse to retire from the circle of speculators.
                        A few minutes later he and his wife were surreptitiously re-reading the
                        note, both filled with the fear that it said $10.00 instead of $1000.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VI
                    Reflection and Deduction
                    "By gum, it does say a thousand," cried Anderson, mightily relieved. "Harry
                        Squires is a fool. He said jest now that it could be did fer eleven or
                        twelve dollars. Don't you suppose, Eva, that the mother of this here child
                        knows what it costs to bring 'em up? Of course she does. When I find her
                        I'll prove it by her own lips that she knows. But don't bother me any more,
                        Eva; I got to git out an' track her down. This is the greatest job I've had
                        in years."
                    "See here, Anderson," said his wife thoughtfully and somewhat stealthily,
                        "let's go slow about this thing. What do you want to find her for?"
                    "Whywhy, doggone it, Eva, what air you talkin' about?" began he in
                        amazement.
                    "Well, it's just this way: I don't think we can earn a thousand dollars a
                        year easier than takin' care of this child. Don't you see? Suppose we keep
                        her fer twenty years. That means twenty thousand dollars, don't it? It beats
                        a pension all to pieces."
                    "Well, by ginger!" gasped Anderson, vaguely comprehending. "Fifty years would
                        mean fifty thousand dollars, wouldn't it Gee whiz, Eva!"
                    "I don't imagine we can keep her that long."
                    "No," reflectively; "the chances are she'd want ter git married inside of
                        that time. They always  " 'Tain't that,
                        Anderson. You an' me'd have to live to be more'n a hundred years old."
                    "That's so. We ain't spring chickens, are we, deary?"
                    She put her hard, bony hand in his and there was a suspicion of moisture in
                        the kindly old eyes.
                    "I love to hear you call me 'deary,' Anderson. We never get too old for
                        that."
                    He coughed and then patted her hand rather confusedly. Anderson had long
                        since forgotten the meaning of sentiment, but he was surprised to find that
                        he had not forgotten how to love his wife.
                    "Shucks!" he muttered bravely. "We'll be kissin' like a couple of young jay
                        birds first thing we know. Doggone if it ain't funny how a baby, even if it
                        is some one else's, kinder makes a feller foolisher'n he intends to be."
                        Hand in hand they watched the sleeping innocent for several minutes. Finally
                        the detective shook himself and spoke:
                    "Well, Eva, I got to make a bluff at findin' out whose baby it is, ain't I?
                        My reputation's at stake. I jest have to investigate."
                    "I don't see that any harm can come from that, Anderson," she replied, and
                        neither appreciated the sarcasm unintentionally involved.
                    "I won't waste another minute," he announced promptly. "I will stick to my
                        theory that the parents live in Tinkletown."
                    "Fiddlesticks!" snorted Mrs. Crow disgustedly, and then left him to cultivate
                        the choleric anger her exclamation had inspired.
                    
                    "Doggone, I wish I hadn't patted her hand," he lamented. "She didn't deserve
                        it. Consarn it, a woman's always doin' something to spoil things."
                    And so he fared forth with his badges and stars, bent on duty, but not
                        accomplishment. All the town soon knew that he was following a clew, but all
                        the town was at sea concerning its character, origin, and plausibility. A
                        dozen persons saw him stop young Mrs. Perkins in front of Lamson's store,
                        and the same spectators saw his feathers droop as she let loose her wrath
                        upon his head and went away with her nose in the air and her cheeks far more
                        scarlet than when Boreas kissed them, and all in response to a single remark
                        volunteered by the faithful detective. He entered Lamson's store a moment
                        later, singularly abashed and red in the face.
                    "Doggone," he observed, seeing that an explanation was expected, "she might
                        'a' knowed I was only foolin'."
                    A few minutes later he had Alf Reesling, the town sot, in a far corner of the
                        store talking to him in a most peremptory fashion. It may be well to mention
                        that Alf had so far forgotten himself as to laugh at the marshal's temporary
                        discomfiture at the hands of Mrs. Perkins.
                    "Alf, have you been havin' another baby up to your house without lettin' me
                        know?" demanded Anderson firmly.
                    "Anderson," replied Alf, maudlin tears starting in his eyes, "it's not kind
                        of you to rake up my feelin's  like this. You
                        know I been a widower fer three years."
                    "I want you to understand one thing, Alf Reesling. A detective never knows anything till he proves it. Let me warn you, sir,
                        you are under suspicion. An' now, let me tell you one thing more. Doggone
                        your ornery hide, don't you ever laugh ag'in like you did jest now er
                        I'll"
                    Just then the door flew open with a bang and Edna Crow, Anderson's eldest,
                        almost flopped into the store, her cap in her hand, eyes starting from her
                        head. She had run at top speed all the way from home.
                    "Pop," she gasped. "Ma says fer you to hurry home! She says fer you to run!"
                    Anderson covered the distance between Lamson's store and his own home in
                        record time. Indeed, Edna, flying as fast as her slim legs could twinkle,
                        barely beat her father to the front porch. It was quite clear to Mr. Crow
                        that something unusual had happened or Mrs. Crow would not have summoned him
                        so peremptorily.
                    She was in the hallway downstairs awaiting his arrival, visibly agitated.
                        Before uttering a word she dragged him into the little sitting-room and
                        closed the door. They were alone.
                    "Is it dead?" he panted.
                    "No, but what do you think, Anderson?" she questioned excitedly.
                    "I ain't had time to think. You don't mean to say it has begun to talk an'
                        c'n tell who it is," he faltered.
                    
                    "Heavens noan' it only six weeks old."
                    "Well, then, what in thunder has happened?"
                    "A detective has been here."
                    "Good gosh!"
                    "Yes, a real detective. He's out there in the kitchen
                        gettin' his feet warm by the bake-oven. He says he's lookin' for a
                        six-weeks-old baby. Anderson, we're goin' to lose that twenty thousand."
                    "Don't cry, Eva; mebby we c'n find another baby some day. Has he seen
                        thetheit?" Anderson was holding to the stair-post for support.
                    "Not yet, but he says he understands we've got one here that ain't been taggedthat's what he said'tagged.' What does he mean by
                        that?"
                    "Whywhy, don't you see? Just as soon as he tags it, it's it. Doggone, I wonder if it would make any legal difference if I
                        tagged it first."
                    "He's a queer-lookin' feller, Anderson. Says he's in disguise, and he
                        certainly looks like a regular scamp."
                    "I'll take a look at him an' ast fer his badge." Marshal Crow paraded boldly
                        into the kitchen, where the strange man was regaling the younger Crows with
                        conversation the while he partook comfortably of pie and other things more
                        substantial.
                    "Are you Mr. Crow?" he asked nonchalantly, as Anderson appeared before
                        him.
                    "I am. Who are you?"
                    "I am Hawkshaw, the detective," responded the man, his mouth full of
                        blackberry pie.
                    
                    "Gee whiz!" gasped Anderson. "Eva, it's the celebrated Hawkshaw."
                    "Right you are, sir. I'm after the kid."
                    "You'll have to identify it," something inspired Anderson to say.
                    "Sure. That's easy. It's the one that was left on your doorstep last night,"
                        said the man glibly.
                    "Well, I guess you're right," began Anderson disconsolately.
                    "Boy or girl?" demanded Mrs. Crow, shrewdly and very quickly. She had been inspecting the man more  closely than before, and woman's intuition was
                        telling her a truth that Anderson overlooked. Mr. Hawkshaw was not only very
                        seedy, but very drunk.
                    "Madam," he responded loftily, "it is nothing but a mere child."
                    "I'll give you jest one minute to get out of this house," said Mrs. Crow
                        sharply, to Anderson's consternation. "If you're not gone, I'll douse you
                        with this kettle of scalding water. Open the back door, Edna. He sha'n't
                        take his dirty self through my parlour again. Open that door,
                            Edna!"
                    Edna, half paralysed with astonishment, opened the kitchen door just in time.
                        Mr. Hawkshaw was not so drunk but he could recognise disaster when it
                        hovered near. As she lifted the steaming kettle from the stove he made a
                        flying leap for the door. The rush of air that followed him as he shot
                        through the aperture almost swept Edna from her feet. In ten seconds the
                        tattered Hawkshaw was scrambling over the garden fence and making lively if
                        inaccurate tracks through last year's cabbage patch.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VII
                    The Mysterious Visitor
                    THE entire Crow family watched him in stupefaction until he disappeared down
                        the lane that led to Hap-good's grove. It was then, and not until then, that
                        Anderson Crow took a breath.
                    "Good Lord, Eva, what do you mean?" he gasped.
                    "Mean?" she almost shrieked. "Anderson Crow, didn't you recognise that
                        feller? He ain't no more detective than you er me. He's the self-same tramp
                        that you put in the calaboose last week, and the week before, too. I thought
                        I'd seen his ugly face before. He's"
                    "Great jumpin' geeswax!" roared the town marshal. "I recollect him now. He's
                        the one that said he'd been exposed to smallpox an' wanted to be kept where
                        it was warm all winter. Well, I'll beI'll be"
                    "Don't say it, pa. He said it fer you when he clumb over that barb-wire fence
                        out there," cried Edna gleefully.
                    Several days of anxiety and energy followed this interesting episode. In that
                        time two tramps attempted to obtain food and shelter at Crow's home, one on
                        the plea that he was the father of the unfortunate child, the other as an
                        officer for the Foundlings' Home at Boggs City. Three babies were left on
                        the doorsteptwo in one nighttheir fond mothers confessing  by letters that they appreciated Anderson's
                        well-known charitable inclinations and implored him to care for their
                        offspring as if they were his own. The harassed marshal experienced some
                        difficulty in forcing the mothers to take back their children.
                    In each instance he was reviled by the estimable ladies, all of whom accused
                        him of being utterly heartless. Mrs. Crow came to his rescue and told the
                        disappointed mothers that the scalding water was ready for application if
                        they did not take their baskets of babies away on short order. It may be
                        well for the reputation of Tinkletown to mention that one of the donors was
                        Mrs. Raspus, a negro washerwoman who did work for the "dagoes" engaged in
                        building the railroad hard by; another was the wife of Antonio Galli, a
                        member of the grading gang, and the third was Mrs. Pool, the widow of a
                        fisherman who had recently drowned himself in drink.
                    It is quite possible that Anderson might have had the three infants on his
                        hands permanently had not the mothers been so eager to know their fate. They
                        appeared in person early the next morning to see if the babies had frozen to
                        death on the doorstep. Mrs. Pool even went so far as to fetch some extra
                        baby clothes which she had neglected to drop with her male. Mrs. Raspus came
                        for her basket, claiming it was the only one she had in which to "tote" the
                        washing for the men.
                    After these annoying but enlivening incidents Anderson was permitted to
                        recover from his daze and to throw off symptoms of nervous prostration.
                    
                    Tinkletown resumed its tranquil attitude and the checker games began to
                        thrive once more. Little Rosalie was a week older than when she came, but it
                        was five weeks before anything happened to disturb the even tenor of the
                        foster-father's way. He had worked diligently in the effort to discover the
                        parents of the baby, but without result. Two or three exasperated husbands
                        in Tinkletown had threatened to blow his brains out if he persisted in
                        questioning their wives in his insinuating manner, and one of the kitchen
                        girls at the village inn threw a dishpan at him on the occasion of his third
                        visit of inquiry. A colored woman in the employ of the Baptist minister
                        denied that Rosalie was her child, but when he insisted, agreed with fine
                        sarcasm to "go over an' have a look at it," after his assurance that it was
                        perfectly white.
                    
                    "Eva, I've investigated the case thoroughly," he said at last, "an' there is
                        no solution to the mystery. The only thing I c'n deduce is that the child is
                        here an' we'll have to take keer of her. Now, I wonder if that woman really
                        meant it when she said we'd have  a thousand
                        dollars at the end of each year. Doggone, I wish the year was up, jest to
                        see."
                    "We'll have to wait, Anderson, that's all," said Mrs. Crow. "I love the baby
                        so it can't matter much. I'm glad you're through investigatin'. It's been
                        most tryin' to me. Half the women in town don't speak to me."
                    It was at the end of Rosalie's fifth week as a member of the family that
                        something happened. Late one night when Anderson opened the front door to
                        put out the cat a heavily veiled woman mounted the steps and accosted him.
                        In some trepidation he drew back and would have closed the door but for her
                        eager remonstrance.
                    "I must see you, Mr. Crow," she cried in a low, agitated voice.
                    "Who are you?" he demanded. She was dressed entirely in black.
                    "I came to see you about the baby."
                    "That won't do, madam. There's been three tramps here to hornswoggle us an'
                        I"
                    "I must see her, Mr. Crow," pleaded the stranger, and he
                        was struck by the richness of her voice.
                    "Mighty queer, it seems to me," he muttered hesitatingly. "Are you any kin to
                        it?"
                    "I am very much interested."
                    "By giminy, I believe you're the one who left her here," cried the detective.
                        "Are you a typewriter?"
                    "I'll answer your questions if you'll allow me to step inside. It is very
                        cold out here."
                    Anderson Crow stood aside and the tall, black figure  entered the hall. He led her to the warm sitting-room and gave
                        her a chair before the "base-burner."
                    "Here, Mr. Crow, is an envelope containing two hundred and fifty dollars.
                        That proves my good faith. I cannot tell you who I am nor what relation I
                        bear to the baby. I am quite fully aware that you will not undertake to
                        detain me, for it is not an easy matter to earn a thousand dollars a year in
                        this part of the world. I am going abroad next week and do not expect to
                        return for a long, long time. Try as I would, I could not go without seeing
                        the child. I will not keep you out of bed ten minutes, and you and your wife
                        may be present while I hold Rosalie in my arms. I know that she is in good
                        hands, and I have no intention of taking her away. Please call Mrs.
                        Crow."
                    Anderson was too amazed to act at once. He began to flounder interrogatively,
                        but the visitor abruptly checked him.
                    "You are wasting time, Mr. Crow, in attempting to question my authority or
                        identity. No one need know that I have made this visit. You are perfectly
                        secure in the promise to have a thousand dollars a year; why should you
                        hesitate? As long as she lives with you the money is yours. I am advancing
                        the amount you now hold in order that her immediate wants may be provided
                        for. You are not required to keep an account of the money paid to you. There
                        are means of ascertaining at once whether she is being well cared for and
                        educated by you, and if it becomes apparent that you are not doing your
                        duty, she shall be removed from your custody. From time to time  you may expect written instructions fromfrom
                        one who loves her."
                    "I jest want to ast if you live in Tinkletown?" Anderson managed to say.
                    "I do not," she replied emphatically.
                    "Well, then, lift your veil. If you don't live here I sha'n't know you."
                    "I prefer to keep my face covered, Mr. Crow; believe me and trust me. Please
                        let me see her." The plea was so earnest that Anderson's heart gave a great
                        thump of understanding.
                    "By ginger, you are her mother!" he gasped. Mrs. Crow came in at this
                        juncture, and she was much quicker at grasping the situation than her
                        husband. It was in her mind to openly denounce the woman for her
                        heartlessness, but her natural thriftiness interposed. She would do nothing
                        that might remove the golden spoon from the family mouth.
                    The trio stole upstairs and into the warm bedchamber. There, with Anderson
                        Crow and his wife looking on from a remote corner of the room, the tall
                        woman in black knelt beside the crib that had housed a generation of Crows.
                        The sleeping Rosalie did not know of the soft kisses that swept her little
                        cheek. She did not feel the tears that fell when the visitor lifted her
                        veil, nor did she hear the whisperings that rose to the woman's lips.
                    "That is all," murmured the mysterious stranger at last, dropping her veil as
                        she arose. She staggered as she started for the door, but recovered herself
                        instantly. Without a word she left the room, the  Crows following her down the stairs in silence. At the bottom she paused,
                        and then extended her hands to the old couple. Her voice faltered as she
                        spoke.
                    "Let me clasp your hands and let me tell you that my love and my prayers are
                        forever for you and for that little one up there. Thank you. I know you will
                        be good to her. She is well born. Her blood is as good as the best. Above
                        all things, Mrs. Crow, she is not illegitimate. You may easily suspect that
                        her parents are wealthy or they could not pay so well for her care. Some day
                        the mystery surrounding her will be cleared. It may not be for many years. I
                        can safely say that she will be left in your care for twenty years at least.
                        Some day you will know why it is that Rosalie is not supposed to exist. God
                        bless you."
                    She was gone before they could utter a word. They watched her walk swiftly
                        into the darkness; a few minutes later the sound of carriage wheels suddenly
                        broke upon the air. Anderson Crow and his wife stood over the "base-burner,"
                        and there were tears in their thoughtful eyes.
                    "She said twenty years, Eva. Let's see, this is 1883. What would that make
                        it?"
                    "About 1903 or 1904, Anderson."
                    "Well, I guess we c'n wait if other people can," mused he. Then they went
                        slowly upstairs and to bed.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VIII
                    Some Years Go By
                    TINKLETOWN as a unit supported Anderson in his application for guardianship
                        papers. They were filed immediately after the secret visit of the mysterious
                        woman; the Circuit Court at Boggs City, after hearing the evidence, at once
                        entered the appointment of Mr. Crow. When the court asked in mild surprise
                        why he did not adopt the child, Anderson and Eva looked at each other
                        sheepishly and were silent for a full minute. Then Anderson spoke up, a bit
                        huskily:
                    "Well, you see, judge, her name would have to be Crow, an' while it's a good
                        name an' an honoured one, it don't jest seem to fit the young 'un. She
                        'pears to be more of a canary than a crow, figuratively speakin', an' Eva
                        an' me jest decided we'd give her a different sort of a last name if we
                        could find one. Seems to me that Rosie Canary would be a good one, but Eva
                        an' the childern are ag'in me. They've decided to call her Rosalie Gray, an'
                        I guess that about settles it. If you don't mind, I reckon that name c'n go
                        in the records. Besides, you must recollect that she's liable to have a lot
                        of property some time, an' it seems more fit fer me to be guardian than
                        foster-father if that time ever comes. It'll be easier to say good-bye if
                        she keers to leave us."
                    That same day Anderson deposited two hundred and  fifty dollars to his credit in the First National Bank, saying to his
                        wife as he walked away from the teller's window, "I guess Rosalie cain't
                        starve till the bank busts, an' maybe not then."
                    Of course Tinkletown knew that a sum of money had been paid to Anderson, but
                        no one knew that it had been handed to him in person by an interested party.
                        Had Anderson and his wife even whispered that such a visit had occurred, the
                        town would have gone into a convulsion of wrath; the marshal's pedestal
                        would have been jerked out from under him without compunction or mercy. Eva
                        cautioned him to be more than silent on the subject for the child's sake as
                        well as for their own, and Anderson saw wisdom in her counselling. He even
                        lagged in his avowed intention to unravel the mystery or die in the attempt.
                        A sharp reminder in the shape of an item in the Banner
                        restored his energies, and he again took up the case with a vigour that
                        startled even himself. Anything in the shape of vigour startled his
                        wife.
                    Harry Squires, the reporter, who poked more or less fun at Anderson from time
                        to time because he had the "power of the press behind him," some weeks later
                        wrote the following item about the "baby mystery," as he called it, in large
                        type:
                    "There is no news in regard to the child found upon the doorstep of our
                        esteemed fellow-citizen, Anderson Crow, last February. The item concerning
                        its discovery first appeared in the columns of the Banner,
                        as will be remembered by our many readers.
                    
                    Detective Crow promised developments some time ago, but they have not showed
                        up. It is rumoured that he has a new clew, but it cannot be substantiated.
                        The general impression is that he does not know whether it is a boy or girl.
                        We advise Mr. Crow to go slow. He should not forget the time when he
                        arrested Mr. John Barnes, two years ago, for the murder of Mr. Grover, and
                        afterward found that the young gent was merely eloping with Judge Brewster's
                        daughter, which was no crime. We saw the girl. Those of our readers who were
                        alive at the time doubtless recall the excitement of that man-hunt two years
                        ago. Mr. Barnes, as innocent as a child unborn, came to our little city
                        engaged in the innocent pastime of getting married. At the same time it was
                        reported that a murder had been committed in this county. Mr. Crow had his
                        suspicions aroused and pursued Mr. Barnes down the river and arrested him.
                        It was a fine piece of detective work. But, unfortunately for Mr. Crow, the
                        real murderer had been caught in the meantime. Mr. Barnes was guilty only of
                        stealing Judge Brewster's daughter and getting married to her. The last
                        heard of them they were happy in New York. They even forgave Mr. Crow, it is
                        reported. It is to be hoped that our clever detective will soon jump down
                        upon the heartless parents of this innocent child, but it is also to be
                        hoped that he think at least four times before he leaps."
                    To say that the foregoing editorial disturbed the evenness of Mr. Crow's
                        temper would be saying nothing at all. In the privacy of his barn lot
                        Anderson did a war dance that shamed Tecumseh. He threatened to annihilate
                        Harry Squires "from head to foot," for publishing the base slander.
                    
                    "Doggone his hide," roared poor Anderson, "fer two cents I'd tell all I know
                        about him bein' tight up at Boggs City three years ago. He couldn't walk
                        half an inch that time without staggerin'. Anyhow, I wouldn't have chased
                        Mr. Barnes that time if it hadn't been fer Harry Squires. He egged me on,
                        doggone his hide. If he didn't have that big typesetter from Albany over at
                        the Banner office to back him up I'd go over an' bust his
                        snoot fer him. After all the items I've give him, too. That's all the thanks  you git fer gittin' up news fer them blamed reporters. But I'll show him!
                        I wonder what he'd think if I traced that baby right up to his ownWhat's that, Eva? Well, now, you don't know anything about
                        it neither, so keep your mouth shet. Harry Squires is a purty sly cuss.
                        Mebby it's his'n. You ain't supposed to know. You jest let me do my own
                        deducin'. I don't want no blamed woman tellin' me who to shadder. An' you,
                        too, Edner; get out of the way, consarn ye! The next thing you'll be tellin' me what to doan' me your father, too!"
                    And that is why Anderson Crow resumed his search for the parents of Rosalie
                        Gray. Not that he hoped or expected to find them, but to offset the
                        pernicious influence of Harry's "item." For many days he followed the most
                        highly impossible clews, some of them intractable, to supply a rather
                        unusual word of description. In other words, they reacted with a vigour that
                        often found him unprepared but serene. Consequences bothered Anderson but
                        little in those days of despised activity.
                    It is not necessary to dwell upon the incidents of the ensuing years, which
                        saw Rosalie crawl from babyhood to childhood and then stride proudly through
                        the teens with a springiness that boded ill for Father Time. Regularly each
                        succeeding February there came to Anderson Crow a package of twenty dollar
                        bills amounting to one thousand dollars, the mails being inscrutable. The
                        Crow family prospered correspondingly, but there was a liberal frugality
                        behind it all that meant well for Rosalie when the time came  for an accounting. Anderson and Eva "laid by"
                        a goodly portion of the money for the child, whom they loved as one of their
                        own flesh and blood. The district school lessons were followed later on by a
                        boarding-school education down State, and then came the finishing touches at
                        Miss Brown's in New York.
                    Rosalie grew into a rare flower, as dainty as the rose, as piquant as the
                        daisy. The unmistakable mark of the high bred glowed in her face, the fine
                        traces of blue blood graced her every movement, her every tone and look. At
                        the time that she, as well as every one else in Tinkletown, for that matter,
                        was twenty years older than when she first came to Anderson's home, we find
                        her the queen of the village, its one rich human possession, its one truly
                        sophisticated inhabitant. Anderson Crow and his wife were so proud of her
                        that they forgot their duty to their own offspring; but if the Crow children
                        resented this it was not exhibited in the expressions of love and admiration
                        for their foster-sister. Edna Crow, the eldest of the girlsAnderson called
                        her "Edner"was Rosalie's most devoted slave, while Roscoe, the
                        twelve-year-old boy, who comprised the rear rank of Anderson's little army,
                        knelt so constantly at her shrine that he fell far behind in his studies,
                        and stuck to the third reader for two years.
                    Anderson had not been idle in all these years. He was fast approaching his
                        seventieth anniversary, but he was not a day older in spirit than when we
                        first made his acquaintance. True, his hair was thinner and whiter, and his
                        whiskers straggled a little more  carelessly
                        than in other days, but he was as young and active as a youth of twenty.
                        Hard times did not worry him, nor did domestic troubles. Mrs. Crow often
                        admitted that she tried her best to worry him, but it was like "pouring
                        water on a duck's back." He went blissfully on his way, earning encomiums
                        for himself and honours for Tinkletown. There was no grave crime committed
                        in the land that he did not have a well-defined scheme for apprehending the
                        perpetrators. His "deductions" at Lamson's store never failed to draw out
                        and hold large audiences, and no one disputed his theories in public. The
                        fact that he was responsible for the arrest of various hog, horse, and
                        chicken thieves from time to time, and for the continuous seizure of the two
                        town drunkards, Tom Folly and Alf Reesling, kept his reputation untarnished,
                        despite the numerous errors of commission and omission that crept in
                        between.
                    That Rosalie's mysterious friendsor enemies, it might have beenkept close and
                        accurate watch over her was manifested from time to time. Once, when
                        Anderson was very ill with typhoid fever, the package of bills was
                        accompanied by an unsigned, typewritten letter. The writer announced that
                        Mr. Crow's state of health was causing some anxiety on Rosalie's accountthe
                        child was then six years oldand it was hoped that nothing serious would
                        result. Another time the strange writer, in a letter from Paris, instructed
                        Mr. Crow to send Rosalie to a certain boarding school and to see that she
                        had French, German, and music from competent instructors.
                    
                    Again, just before the girl went to New York for her two years' stay in Miss
                        Brown's school, there came a package containing $2500 for her own personal
                        use. Rosalie often spoke to Anderson of this mysterious sender as the "fairy
                        godmother"; but the old marshal had a deeper and more significant
                        opinion.
                    Perhaps the most anxious period in the life of Anderson Crow came when
                        Rosalie was about ten years old. A new sheriff had been elected in Bramble
                        County, and he posed as a reformer. His sister taught school in Tinkletown,
                        and Rosalie was her favourite. She took an interest in the child that was
                        almost the undoing of Mr. Crow's prosperity. Imagining that she was
                        befriending the girl, the teacher appealed to her brother, the sheriff,
                        insisting that he do what he could to solve the mystery of her birth. The
                        sheriff saw a chance to distinguish himself. He enlisted the help of an
                        aggressive prosecuting attorney, also new, and set about to investigate the
                        case.
                    The two officers of the law descended upon Tinkle-town one day and began to
                        ask peremptory questions. They went about it in such a high-handed, lordly
                        manner that Anderson took alarm and his heart sank like lead. He saw in his
                        mind's eye the utter collapse of all his hopes, the dashing away of his cup
                        of leisure and the upsetting of the "fairy godmother's" plans. Pulling his
                        wits together, he set about to frustrate the attack of the meddlers. Whether
                        it was his shrewdness in placing obstacles in their way or whether he
                        coerced the denizens into blocking the sheriff's investigation does not
                        matter.
                    
                    It is only necessary to say that the officious gentleman from Boggs City
                        finally gave up the quest in disgust and retired into the oblivion usual to
                        county officials who try to be progressive. It was many weeks, however,
                        before Anderson slept soundly. He was once more happy in the consciousness
                        that Rosalie had been saved from disaster and that he had done his duty by
                        her.
                    "I'd like to know how them doggone jays from Boggs City expected to find out
                        anything about that child when I hain't been able to," growled Mr. Crow in
                        Lamson's store one night. "If they'll jest keep their blamed noses out of
                        this affair I'll find out who her parents are some day. It takes time to
                        trace down things like this. I guess I know what I'm doin', don't I,
                        boys?"
                    "That's what you do, Anderson," said Mr. Lamson, as Anderson reached over and
                        took a handful of licorice drops from the jar on the counter.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IX
                    The Village Queen
                    THE spring of 1903 brought Rosalie back to Tinkle-town after her second and
                        last year with Miss Brown in New York City. The sun seemed brighter, the
                        birds sang more blithely, the flowers took on a new fragrance and the
                        village spruced up as if Sunday was the only day in the week. The young men
                        of the town trembled when she passed them by, and not a few of them grew
                        thin and haggard for want of food and sleep, having lost both appetite and
                        repose through a relapse in love. Her smile was the same as of yore, her
                        cheery greetings the same, and yet the village swains stood in awe of this
                        fine young aristocrat for days and days. Gradually it dawned upon them that
                        she was human, after all, despite her New York training, and they slowly
                        resumed the old-time manner of courting, which was with the eyes
                        exclusively.
                    A few of the more venturesomebut not the more ardentasked her to go walking,
                        driving, or to the church "sociables," and there was a rivalry in town which
                        threatened to upset commerce. There was no theatre in Tinkletown, but they
                        delighted in her descriptions of the gorgeous play-houses in New York. The
                        town hall seemed smaller than ever to them. The younger merchants and their
                        clerks neglected  business with charming
                        impartiality, and trade was going to "rack and ruin" until Rosalie declined
                        to marry George Rawlins, the minister's son. He was looked upon as the
                        favoured one; but she refused him in such a decisive manner that all others
                        lost hope and courage. It is on record that the day after George's cong Tinkletown indulged in a complete business
                        somersault. Never before had there been such strict attention to customers;
                        merchants and clerks alike settled down to the inevitable and tried to
                        banish Rosalie's face from the cost tags and trading stamps of their dull,
                        mercantile cloister. Even Tony Brink, the blacksmith's 'prentice, fell into
                        the habits of industry, but with an absent-mindedness that got him kicked
                        through a partition in the smithy when he attempted to shoe the fetlock of
                        Mr. Martin's colt instead of its hoof.
                    The Crow family took on a new dignity. Anderson gave fifty dollars to the
                        Foreign Missionary Society of the Presbyterian Church, claiming that a
                        foreign education had done so much for his ward; and Mrs. Crow succeeded in
                        holding two big afternoon teas before Rosalie could apply the check
                        rein.
                    One night Anderson sat up until nearly ten o'clockan unheard-of proceeding
                        for him. Rosalie, with the elder Crow girls, Edna and Susie, had gone to
                        protracted meeting with a party of young men and women. The younger boys and
                        girls were in bed, and Mrs. Crow was yawning prodigiously. She never retired
                        until Anderson was ready to do likewise. Suddenly it dawned upon her that he
                        was unusually quiet  and preoccupied. They were
                        sitting on the moonlit porch.
                    "What's the matter, Anderson? Ain't you well?" she asked at last.
                    "No; I'm just thinkin'," he responded, rather dismally. "Doggone, I cain't
                        get it out of my head, Eva."
                    "Can't get what out?"
                    "About Rosalie."
                    "Well, what about her?"
                    "That's jest like a womanalways fergittin' the most important things in the
                        world. Don't you know that the twenty years is up?"
                    "Of course I know it, but 'tain't worryin' me any. She's still here, ain't
                        she? Nobody has come to take her away. The thousand dollars came all right
                        last February, didn't it? Well, what's the use worryin'?"
                    "Mebbe you're right, but I'm skeered to death fer fear some one will turn up
                        an' claim her, er that a big estate will be settled, er somethin' awful like
                        that. I don't mind the money, Eva; I jest hate to think of losin' her, now
                        that she's such a credit to us. Besides, I'm up a stump about next
                        year."
                    "Well, what happens then?"
                    "Derned if I know. That's what's worryin' me."
                    "I don't see why you"
                    "Certainly you don't. You never do. I've got to do all the thinkin' fer this
                        fambly. Next year she's twenty-one years old an' her own boss, ain't she? I
                        ain't her guardeen after that, am I? What happens then, I'd like to
                        know."
                    
                    "You jest have to settle with the court, pay over to her what belongs to her
                        and keep the thousand every spring jest the same. Her people, whoever they
                        be, are payin' you fer keepin' her an' not her fer stayin' here. 'Tain't
                        likely she'll want to leave a good home like this 'un, is it? Don't worry
                        till the time comes, Anderson."
                    "That's jest the point. She's lived in New York an' she's got used to it.
                        She's got fine idees; even her clothes seem to fit different. Now, do you
                        s'pose that fine-lookin' girl with all her New York trim-min's 's goin' to
                        hang 'round a fool little town like this? Not much! She's goin' to dig out
                        o' here as soon 's she gits a chance; an' she's goin' to live right where
                        her heart tells her she belongsin the metropolees of New York. She don't
                        belong in no jim-crow town like this. Doggone, Eva, I hate to see 'er
                        go!"
                    There was such a wail of bitterness in the old constable's remark that Mrs.
                        Crow felt the tears start to her own eyes. It was the girl they both wanted,
                        after allnot the money. Rosalie, coming home with her party some time
                        afterward, found the old couple still seated on the porch. The young people
                        could not conceal their surprise.
                    "Counting the stars, pop?" asked Edna Crow.
                    "He's waiting for the eclipse," bawled noisy Ed Higgins, the grocer's clerk.
                        "It's due next winter. H'are you, Anderson?"
                    "How's that?" was Anderson's rebuke.
                    "I mean Mr. Crow," corrected Ed, with a nervous 
                        glance at Rosalie, who had been his companion for the evening.
                    
                    "Oh, I'm jest so-so," remarked Anderson, mollified. "How was the party?"
                    "It wasn't a party, Daddy Crow," laughed Rosalie, seating herself in front of
                        him on the porch rail. "It was an experience meeting.
                    Alf Reesling has reformed again. He told us all about his last attack of
                        delirium tremens."
                    "You don't say so! Well, sir, I never thought Alf could find the time to
                        reform ag'in. He's too busy gittin' tight," mused Anderson. "But I guess
                        reformin' c'n git to be as much a habit as anythin' else."
                    "I think he was a little woozy to-night," ventured 'Rast Little.
                    "A little what?"
                    "Drunk," explained 'Rast, without wasting words. 'Rast had acquired the
                        synonym at the business men's carnival in Boggs City the preceding fall.
                        Sometimes he substituted the words "pie-eyed," "skeed," "lit up," etc., just
                        to show his worldliness.
                    
                    After the young men had departed and the Crow girls had gone upstairs with
                        their mother Rosalie slipped out on the porch and sat herself down upon the
                        knee of her disconsolate guardian.
                    "You are worried about something, Daddy Crow," she said gently. "Now, speak
                        up, sir. What is it?"
                    "It's time you were in bed," scolded Anderson, pulling his whiskers
                        nervously.
                    "Oh, I'm young, daddy. I don't need sleep. But you never have been up as late
                        as this since I've known you."
                    "I was up later'n this the time you had the whoopin'-cough, all right."
                    "What's troubling you, daddy?"
                    "Oh, nothin'nothin' at all. Doggone, cain't a man set out on his own porch
                        'thout"
                    "Forgive me, daddy. Shall I go away and leave you?"
                    "Gosh a'mighty, no!" he gasped. "That's what's worryin' meoh, you didn't mean
                        forever. You jest meant to-night? Geminy crickets, you did give me a skeer!"
                        He sank back with a great sigh of relief.
                    "Why, I never expect to leave you forever," she cried, caressing his scanty
                        hair. "You couldn't drive me away. This is home, and you've been too good to
                        me all these years. I may want to travel after a while, but I'll always come
                        back to you, Daddy Crow."
                    "I'mI'm mighty glad to hear ye say that, Rosie. Ye seeye see, me an' your ma
                        kinder learned to love you, an'an'"
                    
                    "Why, Daddy Crow, you silly old goose! You're almost crying!"
                    "What's that? Now, don't talk like that to me, you little whipper-snapper, er
                        you go to bed in a hurry. I never cried in my life," growled Anderson in a
                        great bluster.
                    "Well, then, let's talk about something elseme, for instance. Do you know,
                        Daddy Crow, that I'm too strong to live an idle life. There is no reason why
                        I shouldn't have an occupation. I want to work accomplish something."
                    Anderson was silent a long time collecting his nerves.
                    "You wouldn't keer to be a female detective, would you?" he asked drily.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER X
                    Rosalie Has Plans of Her Own
                    "Do be serious, daddy. I want to do something worth while. I could teach
                        school or"
                    "Not much! You ain't cut out fer that job. Don't you know that ever'body
                        hates school-teachers when they're growed up? Jerusalem, how I still hate
                        old Rachel Kidwell! An' yet she's bin dead nigh onto thirty years. She was
                        my first teacher. You wasn't born to be hated by all the boys in the
                        district. I don't see what put the idee of work inter your head You got
                        'bout eight thousand dollars in the bank an'"
                    "But I insist that the money is yours, daddy. My fairy godmother paid it to
                        you for keeping, clothing, and educating me. It is not mine."
                    "You talk like I was a boardin' school instead o' bein' your guardeen. No,
                        siree; it's your money, an' that ends it. You git it when you're
                        twenty-one."
                    "We'll see, daddy," she replied, a stubborn light in her dark eyes. "But I
                        want to learn to do something worth while. If I had a million it would be
                        just the same."
                    "You'll have something to do when you git married," observed he sharply.
                    "Nonsense!"
                    "I s'pose you're goin' to say you never expect to  git married. They all say itan' then take the first feller 'at comes
                        along."
                    "I didn't take the first, or the second, or the third, or the"
                    "Hold on! Gosh a'mighty, have you had that many? Well, why don't you go into
                        the matrimonial agent's business? That's an occupation."
                    "Oh, none of them was serious, daddy," she said navely.
                    "You could have all of the men in the county!" he declared proudly. "Only,"
                        he added quickly, "it wouldn't seem jest right an' proper."
                    "There was a girl at Miss Brown's a year ago who had loads of money, and yet
                        she declared she was going to have an occupation. Nobody knew much about her
                        or why she left school suddenly in the middle of a term. I liked her, for
                        she was very nice to me when I first went there, a stranger. Mr.
                        Reddonyou've heard me speak of himwas devoted to her, and I'm sure she liked
                        him. It was only yesterday I heard from her. She is going to teach school in
                        this township next winter."
                    "An' she's got money?"
                    "I am sure she had it in those days. It's the strangest thing in the world
                        that she should be coming here to teach school in No. 5. Congressman Ritchey
                        secured the appointment for her, she says. The township trusteewhatever his
                        name isfor a long time insisted that he must appoint a teacher from
                        Tinkle-town and not an outsider. I am glad she is coming here becausewell,
                        daddy, because she is like the  girls I knew in
                        the city. She has asked me to look up a boarding place for next winter. Do
                        you know of any one, daddy, who could let her have a nice room?"
                    "I'll bet my ears you'd like to have your ma take her in right here. But I
                        don't see how it c'n be done, Rosie-posie. There's so derned many of us now,
                        an'"
                    "Oh, I didn't mean that, daddy. She couldn't come here. But don't you think
                        Mrs. Jim Holabird would take her in for the winter?"
                    "P'raps. She's a widder. She might let her have Jim's room now that there's a
                        vacancy. You might go over an' ast her about it to-morrer. It's a good thing
                        she's a friend of yourn, Rosalie, because if she wasn't I'd have to fight
                        her app'intment."
                    "Why, daddy!" reproachfully.
                    "Well, she's a foreigner, an' I don't think it's right to give her a job when
                        we've got so many home products that want the place an' who look unpopular
                        enough to fill the bill. I'm fer home industry every time, an' 'specially as
                        this girl don't appear to need the place. I don't see what business
                        Congressman Ritchey has foolin' with our school system anyhow. He'd better
                        be reducin' the tariff er increasin' the pensions down to Washington."
                    "I quite agree with you, Daddy Crow," said Rosalie with a diplomacy that
                        always won for her. She knew precisely how to handle her guardian, and that
                        was why she won where his own daughters failed. "And now, good-night, daddy.
                        Go to bed and don't worry  about me. You'll
                        have me on your hands much longer than you think or want. What time is
                        it?"
                    Anderson patted her head reflectively as he solemnly drew his huge silver
                        time-piece from an unlocated pocket. He held it out into the bright
                        moonlight.
                    "Geminy crickets!" he exclaimed. "It's forty-nine minutes to twelve!"
                        Anderson Crow's policy was to always look at things through the small end of
                        the telescope.
                    
                    The slow, hot summer wore away, and to Rosalie it was the longest that she
                        ever had experienced. She was tired of the ceaseless twaddle of Tinkletown,
                        its flow of "missions," "sociables," "buggy-horses," "George Rawlin's new
                        dress-suit," "harvesting," and "politics"for even the children talked
                        politics. Nor did the assiduous attentions of the village young men possess
                        the power to shorten the days for her  and they
                        certainly lengthened the nights. She liked them because they were her
                        friends from the beginningand Rosalie was not a snob. Not for the world
                        would she have hurt the feelings of one poor, humble, adoring soul in
                        Tinkletown; and while her smile was none the less sweet, her laugh none the
                        less joyous, in her heart there was the hidden longing that smiled only in
                        dreams. She longed for the day that was to bring Elsie Banks to live with
                        Mrs. Holabird, for with her would come a breath of the world she had known
                        for two years, and which she had learned to love so well.
                    In three months seven men had asked her to marry them. Of the seven, one only
                        had the means or the prospect of means to support her. He was a
                        grass-widower with five grown children. Anderson took occasion to warn her
                        against widowers.
                    "Why," he said, "they're jest like widders. You know Dave Smith that runs the
                        tavern down street, don't you? Well, doggone ef he didn't turn in an' marry
                        a widder with seven childern an' a husband, an' he's led a dog's life ever
                        sence."
                    "Seven children and a husband? Daddy Crow!"
                    "Yep. Her derned husband wouldn't stay divorced when he found out Dave could
                        support a fambly as big as that. He figgered it would be jest as easy to
                        take keer of eight as seven, so he perlitely attached hisself to Dave's
                        kitchen an' started in to eat hisself to death. Dave was goin' to have his
                        wife apply fer another divorce an' leave the name blank, so's he could put
                        in either husband ef it came to a pinch, but  I
                        coaxed him out of it. He finally got rid of the feller by askin' him one day
                        to sweep out the office. He could eat all right, but it wasn't natural fer
                        him to work, so he skipped out. Next I heerd of him he had married a widder
                        who was gittin' a pension because her first husband fit fer his country. The
                        Government shet off the pension jest as soon as she got married ag'in, and
                        then that blamed cuss took in washin' fer her. He stayed away from home on
                        wash-days, but as every day was wash-day with her, he didn't see her by
                        daylight fer three years. She died, an' now he's back at Dave's ag'in. He
                        calls Dave his husband-in-law."
                    It required all of Anderson's social and official diplomacy to forestall an
                        indignation meeting when it was announced that a stranger, Miss Banks, had
                        been selected to teach school No. 5. There was some talk of mobbing the
                        township trustee and Board of County Commissioners, but Anderson secured the
                        names of the more virulent talkers and threatened to "jail" them for
                        conspiracy.
                    "Why, Anderson," almost wailed George Ray, "that girl's from the city. What
                        does she know about grammar an' history an' all that? They don't teach
                        anything but French an' Italian in the cities an' you know it."
                    "Pshaw!" sniffed Anderson. "I hate grammar an' always did. I c'n talk better
                        Italian than grammar right now, an' I hope Miss Banks will teach every child
                        in the district how to talk French. You'd orter hear Rosalie talk it.
                        Besides, Rosie says she's a nice 
                        
                            "SEPTEMBER BROUGHT ELSIE BANKS"
                        
                         girl an'an' needs the job." Anderson lied
                        bravely, but he swallowed twice in doing it.
                    September brought Elsie Banks to make life worth living for Rosalie. The two
                        girls were constantly together, talking over the old days and what the new
                        ones were to bring forth, especially for Miss Gray, who had resumed wood
                        carving as a temporary occupation. Miss Banks was more than ever reluctant
                        to discuss her own affairs, and Rosalie after a few trials was tactful
                        enough to respect her mute appeal. It is doubtful if either of the girls
                        mentioned the name of big, handsome Tom ReddonTom, who had rowed in his
                        college crew; but it is safe to say that both of them thought of him more
                        than once those long, soft, autumn nightsnights when Tinkletown's beaux were
                        fairly tumbling over themselves in the effort to make New York life seem
                        like a flimsy shadow in comparison.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XI
                    Elsie Banks
                    ANDERSON CROW stood afar offamong the bleak, leafless trees of Badger's
                        Groveand gazed thoughtfully, even earnestly, upon the little red schoolhouse
                        with its high brick chimney and snow-clad roof. A biting January wind cut
                        through his whiskers and warmed his nose to a half-broiled shade of red. On
                        the lapel of his overcoat glistened his social and official badges,
                        augmented by a new and particularly shiny emblem of respect bestowed by the
                        citizens of Tinkletown.
                    At first it had been the sense of the town to erect a monument in recognition
                        of his part in the capture of the Bramble County horse-thief gang, but a
                        thrifty and considerate committee of five substituted a fancy gold badge
                        with suitable inscriptions on both sides, extolling him to the skies "long
                        before he went there hisself" (to quote Uncle Gideon Luce, whose bump of
                        perception was a stubborn prophet when it came to picking out the site of
                        Mr. Crow's heaven). For a full half hour the marshal of Tinkletown had been
                        standing among the trees surveying the schoolhouse at the foot of the slope.
                        If his frosted cheeks and watery eyes ached for the warmth that urged the
                        curls of smoke to soar away from the chimney-top, his attitude did not
                        betray the fact. He was watching  and thinking,
                        and when Anderson thought of one thing he never thought of another at the
                        same time.
                    "It'll soon be recess time," he reflected. "Then I'll step down there an' let
                        on to be makin' a social call on the schoolma'am. By gum, I believe she's
                        the one! It'll take some tarnation good work to find out the truth about
                        her, but I guess I c'n do it all right. The only thing I got to guard
                        ag'inst is lettin' anybody else know of the mystery surroundin' her. Gosh!
                        it'll surprise some of the folks 'round here, 'specially Rosalie. An' mebby
                        the township trustee won't be sorry he give the school this year to a
                        strange girl instid o' to Jane Rankin er Effie Dickens! Congressman Ritchey
                        hadn't no business puttin' his nose into our affairs anyhow, no matter if
                        this here teacher is a friend of his fambly. He's got some kind a holt on
                        these here trustees'y gosh, I'd like to know what 'tis. He c'n jest wrap 'em
                        round his finger an' make 'em app'int anybody he likes. Must be politics.
                        There, it's recess! I'll jest light out an' pay the schoolhouse a little
                        visit."
                    Inside a capacious and official pocket of Mr. Crow's coat reposed a letter
                        from a law firm in Chicago. It asked if within the last two years a young
                        woman had applied for a position as teacher in the township schools at
                        Tinkletown. A description accompanied the inquiry, but it was admitted she
                        might have applied under a name not her own, which was Marion Lovering. In
                        explanation, the letter said she had left her home in Chicago without the
                        consent of her aunt, imbued with the idea that she would  sooner support herself than depend upon the
                        charity of that worthy though wealthy relative. The aunt had recently died,
                        and counsel for the estate was trying to establish proof concerning the
                        actions and whereabouts of Miss Lovering since her departure from
                        Chicago.
                    The young woman often had said she would become a teacher, a tutor, a
                        governess, or a companion, and it was known that she had made her way to
                        that section of the world presided over by Anderson Crowalthough the
                        distinguished lawyers did not put it in those words. A reward of five
                        hundred dollars for positive information concerning the "life of the girl"
                        while in "that or any other community" was promised.
                    Miss Banks's appointment came through the agency of the district's
                        congressman, in whose home she had acted as governess for a period.
                        Moreover, she answered the description in that she was young, pretty, and
                        refined. Anderson Crow felt that he was on the right track; he was now
                        engaged in as pretty a piece of detective business as had ever fallen to his
                        lot, and he was not going to spoil it by haste and over-confidence.
                    Just why Anderson Crow should "shadow" the schoolhouse instead of the
                        teacher's temporary place of abode no one could possibly have known but
                        him-selfand it is doubtful if he knew. He resolved not to
                        answer the Chicago letter until he was quite ready to produce the girl and
                        the proof desired.
                    "I'd be a gol-swiggled fool to put 'em onter my  s'picions an' then have 'em cheat me out of the reward," he reflected
                        keenly. "You cain't trust them Chicago lawyers an inch an' a half. Doggone
                        it, I'll never fergit that feller who got my pockit-book out to Central Park
                        that time. He tole me positively he was a lawyer from Chicago, an' had an
                        office in the Y. M. C. A. Building. An' the idee of him tellin' me he wanted
                        to see if my pockit-book had better leather in it than hisn!"
                    The fact that the school children, big and little, loved Miss Banks possessed
                        no point of influence over their elders of the feminine persuasion. They
                        turned up their Tinkletown noses and sniffed at her because she was a "vain
                        creature," who thought more of "attractin' the men than she did of anything
                        else on earth." And all this in spite of the fact that she was the intimate
                        friend of the town goddess, Rosalie Gray.
                    Everybody in school No. 5 over the age of seven was deeply, jealously in love
                        with Miss Banks. Many a frozen snowball did its deadly work from ambush
                        because of this impotent jealousy.
                    But the merriest rivalry was that which developed between Ed Higgins, the
                        Beau Brummel of Tinkle-town, and 'Rast Little, whose father owned the
                        biggest farm in Bramble County. If she was amused by the frantic efforts of
                        each suitor to outwit the other she was too tactful to display her emotion.
                        Perhaps she was more highly entertained by the manner in which Tinkletown
                        femininity paired its venom with masculine admiration.
                    "Mornin', Miss Banks," was Anderson's greeting 
                        as he stamped noisily into the room. He forgot that he had said good-morning
                        to her when she stopped in to see Rosalie on her way to the schoolhouse. The
                        children ceased their outdoor game and peered eagerly through the windows,
                        conscious that the visit of this dignitary was of supreme importance. Miss
                        Banks looked up from the papers she was correcting, the pucker vanishing
                        from her pretty brow as if by magic.
                    
                    "Good-morning, Mr. Crow. What are you doing away out here in the country?
                        Jimmy"to a small boy"please close the door." Anderson had left it open, and
                        it was a raw January wind which followed him into the room.
                    " 'Scuse me," he murmured. "Seems I ain't got sense enough to shet a door
                        even. My wife saysbut you don't keer to hear about that, do you? Oh, I jest
                        dropped in," finally answering her question. He took a bench near the big
                        stove and spread his hands before  the sheet -
                        iron warmth. "Lookin' up a little affair, that's all. Powerful chilly, ain't
                            it?"
                    
                    "Very." She stood on the opposite side of the stove, puzzled by this
                        unexpected visit, looking at him with undisguised curiosity.
                    "Ever been to Chicago?" asked Anderson suddenly, hoping to catch her
                        unawares.
                    "Oh, yes. I have lived there," she answered readily. He shifted his legs
                        twice and took a hasty pull at his whiskers.
                    "That's what I thought. Why don't you go back there?"
                    "Because I'm teaching school here, Mr. Crow."
                    "Well, I reckon that's a good excuse. I thought mebby you had a different
                        one."
                    "What do you mean?"
                    "Oh, I dunno. I jest asked."
                    "You are a detective, are you not?" asked Miss Banks, smiling brightly and
                        with understanding.
                    "Oh, off an' on I do a little detectin'. See my badge?"
                    
                    "Am I suspected of a heinous crime?" she asked so abruptly that he gasped.
                        "Won't you take off your cap, Mr. Crow?" He removed it sheepishly.
                    "Lord, no!" he exclaimed in confusion. "I mean the crimenot the cap. Well, I
                        guess I'll be goin'. School's goin' to take up, I reckon. See you later,
                        Miss Banks." He restored his cap to its accustomed place and was starting
                        toward the door, a trifle dazed and bewildered.
                    "What is it that you wish to find out, Mr. Crow?" she suddenly called to him.
                        He halted and faced about so quickly that his reply came like a shot out of
                        a gun.
                    "I'm on the lookout fer a girlan' she'll be 's rich 's Crowses if I c'n only
                        find 'er. I dassent tell 'er name jest now," he went on, slowly retracing
                        his steps, " 'cause I don't want peopleer her either, fer that matterto git
                        onter my scheme. But you jest wait." He was standing very close to her now
                        and looking her full in the face. "You're sure you don't know anythin' 'bout
                        her?"
                    "Why, how should I know? You've told me nothing."
                    "You've got purty good clothes fer a common school-teacher," he flung at her
                        in an aggressive, impertinent tone, but the warm colour that swiftly rose to
                        her cheeks forced him to recall his words, for he quickly tempered them
                        with, "Er, at least, that's what all the women folks say."
                    "Oh, so some one has been talking about my affairs? Some of your excellent
                        women want to know more about me than"
                    
                    "Don't git excited, Miss Banks," he interrupted; "the women ain't got
                        anythin' to do with itI mean, it's nothin' to them. I"
                    "Mr. Crow," she broke in, "if there is anything you or anybody in Tinkletown
                        wants to know about me you will have to deduce it for yourself. I believe
                        that is what you call itdeduce? And now good-bye, Mr. Crow. Recess is over,"
                        she said pointedly; and Mr. Crow shuffled out as the children galloped
                            in.
                    
                    That evening Ed Higgins and 'Rast Little came to call, but she excused
                        herself because of her correspondence. In her little upstairs room she wrote
                        letter after letter, one in particular being voluminous. Mrs. Holabird, as
                        she passed her door, distinctly heard her laugh aloud. It was a point to be
                        recalled afterward with no little consideration. Later she went downstairs,
                        cloaked warmly, for a walk to the post-office.
                    
                    Ed Higgins was still in the parlour talking to the family. He hastily put in
                        his petition to accompany her, and it was granted absently. Then he
                        surreptitiously and triumphantly glanced through the window, the scene
                        outside pleasing him audibly. 'Rast was standing at the front gate talking
                        to Anderson Crow. Miss Banks noticed as they passed the confused twain at
                        the gate that Anderson carried his dark lantern.
                    "Any trace of the heiress, Mr. Crow?" she asked merrily.
                    "Doggone it," muttered Anderson, "she'll give the whole snap away!"
                    "What's that?" asked 'Rast.
                    "Nothin' much," said Anderson, repairing the damage. "Ed's got your time beat
                        to-night, 'Rast, that's all!"
                    "I could 'a' took her out ridin' to-night if I'd wanted to," lied 'Rast
                        promptly. "I'm goin' to take her to the spellin'-bee to-morrow night out to
                        the school-house."
                    "Did she say she'd go with you?"
                    "Not yet. I was jest goin' to ast her to-night."
                    "Mebby Ed's askin' her now."
                    "Gosh dern it, that's so! Maybe he is," almost wailed 'Rast; and Anderson
                        felt sorry for him as he ambled away from the gate and its love-sick
                        guardian.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XII
                    The Spelling-Bee
                    YOUNG Mr. Higgins found his companion bubbling over with vivacity. Her pretty
                        chin was in the air and every word bore the promise of a laugh. He afterward
                        recalled one little incident of their walk through the frosty night, and
                        repeated it to Anderson Crow with more awe than seemed necessary. They were
                        passing the town pump on their way to the post-office. The street was dark
                        and deserted.
                    "Gosh!" said Ed, "I bet the town pump's froze up!"
                    "It doesn't seem very cold," she said brightly.
                    "Gee! it's below zero! I bet 'Rast thinks it's pretty doggone cold up there
                        by your gate."
                    "Poor 'Rast! His mother should keep him indoors on nights like this." Ed
                        laughed loud and long and a tingle of happiness shot through his erstwhile
                        shivering frame. "I'm not a bit cold," she went on. "Seefeel my hand. I'm
                        not even wearing mittens."
                    Ed Higgins gingerly clasped the little hand, but it was withdrawn at once. He
                        found it as warm as toast. Words of love surged to his humble lips; his
                        knees felt a tendency to lower themselves precipitously to the frozen
                        sidewalk; he was ready to grovel at her feetand he wondered if they were as
                        warm as toast. But 'Rast Little came up at that instant and the chance was
                        lost.
                    
                    "Doggone!" slipped unconsciously but bitterly from Ed's lips.
                    
                    "Can I be your company to the spellin'-bee tomorrow night, Miss Banks?" burst
                        unceremoniously from the lips of the newcomer.
                    "Thank you, 'Rast. I was just wondering how I should get out to the
                        schoolhouse. You are very kind. We'll go in the bob-sled with the
                        Holabirds."
                    "Doggone!" came in almost a wail from poor Ed. He could have killed 'Rast for
                        the triumphant laugh that followed.
                    In the meantime Anderson Crow was preparing to crawl in between the icy
                        sheets at home. Mrs Crow was "sitting up" with old Mrs. Luce, who was ill
                        next door.
                    "She's a girl with a past," reflected Anderson. "She's  a mystery, that's what she is; but I'll unravel her. She had a
                        mighty good reason fer sawin' me off out there to-day. I was gittin' too
                        close home. She seen I was about to corner her. By gum, I hope she don't
                        suspect nothin'! She's found out that Ed Higgins has a good job down to
                        Lamson's store, an' she's settin' her cap fer him. It shows she'd ruther
                        live in the city than in the countryso it's all up with 'Rast. That proves
                        she's from Chicago er some other big place. Ed's gettin' eight dollars a
                        week down there at Lamson's. By gum, that boy's doin' well! I used to think
                        he wouldn't amount to nothin'. It shows that the best of us git fooled in a
                        feller once in a while. To-morrow night I'll go out to the spellin'-match,
                        an' when the chanct comes I'll sidle up to her an' whisper her real name in
                        her ear. I bet four dollars an' a half that'll fetch her purty prompt.
                        Doggone, these here sheets air cold! It's forty below zero right here in
                        this bed."
                    Anderson Crow soon slept, but he did not dream of the tragedy the next night
                        was to bring upon Tinkle-town, nor of the test his prowess was to
                        endure.
                    The next night and the "spellin'-bee" at school No. 5 came on apace together.
                        It was bitterly cold and starlight. By eight o'clock the warm school-house
                        was comfortably filled with the "spellers" of the neighbourhood, their
                        numbers increased by competitors from Tinkletown itself. In the crowd were
                        men and women who time after time had "spelled down" whole companies, and
                        who were eager for the conflict. They had "studied up" on their spelling for
                             days in anticipation of a hard battle in
                        the words. Mrs. Borum and Mrs. Cartwill, both famous for their victories and
                        for the rivalry that existed between them, were selected as captains of the
                        opposing sides, and Miss Banks herself was to "give out" the words. The
                        captains selected their forces, choosing alternately from the anxious crowd
                        of grown folks. There were no children there, for it was understood that big
                        words would be given outwords children could not pronounce, much less
                        spell.
                    The teacher was amazingly pretty on this eventful night. She was dressed as
                        no other woman in Bramble County, except Rosalie Gray, could have attired
                        herselfsimply, tastefully, daintily. Her face was flushed and eager and the
                        joy of living glowed in every feature. Ed Higgins and 'Rast Little were
                        struck senseless, nerveless by this vision of health and loveliness.
                        Anderson Crow stealthily admitted to himself that she was a stranger in a
                        strange land; she was not of Tinkletown or any place like it.
                    Just as the captains were completing their selections of spellers the door
                        opened and three strangers entered the school-room, overcoated and furred to
                        the tips of their nosestwo men and a woman. As Miss Banks rushed forward to
                        greet themshe had evidently been expecting themthe startled assemblage
                        caught its breath and stared. To the further amazement of every one, Rosalie
                        hastened to her side and joined in the effusive welcome. Every word of
                        joyous greeting was heard by the amazed listeners and every word from the
                        strangers was as distinct. Surely 
                        
                            "THE TEACHER WAS AMAZINGLY PRETTY ON THIS EVENTFUL
                                    NIGHT"
                        
                         the newcomers were friends of long standing.
                        When their heavy wraps were removed the trio stood forth before as curious
                        an audience as ever sat spellbound. The men were young, well dressed and
                        handsome; the woman a beauty of the most dashing type. Tinkle-town's best
                        spellers quivered with excitement.
                    "Ladies and gentlemen," said Miss Banks, her voice trembling with eagerness,
                        "let me introduce my friends, Mrs. Farnsworth, Mr. Farnsworth, and Mr.
                        Reddon. They have driven over to attend the spelling-match." Ed Higgins and
                        'Rast Little observed with sinking hearts that it was Mr. Reddon whom she
                        led forward by the hand, and they cursed him inwardly for the look he gave
                        herbecause she blushed beneath it.
                    "You don't live in Boggs City," remarked Mr. Crow, appointing himself
                        spokesman. "I c'n deduce that, 'cause you're carrying satchels an'
                        valises."
                    "Mr. Crow is a famous detective," explained Miss Banks. Anderson attempted to
                        assume an unconscious pose, but in leaning back he missed the end of the
                        bench, and sat sprawling upon the lap of Mrs. Harbaugh. As Mrs. Harbaugh had
                        little or no lap to speak of, his downward course was diverted but not
                        stayed. He landed on the floor with a grunt that broke simultaneously with
                        the lady's squeak; a fraction of a second later a roar of laughter swept the
                        room. It was many minutes before quiet was restored and the "match" could be
                        opened. Mrs. Cartwill chose Mrs. Farnsworth and her rival selected the
                        husband of the dashing young woman. Mr. Reddon  firmly and significantly announced his determination to sit near the
                        teacher "to preserve order," and not enter the contest of words.
                    
                    Possibly it was the presence of the strangers that rattled and unnerved the
                        famed spellers of both sides, for it was not long until the lines had
                        dwindled to almost nothing. Three or four arrogant competitors stood forth
                        and valiantly spelled such words as "Popocatepetl," "Tschaikowsky,"
                        "terpsichorean," "Yangtse-Kiang," "Yseult," and scores of words that could
                        scarcely be pronounced by the teacher herself. But at last, just as the
                        sleepy watchers began to nod and yawn the hardest, Mrs. Cartwill stood alone
                        and victorious,  her single opponent having
                        gone down on the word "sassafras." Anderson Crow had "gone down" early in
                        the match by spelling "kerosene" "kerry-seen." Ed Higgins followed with
                        "ceriseen," and 'Rast Little explosively had it "coal-oil."
                    During the turmoil incident to the dispersing of the gathered hosts Miss
                        Banks made her way to 'Rast Little's side and informed him that the
                        Farnsworths were to take her to Mrs. Holabird's in their big sleigh. 'Rast
                        was floored. When he started to remonstrate, claiming to be her "company,"
                        big Tom Reddon interposed and drew Miss Banks away from her lover's
                        wrath.
                    "But I'm so sorry for him, Tom," she protested contritely. "He did bring me herein a way."
                    "Well, I'll take you home another way," said good-looking Mr. Reddon. It was
                        also noticed that Rosalie Gray had much of a confidential nature to say to
                        Miss Banks as they parted for the evening, she to go home in Blucher
                        Peabody's new sleigh.
                    'Rast and Ed Higgins almost came to blows out at the "hitch-rack," where the
                        latter began twitting his discomfited rival. Anderson Crow kept them
                        apart.
                    "I'll kill that big dude," growled 'Rast. "He's got no business comin' here
                        an' rakin' up trouble between me an' her. You mark my words, I'll fix him
                        before the night's over, doggone his hide!"
                    At least a dozen men, including Alf Reesling, heard this threat, and not one
                        of them was to forget it soon. Anderson Crow noticed that Mrs. Holabird's
                        bobsled drove away without either Miss Banks or 'Rast  Little in its capacious depths. Miss Banks announced that her
                        three friends from the city and she would stay behind and close the
                        schoolhouse, putting everything in order. It was Friday night, and there
                        would be no session until the following Monday. Mr. Crow was very sleepy for
                        a detective. He snored all the way home.
                    The next morning two farmers drove madly into Tinkletown with the astounding
                        news that some one had been murdered at schoolhouse No. 5. In passing the
                        place soon after daybreak they had noticed blood on the snow at the
                        roadside. The school-room door was half open and they entered. Blood in
                        great quantities smeared the floor near the stove, but there was no sign of
                        humanity, alive or dead. Miss Banks's handkerchief was found on the floor
                        saturated.
                    Moreover, the school-teacher was missing. She had not returned to the home of
                        Mrs. Holabird the night before. To make the horror all the more ghastly,
                        Anderson Crow, hastening to the schoolhouse, positively identified the blood
                        as that of Miss Banks.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIII
                    A Tinkletown Sensation
                    SENSATIONS came thick and fast in Tinkletown during the
                        next few hours. Investigation proved that 'Rast Little was nowhere to be
                        found. He had not returned to his home after the spelling-bee, nor had he
                        been seen since. Mrs. Holabird passed him in the road on her way home in the
                        "bob-sled." In response to her command to "climb in" he sullenly said he was
                        going to walk home by a "short cut" through the woods. A farmer had seen the
                        stylish Farnsworth sleigh driving north furiously at half-past eleven, the
                        occupants huddled in a bunch as if to protect themselves from the biting
                        air. The witness was not able to tell "which was which" in the sleigh, but
                        he added interest to the situation by solemnly asserting that one of the
                        persons in the rear seat was "bundled up" more than the rest, and evidently
                        was unable to sit erect.
                    According to his tale, the figure was lying over against the other occupant
                        of the seat. He was also positive that there were three figures in the front
                        seat! Who was the extra person? was the question that flashed into the minds
                        of the listeners. A small boy came to the schoolhouse at nine o'clock in the
                        morning with 'Rast Little's new derby hat. He had picked it up at the
                        roadside not far from the schoolhouse and in the direction taken by the
                        Farnsworth party.
                    
                    Anderson gave orders that no word of the catastrophe be carried to Rosalie,
                        who was reported to be ill of a fever the next morning after the
                        spelling-bee. She had a cough, and the doctor had said that nothing should
                        be said or done to excite her.
                    
                    The crowd at the schoolhouse grew larger as the morning passed Every-body
                        talked in whispers; everybody was mystified beyond belief. All eyes were
                        turned to Anderson Crow, who stood aloof, pondering as he had never pondered
                        before. In one hand he held Miss Banks's bloody handkerchief and in the
                        other a common school text-book on physiology. His  badges and stars fairly revelled in their own importance.
                    "Don't pester him with questions," warned Isaac Porter, addressing Alf
                        Reesling, the town drunkard, who had just arrived.
                    "But I got something I want to say to him," persisted Alf eagerly. Two or
                        three strong men restrained him.
                    "Thunderation, Alf," whispered Elon Jones, "cain't you see he's figurin'
                        something out? You're liable to throw him clear off the track if you say a
                        word to him."
                    "Well, this is something he'd oughter know," almost whimpered Alf, rubbing
                        his frozen ears.
                    "Sh!" muttered the bystanders, and poor Alf subsided. He was unceremoniously
                        hustled into the background as Mr. Crow moved from the window toward the
                        group.
                    "Gentlemen," said Anderson gravely, "there is somethin' wrong here." It is
                        barely possible that this was not news to the crowd, but with one accord
                        they collectively and severally exchanged looks of appreciation. "I've been
                        readin' up a bit on the human body, an' I've proved one thing sure in my own
                        mind."
                    "You bet you have, Anderson," said Elon Jones. "It's all settled. Let's go
                        home."
                    "Settled nothin'!" said the marshal. "It's jest begun. Here's what I deduce:
                        Miss Banks has been foully dealt with. Ain't this her blood, an' ain't she
                        used her own individual handkerchief to stop it up?
                    
                    It's blood right square from her heart, gentlemen!"
                    "I don't see how" began Ed Higgins; but Anderson silenced him with a
                        look.
                    "Of course you don't, but you would if you'd 'a' been a
                        detective as long 's I have. What in thunder do you s'pose I got these
                        badges and these medals fer? Fer not seein' how? No,
                        siree! I got 'em fer seein' how; that's what!"
                    "But, Andy"
                    "Don't call me 'Andy,' " commanded Mr. Crow.
                    "Well, then, Anderson, I'd like to know how the dickens she could use her own
                        handkerchief if she was stabbed to the heart," protested Ed. He had been
                        crying half the time. Anderson was stunned for the moment.
                    "Whywhynow, look here, Ed Higgins, I ain't got time to explain things to a
                        derned idgit like you. Everybody else understands how,
                        don't you?" and he turned to the crowd. Everybody said yes. "Well, that
                        shows what a fool you are, Ed. Don't bother me any more. I've got work to
                        do."
                    "Say, Anderson," began Alf Reesling from the outer circle, "I got something
                        important to tell"
                    "Who is that? Alf Reesling?" cried Anderson wrathfully.
                    "Yes; I want to see you private, Anderson. It's important," begged Alf.
                    "How many times have I got to set down on you, Alf Reesling?" exploded
                        Anderson. "Doggone, I'd like to know how a man's to solve mysteries if he's
                             got to stand around half the time an'
                        listen to fambly quarrels. Tell yer wife I'll"
                    "This ain't no family quarrel. Besides, I ain't got no wife. It's about this
                        here"
                    "That'll do, now, Alf! Not another word out of you!" commanded Anderson
                        direfully.
                    "But, dern you, Anderson," exploded Alf, "I've got to tell you"
                    But Anderson held up a hand.
                    "Don't swear in the presence of the dead," he said solemnly. "You're drunk,
                        Alf; go home!" And Alf, news and all was hustled from the schoolhouse by a
                        self-appointed committee of ten.
                    "Now, we'll search fer the body," announced Anderson. "Git out of the way,
                        Bud!"
                    "I ain't standin' on it," protested twelve-year-old Bud Long.
                    "Well, you're standin' mighty near them bloodstains an'"
                    "Yes, 'n ain't blood a part of the body?" rasped Isaac Porter scornfully;
                        whereupon Bud faded into the outer rim.
                    "First we'll look down cellar," said Mr. Crow. "Where's the cellar at?"
                    "There ain't none," replied Elon Jones.
                    "What? No cellar? Well, where in thunder did they hide the body, then?"
                    "There's an attic," ventured Joe Perkins.
                    A searching party headed by Anderson Crow shinned up the ladder to the low
                        garret. No trace of a body was to be found, and the searchers came  down rather thankfully. Then, under Mr.
                        Crow's direction, they searched the wood piles, the woods, and the fields
                        for many rods in all directions. At noon they congregated at the
                        schoolhouse. Alf Reesling was there.
                    "Find it?" said he thickly, with a cunning leer. He had been drinking.
                        Anderson was tempted to club him half to death, but instead he sent him home
                        with Joe Perkins, refusing absolutely to hear what the town drunkard had to
                        say.
                    "Well, you'll wish you'd listened to me," ominously hiccoughed Alf; and then,
                        as a parting shot, "I wouldn't tell you now fer eighteen dollars cash. You
                        c'n go to thunder!" It was lse majest, but the crowd did
                        nothing worse than stare at the offender.
                    Before starting off on the trail of the big sleigh, Anderson sent this
                        message by wire to the lawyers in Chicago:
                    "I have found the girl you want, but the body is lost. Would you
                            just as soon have her dead as alive?
                    "ANDERSON CROW."
                    In a big bob-sled the marshal and a picked sextette of men set off at one
                        o'clock on the road over which the sleigh had travelled many hours before.
                        Anderson had failed to report the suspected crime to the sheriff at Boggs
                        City and was working alone on the mystery. He said he did not want anybody
                        from town interfering with his affairs.
                    "Say, AndyAnderson," said Harry Squires, now 
                        editor of the Banner, "maybe we're hunting the wrong body
                        and the wrong people."
                    "What do you mean?"
                    "Well, ain't 'Rast Little missing? Maybe he's been killed, eh? And say, ain't
                        there some chance that he did the killing? Didn't he say he was going to
                        murder that city chap? Well, supposing he did. We're on the wrong track,
                        ain't we?"
                    "Doggone you, Harry, that don't fit in with my deductions," wailed Anderson.
                        "I wish you'd let me alone. 'Rast may have done the killin', but it's our
                        place to find the body, ain't it? Whoever has been slew was taken away last
                        night in the sleigh. S'posin it was Mr. Reddon! Well, consarn it, ain't he
                        got a body same as anybody else? We've just got to find somebody's body,
                        that's all. We've got to prove the corpus deelicti. Drive up, Bill!"
                    With a perseverance that spoke well for the detective's endurance, but ill
                        for his intelligence, the "bob" sped along aimlessly. It was ridiculous to
                        think of tracking a sleigh over a well-travelled road, and it was not until
                        they reached the cross-roads that Harry Squires suggested that inquiries be
                        made of the farmers in the neighbourhood. After diligent effort, a farmer
                        was discovered who said he had heard the sleigh bells at midnight, and,
                        peering from his window, had caught a glimpse of the party turning south at
                        the cross-roads.
                    "Jest as I thought!" exclaimed Anderson. "They went south so 's to skip Boggs
                        City. Boys, they've got her body er 'Rast's body er that other feller's body
                             with 'em, an' they're skootin' down this
                        pike so's to get to the big bridge. My idee is that they allowed to drop the
                        body in the river, which ain't friz plum over."
                    "Gee! We ain't expected to search all over the bottom of the river, are we,
                        Anderson?" shivered Isaac Porter, the pump repairer.
                    "I ain't," said the leader, "but I can deputise anybody I
                        want to."
                    And so they hurried on to the six-span bridge that crossed the ice-laden
                        river. As they stood silent, awed and shivering on the middle span, staring
                        down into the black water with its navy of swirling ice-chunks, even the
                        heart of Anderson Crow chilled and grew faint.
                    "Boys," he said, "we've lost the track! Not even a bloodhound could track 'em
                        in that water."
                    "Bloodhound?" sniffed Harry Squires. "A hippopotamus, you mean."
                    They were hungry and cold, and they were ready to turn homeward. Anderson
                        said he "guessed" he'd turn the job over to the sheriff and his men.
                        Plainly, he was much too hungry to do any more trailing. Besides, for more
                        than an hour he had been thinking of the warm wood fire at home. Bill Rubley
                        was putting the "gad" to the horses when a man on horseback rode up from the
                        opposite end of the bridge. He had come far and in a hurry, and he
                        recognised Anderson Crow.
                    "Say, Anderson!" he called, "somebody broke into Colonel Randall's summer
                        home last night an' they're  there yet. Got
                        fires goin' in all the stoves, an' havin' a high old time. They ain't got no
                        business there, becuz the place is closed fer the winter. Aleck Bur-bank
                        went over to order 'em out; one of the fellers said he'd bust his head if he
                        didn't clear out. I think it's a gang!"
                    A hurried interview brought out the facts. The invaders had come up in a big
                        sleigh long before dawn, andbut that was sufficient. Anderson and his men
                        returned to the hunt, eager and sure of their prey. Darkness was upon them
                        when they came in sight of Colonel Randall's country place in the hills.
                        There were lights in the windows and people were making merry indoors; while
                        outside the pursuing Nemesis and his men were wondering how and where to
                        assault the stronghold.
                    "I'll jest walk up an' rap on the door," said Anderson Crow, "lettin' on to
                        be a tramp. I'll ast fer somethin' to eat an' a place to sleep. While I'm
                        out there in the kitchen eatin' you fellers c'n sneak up an' surround us.
                        Then you c'n let on like you're lookin' fer me because I'd robbed a
                        hen-roost er something, an' that'll get 'em off their guard. Once we all git
                        inside the house with these shotguns we've got 'em where we want 'em. Then
                        I'll make 'em purduce the body."
                    "Don't we git anythin' to eat, too?" demanded Isaac Porter faintly.
                    "The horses ain't had nothin' to eat, Ike," said Anderson. "Ain't you as good
                        as a horse?"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIV
                    A Case of Mistaken Identity
                    DETECTIVE CROW found little difficulty in gaining admittance to Colonel
                        Randall's summer home. He had secreted his badge, and it was indeed a
                        sorry-looking tramp who asked for a bite to eat at the kitchen door.
                    Three or four young women were busy with chafing dishes in this department of
                        the house, and some good-looking young men were looking on and bothering
                        them with attentions. In the front part of the house a score of people were
                        laughing and making merry.
                    "Gosh!" said the new tramp, twisting his chin whiskers, "how many of you are
                        there?"
                    "Oh, there are many more at home like us," trilled out one of the young women
                        gaily. "You're just in time, you poor old thing, to have some of the
                        bride-to-be's cake."
                    "I guess I'm in the wrong house," murmured Anderson blankly. "Is it a
                        weddin'?"
                    "No; but there will be one before many days. It's just a reunion. How I wish
                        Rosalie Gray were here!" cried another girl.
                    Just then there was a pounding on the door, and an instant later Isaac Porter
                        stalked in at the head of the posse.
                    
                    "Throw up your hands!" called Anderson, addressing himself to the posse, the
                        members of which stopped in blank amazement. Some of them obligingly stuck
                        their hands on high. "What do you want here?"
                    "Wewewe're lookin' fer a tramp who said he robbed a hen roost," faltered
                        Isaac Porter.
                    "What is the meaning of all this?" called a strong voice from the
                        dining-room, and the flabbergasted Tinkletownians turned to face Colonel
                        Randall himself, the owner of the house.
                    "Derned if I know!" muttered Anderson Crow; and he spoke the truth.
                    "Why, it's Anderson Crow!" cried a gay young voice.
                    "Jumpin' Jehosophat!" ejaculated the detective; "it's the body!"
                    "The school-teacher!" exclaimed the surprised Tinkletownians, as with their
                        eyes they proceeded to search the figure before them for blood stains. But
                        no sooner had the chorused words escaped their lips than they realised how
                        wretchedly commonplace was their blundering expression in comparison with
                        the faultlessly professional phraseology of their leader; and, overwhelmed
                        with mortification, the posse ached to recall them; for that the correct
                        technical term had been applied by one for years trained to the vernacular
                        of his calling was little consolation to these sensitive souls, now consumed
                        with envy.
                    In the meantime, the quarry, if we may be permitted so to designate her,
                        stood before them as pretty as  a picture. At
                        her side was Tom Reddon, and a dozen guests of the house fell in behind
                        them.
                    "Did Rosalie tell you?" demanded Miss Banks. "The mean thing! She said she
                        wouldn't."
                    "RoRosalie!" gasped Anderson; "tell me what?" nervously.
                    "That I waswas coming over here with Tom. Didn't she tell you?"
                    "I should say not. If she'd told me you don't suppose I'd 'a' driv' clear
                        over here in this kinder weather fer nothin', do you? Thunder! Did she know
                        'bout it?"
                    "Certainly, Mr. Crow. She helped with the plans."
                    "Well, good gosh a'mighty! An' we was a-keepin' from her the awful news fer
                        fear 'twould give her a backset."
                    "Awful news! What do you mean? Oh, you frighten me terribly!"
                    "Doggone! I don't believe Rosalie was sick at all," continued Anderson, quite
                        regardless of the impatience of his listeners; "she jest wanted to keep from
                        answerin' questions. She jest regularly let everybody believe you had been
                        slaughtered, an' never opened her mouth."
                    "Slaughtered!" cried half a dozen people.
                    "Sure! Hain't you heard 'bout the murder?"
                    "Murder?" apprehensively from the excited New Yorkers.
                    "Yesthe teacher of schoolhouse No. 5 was brutally butchered
                        laslasnightby"
                    "Go slow, Anderson! Better hold your horses!" 
                        
                            "'WHAT IS THE MEANING OF ALL THIS?"
                        
                         cautioned Harry Squires. "Don't forget the
                        body's alive and kic" and stopping short, in the hope that his break might
                        escape the school-teacher's attention, he confusedly substituted, "and
                        here."
                    Anderson's jaw dropped, but the movement was barely perceptible, the
                        discomfiture temporary, for to the analytical mind of the great detective
                        the fact that a murder had been committed was fully established by the
                        discovery of the blood. That a body was obviously necessary for the
                        continuance of further investigations he frankly acknowledged to himself;
                        and not for one instant would any supposition or explanation other than
                        assassination be tolerated. And it was with unshaken conviction that he
                        declared:
                    "Well, somebody was slew, wasn't they? That's as plain 's the nose on y'r
                        face. Don't you contradict me, Harry Squires. I guess Anderson Crow knows
                        blood when he sees it."
                    "Do you mean to tell me that you've been trailing us all day in the belief
                        that some one of us had killed somebody?" demanded Tom Reddon.
                    Harry Squires explained the situation, Anderson being too far gone to step
                        into the breach. It may be of interest to say that the Tinkletown detective
                        was the sensation of the hour. The crowd, merry once more, lauded him to the
                        skies for the manner in which the supposed culprits had been trailed, and
                        the marshal's pomposity grew almost to the bursting point.
                    "But how about that blood?" he demanded.
                    "Yes," said Harry Squires with a sly grin, "it was positively identified as
                        yours, Miss Banks."
                    
                    "Well, it's the first time I was ever fooled," confessed Anderson glibly.
                        "I'll have to admit it. The blood really belonged to 'Rast Little. Boys, the
                        seegars are on me."
                    "No, they're on me," exclaimed Tom Reddon, producing a box of Perfectos.
                    "But, Miss Banks, you are wanted in Chicago," insisted Anderson. Reddon
                        interrupted him.
                    "Right you are, my dear Sherlock, and I'm going to take her there as soon as
                        I can. It's what I came East for."
                    "Ain'tI mean, wasn't you Miss Lovering?" muttered Anderson Crow.
                    "Good heavens, no!" cried Miss Banks. "Who is shea shoplifter?"
                    "I'll tell you the story, Mr. Crow, if you'll come with me," said Mr.
                        Farnsworth, stepping forward with a wink.
                    In the library he told the Tinkletown posse that Tom Reddon had met Miss
                        Banks while she was at school in New York. He was a Chicago millionaire's
                        son and she was the daughter of wealthy New York people. Her mother was
                        eager to have the young people marry, but the girl at that time imagined
                        herself to be in love with another man. In a pique she left school and set
                        forth to earn her own living. A year's hardship as governess in the family
                        of Congressman Ritchey and subsequent disillusionment as a country
                        school-teacher brought her to her senses and she realised that she cared for
                        Tom Reddon after all. She and Miss Gray together prepared the letter  which told Reddon where she could be found,
                        and that eager young gentleman did the rest. He had been waiting for months
                        for just such a message from her. The night of the spelling-match he induced
                        her to come to Colonel Randall's, and now the whole house-party, including
                        Miss Banks, was to leave on the following day for New York. The marriage
                        would take place in a very few weeks.
                    "I'll accept your explanation," said Mr. Crow composedly as he took a handful
                        of cigars. "Well, I guess I'll be startin' back. It's gettin' kind o'
                        late-like."
                    There was a telegram at the livery stable for him when he reached that haven
                        of warmth and rest in Tinkletown about dawn the next day. It was from
                        Chicago and marked "Charges collect."
                    "What girl and whose body," it said, "do you refer to? Miss Lovering has been
                        dead two years, and we are settling the estate in behalf of the other heirs.
                        We were trying to establish her place of residence. Never mind the body you
                        have lost."
                    "Doggone," said Anderson, chuckling aloud, "that was an awful good joke on
                        'Rast, wasn't it?"
                    The stablemen stood around and looked at him with jaws that were drooping
                        helplessly. The air seemed laden with a sombre uncertainty that had not yet
                        succeeded in penetrating the nature of Marshal Crow.
                    "Is it from her?" finally asked Ike Smith hoarsely, his lips trembling.
                    "From what her?"
                    
                    "Rosalie."
                    "Thunder, no! It's from my lawyers in Chicago."
                    "Ain't youain't you heerd about it?" half groaned Ike, moving away as if he
                        expected something calamitous.
                    "What the dickens are you fellers drivin' at?" demanded Anderson. The
                        remainder of his posse deserted the red-hot stove and drew near with the
                        instinctive feeling that something dreadful had happened.
                    "RoRosalie has been missin' sence early last night. She was grabbed by some
                        feller near Mrs. Luce's, chucked into a big wagon an' rushed out of town
                        before Ros Crow could let out a yell. Clean stole herlook out! Ketch him,
                        Joe!"
                    Anderson dropped limply into a hostler's arms.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XV
                    Rosalie Disappears
                    THINGS had happened in Tinkletown that night. Alf Reesling
                        finally found some one who would listen to his story. He told the minister
                        and the minister alarmed the town. To be brief, Alf admitted that 'Rast
                        Little was at his house in the outskirts of the village, laid up with a
                        broken arm and a bad cut in the top of his head.
                    "He came crawlin' up to my place about six o'clock in the mornin'," explained
                        Alf, "an' I took the poor cuss in. That's what I wanted to tell Anderson,
                        but the old rip wouldn't listen to me. Seems as though 'Rast waited around
                        the schoolhouse last night to git a crack at that feller from town. Miss
                        Banks and her three friends set around the stove in the school-house for
                        about an hour after the crowd left, an' 'Rast got so cold he liked to died
                        out there in the woodshed.
                    "Purty soon they all come out, an' 'Rast cut acrost the lot to git inside the
                        house by the fire. He was so derned cold that he didn't feel like crackin'
                        anybody. When they wasn't lookin' he sneaked inside. Jest as he was gittin'
                        ready to hug the stove he heard Miss Banks an' one of the men comin' back.
                        He shinned up the ladder into the garret just in time. In they come an' the
                        feller lit a lamp. 'Rast could hear 'em talkin'. She said good-bye to the
                        schoolhouse forever,  an' the feller kissed
                        her a couple of times. 'Rast pretty nigh swore out loud at that. Then she
                        said she'd leave a note in her desk fer the trustees, resignin' her job, er
                        whatever she called it. He heard her read the note to the man, an' it said
                        somethin' about goin' away unexpected to git married. 'Rast says ef Anderson
                        had looked in the desk he'd have found the note.
                    
                    "Then she packed up some books an' her an' the feller went out. 'Rast was
                        paralysed. He heerd the sleigh-bells jingle an' then he come to. He started
                        down the ladder so quick that he missed his hold and went kerslam clear to
                        the bottom. Doggone ef he didn't light on his head, too. He don't know how
                        long he laid there, but finally he was resurrected enough to crawl over by
                        the stove.  His arm was broke an' he was
                        bleedin' like a stuck hog. Miss Banks had left her handkerchief on the desk,
                        an' he says he tried to bind up his head with it, but it was too infernal
                        small. Somehow he got outside an' wandered around half crazy fer a long
                        time, finally pullin' up at my house, derned nigh froze to death an' so weak
                        he couldn't walk no more. He'd lost his hat an' his ear muffs an' his way
                        all at the same time. If Anderson had let me talk this mornin' he'd 'a'
                        knowed there wasn't no murder. It was just a match."
                    Hours passed before Anderson was himself again and able to comprehend the
                        details of the story which involved the disappearance of his ward. It slowly
                        filtered through his mind as he sat stark-eyed and numb before the kitchen
                        fire that this was the means her mysterious people had taken to remove her
                        from his custody. The twenty years had expired, and they had come to claim
                        their own. There was gloom in the home of Anderson Crowgloom so dense that
                        death would have seemed bright in comparison. Mrs. Crow was prostrated,
                        Anderson in a state of mental and physical collapse, the children
                        hysterical.
                    All Tinkletown stood close and ministered dumbly to the misery of the
                        bereaved ones, but made no effort to follow or frustrate the abductors. The
                        town seemed as helpless as the marshal, not willingly or wittingly, but
                        because it had so long known him as leader that no one possessed the
                        temerity to step into his place, even in an hour of emergency.
                    A dull state of paralysis fell upon the citizens, big  and little. It was as if universal palsy had been ordained to
                        pinch the limbs and brains of Tinkletown until the hour came for the
                        rehabilitation of Anderson Crow himself. No one suggested a move in any
                        directionin fact, no one felt like moving at all. Everything stood
                        stockstill while Anderson slowly pulled himself together; everything waited
                        dumbly for its own comatose condition to be dispelled by the man who had
                        been hit the hardest.
                    It was not until late in the afternoon that Blucher Peabody, the druggist,
                        awoke from his lethargy and moved as though he intended to take the
                        initiative. "Blootch" was Rosalie's most persistent admirer. He had fallen
                        heir to his father's apothecary shop and notion store, and he was regarded
                        as one of the best catches in town. He approached the half-frozen crowd that
                        huddled near old Mrs. Luce's front gate. In this crowd were some of the
                        prominent men of the town, young and old; they left their places of business
                        every half hour or so and wandered aimlessly to the now historic spot, as if
                        drawn by a magnet. Just why they congregated there no one could explain and
                        no one attempted to do so. Presumably it was because the whole town centred
                        its mind on one of two placesthe spot where Rosalie was seized or the home
                        of Anderson Crow. When they were not at Mrs. Luce's gate they were tramping
                        through Anderson's front yard and into his house.
                    "Say," said "Blootch" so loudly that the crowd felt like remonstrating with
                        him, "what's the use of all this?"
                    
                    No one responded. No one was equal to it on such short notice.
                    
                    "We've got to do something besides stand around and whisper," he said. "We've
                        got to find Rosalie Gray."
                    "But good gosh!" ejaculated Isaac Porter, "they've got purty nigh a day's
                        start of us."
                    "Well, that don't matter. Anderson would do as much for us. Let's get a move
                        on."
                    "But where in thunder will we hunt?" murmured George Ray.
                    "To the end of the earth," announced Blootch, inflating his chest and
                        slapping it violently, a strangely personal proceeding, which went
                        unnoticed. He had reached the conclusion that his chance to be a hero was at
                        hand and not to be despised. Here was the opportunity to outstrip all of his
                        competitors in the race for Rosalie's favour. It might be confessed that,
                        with all his good intentions, his plans were hopelessly vague. The group
                        braced up a little at the sound of his heroic words.
                    "But the derned thing's round," was the only thing Ed Higgins could find to
                        say. Ed, as fickle as the  wind, was once more
                        deeply in love with Rosalie, having switched from Miss Banks immediately
                        after the visit to Colonel Randall's.
                    "Aw, you go to Guinea!" was Blootch's insulting reply. Nothing could be more
                        disparaging than that, but Ed failed to retaliate. "Let's appoint a
                        committee to wait on Anderson and find out what he thinks we'd better
                        do."
                    "But Anderson ain't" began some one. Blootch calmly waived him into
                        silence.
                    "What he wants is encouragement, and not a lot of soup and broth and
                        lemonade. He ain't sick. He's as able-bodied as I am. Every woman in town
                        took soup to him this noon. He needs a good stiff drink of whiskey and a
                        committee to cheer him up. I took a bottle up to 'Rast Little last night and
                        he acted like another man."
                    At last it was decided that a committee should first wait on Anderson,
                        ascertaining his wishes in the premises, and then proceed to get at the
                        bottom of the mystery. In forming this committee the wise men of the town
                        ignored Mr. Peabody, and he might have been left off completely had he not
                        stepped in and appointed himself chairman.
                    The five good men and true descended upon the marshal late in the afternoon,
                        half fearful of the result, but resolute. They found him slowly emerging
                        from his spell of lassitude. He greeted them with a solemn nod of the head.
                        Since early morning he had been conscious of a long stream of sympathisers
                        passing through the house, but it was not until now  that he felt equal to the task of recognising any of them.
                    His son Roscoe had just finished telling him the story of the abduction.
                        Roscoe's awestruck tones and reddened eyes carried great weight with them,
                        and for the tenth time that day he had his sisters in tears. With each
                        succeeding repetition the details grew until at last there was but little of
                        the original event remaining, a fact which his own family properly
                        overlooked.
                    "Gentlemen," said Anderson, as if suddenly coming from a trance, "this wasn't
                        the work of Tinkletown desperadoes." Whereupon the committee felt mightily
                        relieved. The marshal displayed signs of a returning energy that augured
                        well for the enterprise. After the chairman had impressively announced that
                        something must be done, and that he was willing to lead his little band to
                        death's doorand beyond, if necessaryMr. Crow pathetically upset all their
                        hopes by saying that he had long been expecting such a calamity, and that
                        nothing could be done.
                    "They took the very night when I was not here to pertect her," he lamented.
                        "It shows that they been a-watchin' me all along. The job was did by persons
                        who was in the employ of her family, an' she has been carried off secretly
                        to keep me from findin' out who and what her parents were. Don't ye see? Her
                        motherer father, fer that mattercouldn't afford to come right out plain an'
                        say they wanted their child after all these years. The only way was to take
                        her away without givin' themselves away. It's 
                        been the plan all along. There ain't no use huntin' fer her, gentlemen.
                        She's in New York by this time, an' maybe she's ready fer a trip to
                        Europe."
                    "But I should think she'd telegraph to you," said Blootch.
                    "Telegraph yer granny! Do you s'pose they'd 'a' stole her if they intended to
                        let her telegraph to anybody? Not much. They're spiritin' her away until her
                        estate's settled. After a while it will all come out, an' you'll see if I
                        ain't right. But she's gone. They've got her away from me an'an' we got to
                        stand it, that's all. IIcain't bear to think about it. It's broke my heart
                        mighty nenear. Don't mind me ifIcry, boys. You would, too, if you was
                        me."
                    As the committee departed soon after without any plan of action arising from
                        the interview with the dejected marshal, it may be well to acquaint the
                        reader with the history of the abduction, as told by Roscoe Crow and his
                        bosom friend, Bud Long, thoroughly expurgated.
                    According to instructions, no one in the Crow family mentioned the strange
                        disappearance of Elsie Banks to Rosalie. Nor was she told of the pursuit by
                        the marshal and his posse. The girl, far from being afflicted with a fever,
                        really now kept in her room by grief over the departure of her friend and
                        companion. She was in tears all that night and the next day, suffering
                        intensely in her loss. Rosalie did not know that the teacher was to leave
                        Tinkletown surreptitiously until after the spelling-bee. The sly, blushing
                             announcement came as a shock, but she was
                        loyal to her friend, and not a word in exposure escaped from her lips. Of
                        course, she knew nothing of the sensational developments that followed the
                        uncalled-for flight of Elsie Banks.
                    Shortly after the supper dishes had been cleared away Rosalie came downstairs
                        and announced that she was going over to read to old Mrs. Luce, who was
                        bedridden. Her guardian's absence was not explained to her, and she did not
                        in the least suspect that he had been away all day on a fool's errand.
                        Roscoe and Bud accompanied her to Mrs. Luce's front door, heavily bound by
                        promises to hold their tongues regarding Miss Banks.
                    
                    "We left her there at old Mis' Luce's," related Roscoe, "an' then went over
                        to Robertson's Pond to skate. She tole us to stop in fer her about nine  o'clock, didn't she, Bud? Er was it eight?"
                        He saw the necessity for accuracy.
                    "Ten," corrected Bud deliberately.
                    "Well, pop, we stopped fer her, an'an'"
                    "Stop yer blubberin', Roscoe," commanded Anderson as harshly as he could.
                    "An' got her," concluded Roscoe. "She put on her shawl an' mittens an' said
                        she'd run us a race all the way home. We all got ready to start right in
                        front of old Mis' Luce's gate. Bud he stopped an' said, 'Here comes Tony
                        Brink.' We all looked around, an' sure enough, a heavy-set feller was comin'
                        to'rds us. It looked like Tony, but when he got up to us I see it wasn't
                        him. He ast us if we could tell him where Mr. Crow lived"
                    "He must 'a' been a stranger," deduced Anderson mechanically.
                    "an' Bud said you lived right on ahead where the street lamps was. Jest then
                        a big sleigh turned out of the lane back of Mis' Luce's an' drove up to
                        where we was standin'. Bud was standin' jest like thisme here an' Rosalie a
                        little off to one side. S'posin' this chair was her an'"
                    "Yesyes, go on," from Anderson.
                    "The sleigh stopped, and there was two fellers in it. There was two seats,
                        too."
                    "Front and back?"
                    "Yes, sir."
                    "I understand. It was a double-seated one," again deduced the marshal.
                    "An' nen, by gum, 'fore we could say Jack Robinson,  one of the fellers jumped out an' grabbed Rosalie. The feller
                        on the groun', he up an' hit me a clip in the ear. I fell down, an' so did
                        Bud"
                    "He hit me on top of the head," corrected Bud sourly.
                    "I heerd Rosalie start to scream, but the next minute they had a blanket over
                        her head an' she was chucked into the back seat. It was all over in a
                        second. I got up, but 'fore I could run a feller yelled, 'Ketch him!' An'
                        another feller did. 'Don't let 'em get away,' said the driver in low,
                        hissin' tones"
                    "Regular villains," vowed Anderson.
                    "Yes, sir. 'Don't let 'em git away er they'll rouse the town.' 'What'll we do
                        with 'em?' asked the feller who held both of us. 'Kill 'em?' Gosh, I was
                        skeered. Neither one of us could yell, 'cause he had us by the neck, an' he
                        was powerful strong. 'Chuck 'em in here an' I'll tend to 'em,' said the
                        driver. Next thing we knowed we was in the front of the sleigh, an' the
                        whole outfit was off like a runaway. They said they'd kill us if we made a
                        noise, an' we didn't. I wish I'd 'a' had my rifle, doggone it! I'd 'a'
                        showed 'em."
                    "They drove like thunder out to'rds Boggs City fer about two mile," said Bud,
                        who had been silent as long as human nature would permit. "'Nen they stopped
                        an' throwed us out in the road. 'Go home, you devils, an' don't you tell
                        anybody about us er I'll come back here some day an' give you a kick in the
                        slats.'"
                    "Slats?" murmured Anderson.
                    
                    "That's short fer ribs," explained Bud loftily.
                    "Well, why couldn't he have said short ribs an' been done with it?"
                        complained Anderson.
                    "Then they whipped up an' turned off west in the pike," resumed Bud. "We run
                        all the way home an' tole Mr. Lamson, an' he"
                    "Where was Rosalie all this time?" asked Anderson.
                    "Layin' in the back seat covered with a blanket, jest the same as if she was
                        dead. I heerd 'em say some-thin' about chloroformin' her. What does
                        chloroform smell like, Mr. Crow?"
                    "Jest like any medicine. It has drugs in it. They use it to pull teeth. Well,
                        what then?"
                    "Well," interposed Roscoe, "Mr. Lamson gave the alarm, an' nearly ever'body
                        in town got out o' bed. They telegraphed to Boggs City an' all around, but
                        it didn't seem to do no good. Them horses went faster'n telegraphs."
                    "Did you ever see them fellers before?"
                    "No, sir; but I think I'd know 'em with their masks off."
                    "Was they masked?"
                    "Their faces were."
                    "Oh, my poor little Rosalie!" sobbed old Anderson hopelessly.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVI
                    The Haunted House
                    DAYS passed without word or sign from the missing girl.
                        The marshal haunted the post-office and the railroad station, hoping with
                        all his poor old heart that word would come from her; but the letter was not
                        there, nor was there a telegram at the station when he strolled over to that
                        place. The county officials at Boggs City came down and began a cursory
                        investigation, but Anderson's emphatic though doleful opinions set them
                        quite straight, and they gave up the quest. There was nothing to do but to
                        sit back and wait.
                    In those three days Anderson Crow turned greyer and older, although he
                        maintained a splendid show of resignation. He had made a perfunctory offer
                        of reward for Rosalie, dead or alive, but he knew all the time that it would
                        be fruitless. Mark Riley, the billposter, stuck up the glaring reward
                        notices as far away as the telegraph poles in Clay County. The world was
                        given to understand that $1000 reward would be paid for Rosalie's return or
                        for information leading to the apprehension and capture of her
                        abductors.
                    There was one very mysterious point in connection with the affairsomething so
                        strange that it bordered on the supernatural. No human being in Bramble  County except the two boys had seen the
                        double-seated sleigh. It had disappeared as if swallowed by the earth
                        itself.
                    "Well, it don't do any good to cry over spilt milk," said Anderson bravely.
                        "She's gone, an' I only hope she ain't bein' mistreated. I don't see why
                        they should harm her. She's never done nobody a wrong. Like as not she's
                        been taken to a comfortable place in New York, an' we'll hear from her as
                        soon as she recovers from the shock. There ain't no use huntin' fer her, I
                        know, but I jest can't help nosin' around a little. Mebby I can git some
                        track of her. I'd give all I got in this world to know that she's safe an'
                        sound, no matter if I never see her ag'in."
                    The hungry look in his eyes deepened, and no one bandied jests with him as
                        was the custom in days gone by.
                    There were not many tramps practising in that section of the State. Anderson
                        Crow proudly announced that they gave Tinkletown a wide berth because of his
                        prowess; but the vagabond gentry took an entirely different view of the
                        question. They did not infest the upper part of the State for the simple but
                        eloquent reason that it meant starvation to them. The farmers compelled the
                        weary wayfarer to work all day like a borrowed horse for a single meal at
                        the "second table." There was no such thing as a "hand-out," as it is known
                        in the tramp's vocabulary. It is not extraordinary, therefore, that tramps
                        found the community so unattractive that they cheerfully walked  miles to avoid it. A peculiarly well-informed
                        vagrant once characterised the up-State farmer as being so "close that he
                        never shaved because it was a waste of hair."
                    It is hardly necessary to state, in view of the attitude of both farmer and
                        tramp, that the misguided vagrant who wandered that way was the object of
                        distinct, if not distinguished, curiosity. In the country roads he was
                        stared at with a malevolence that chilled his appetite, no matter how long
                        he had been cultivating it on barren soil. In the streets of Tinkletown, and
                        even at the county seat, he was an object of such amazing concern that he
                        slunk away in pure distress. It was indeed an unsophisticated tramp who
                        thought to thrive in Bramble County even for a day and a night. In front of
                        the general store and post-office at Tinkletown there was a sign-post, on
                        which Anderson Crow had painted these words:
                    "No tramps or Live Stock Allowed on these Streets.
                    "By order of
                    "A. CROW, Marshal."
                    The live stock disregarded the command, but the tramp took warning. On rare
                        occasions he may have gone through some of the houses in Tinkletown, but if
                        he went through the streets no one was the wiser. Anderson Crow solemnly but
                        studiously headed him off in the outskirts, and he took another direction.
                        Twice in his career he drove out tramps who had burglarised the houses of
                        prominent citizens in broad daylight, but what did it matter so long as the
                             "hoboes" were kept from desecrating the
                        main street of the town? Mr. Crow's official star, together with his badge
                        from the New York detective agency, his Sons of the Revolution pin, and his
                        G. A. R. insignia, made him a person to be feared. If the weather became too
                        hot for coat and vest the proud dignitary fastened the badges to his
                        suspenders, and their presence glorified the otherwise humble
                        "galluses."
                    On the fourth day after the abduction Marshal Crow was suddenly aroused from
                        his lethargy by the news that the peace and security of the neighbourhood
                        was being imposed upon.
                    "The dickens you say!" he observed, abandoning the perpetual grip upon his
                        straggling chin whiskers.
                    "Yes, sir," responded the excited small boy, who, with two companions, had
                        run himself quite out of breath all over town before he found the officer at
                        Harkin's blacksmith shop.
                    "Well, dang 'em!" said Mr. Crow impressively.
                    "We was skatin' in the marsh when we heerd 'em plain as day," said the other
                        boy. "You bet I'm nuvver goin' nigh that house ag'in."
                    "Sho! Bud, they ain't no sech thing as ghosts," said Mr. Crow; "it's
                        tramps."
                    "You know that house is ha'nted," protested Bud.
                    "Wasn't ole Mrs. Rank slew there by her son-in-law? Wasn't she chopped to
                        pieces and buried there right in her own cellar?"
                    "Thunderation, boy, that was thirty year ago!"
                    "Well, nobody's lived in the ha'nted house sence then, has they? Didn't Jim
                        Smith try to sleep there 
                        
                            THE HAUNTED HOUSE
                            
                        
                         oncet on a bet, an' didn't he hear sech awful
                        noises 'at he liked to went crazy?" insisted Bud.
                    "I do recollect that Jim run two mile past his own house
                        before he could stop, he was in sech a hurry to git away from the place. But
                        Jim didn't see anything. Besides, that was twenty year
                        ago. Ghosts don't hang aroun' a place when there ain't nothin' to ha'nt. Her
                        son-in-law was hung, an' she ain't got no one else to pester. I tell you
                        it's tramps."
                    "Well, we just thought we'd tell you, Mr. Crow," said the first boy.
                    In a few minutes it was known throughout the business centre of Tinkletown
                        that tramps were making their home in the haunted house down the river, and
                        that Anderson Crow was to ride forth on his bicycle to rout them out. The
                        haunted house was three miles from town and in the most desolate section of
                        the bottomland. It was approachable only through the treacherous swamp on
                        one side or by means of the river on the other. Not until after the murder
                        of its owner and builder, old Johanna Rank, was there an explanation offered
                        for the existence of a home in such an unwholesome locality.
                    Federal authorities discovered that she and her son-in-law, Dave Wolfe, were
                        at the head of a great counterfeiting gang, and that they had been working
                        up there in security for years, turning out spurious coins by the hundred.
                        One night Dave up and killed his mother-in-law, and was hanged for his good
                        deed before he could be punished for his bad ones. For thirty years the
                        weather-beaten, ramshackle old cabin  in the
                        swamp had been unoccupied except by birds, lizards, and other denizens of
                        the solitudealways, of course, including the ghost of old Mrs. Rank.
                    Inasmuch as Dave chopped her into small bits and buried them in the cellar,
                        while her own daughter held the lantern, it was not beyond the range of
                        possibility that certain atoms of the unlamented Johanna were never
                        unearthed by the searchers. It was generally believed in the community that
                        Mrs. Rank's spirit came back every little while to nose around in the dirt
                        of the cellar in quest of such portions of her person as had not been
                        respectably interred in the village graveyard.
                    Mysterious noises had been heard about the place at the dead hour of night,
                        and ghostly lights had flitted past the cellar windows. All Tinkletown
                        agreed that the place was haunted and kept at a most respectful distance.
                        The three small boys who startled Marshal Crow from his moping had gone down
                        the river to skate instead of going to school. They swore that the sound of
                        muffled voices came from the interior of the cabin, near which they had
                        inadvertently wandered.
                    
                    
                    Although Dave Wolfe had been dead thirty years, one of the youngest of the
                        lads was positive that he recognised the voice of the desperado. And at once
                        the trio fled the 'cursed spot and brought the horrifying news to Anderson
                        Crow. The detective was immediately called upon to solve the ghostly
                            mystery.
                    
                    
                    Marshal Crow first went to his home and donned his blue coat, transferring
                        the stars and badges to the greasy lapel of the garment. He also secured his
                        dark lantern and the official cane of the village, but why he should carry a
                        cane on a bicycle expedition was known only to himself. Followed by a horde
                        of small boys and a few representative citizens of Tinkletown on antiquated
                        wheels, Mr. Crow pedalled majestically off to the south. Skirting the swamp,
                        the party approached the haunted house over the narrow path which ran along
                        the river bank. Once in sight of the dilapidated cabin, which seemed to
                        slink farther and farther back into the dense shadows of the late afternoon,
                        with all the diffidence of the supernatural, the marshal called a halt and
                        announced his plans.
                    "You kids go up an' tell them fellers I want to see 'em," he commanded. The
                        boys fell back and prepared to whimper.
                    "I don't want to," protested Bud.
                    "Why don't you go an' tell 'em yourself, Anderson?" demanded Isaac Porter,
                        the pump repairer.
                    "Thunderation, Ike, who's runnin' this thing?" retorted Anderson Crow. "I got
                        a right to deputise anybody to do anything at any time. Don't you s'pose I
                        know how to handle a job like this? I got my own idees how to waylay them
                        raskils, an' I reckon I been in the detectin' business long enough to know
                        how to manage a gol-derned tramp, ain't I? How's that? Who says I
                        ain't?"
                    "Nobody said a word, Anderson," meekly observed Jim Borum.
                    
                    "Well, I thought somebody did. An' I don't want nobody
                        interferin' with an officer, either. Bud, you an' them two Heffner boys go
                        up an' tell them loafers to step down here right spry er I'll come up there
                        an' see about it."
                    "Gosh, Mr. Crow, I'm a-skeered to!" whimpered Bud. The Heffner boys started
                        for home on a dead run.
                    "Askeered to?" sniffed Anderson. "An' your great-grand-dad was in the
                        Revolution, too. Geminy crickets, ef you was my boy I'd give you somethin'
                        to be askeered of! Now, Bud, nothin' kin happen to you. Ain't I here?"
                    "But suppose they won't come when I tell 'em?"
                    "Yes, 'n' supposin' 'tain't tramps, but ghosts?" volunteered Mr. Porter,
                        edging away with his bicycle. It was now quite dark and menacing in there
                        where the cabin stood. As the outcome of half an hour's discussion, the
                        whole party advanced slowly upon the house, Anderson Crow in the lead, his
                        dark lantern in one hand, his cane in the other. Half way to the house he
                        stopped short and turned to Bud.
                    "Gosh dern you, Bud! I don't believe you heerd any noise in there at all!
                        There ain't no use goin' any further with this, gentlemen. The dern boys was
                        lyin'. We might jest as well go home." And he would have started for home
                        had not Isaac Porter uttered a fearful groan and staggered back against a
                        swamp reed for support, his horrified eyes glued upon a window in the log
                        house. The reed was inadequate, and Isaac tumbled over backward.
                    
                    For a full minute the company stared dumbly at the indistinct little window,
                        paralysis attacking every sense but that of sight. At the expiration of
                        another minute the place was deserted, and Anderson Crow was the first to
                        reach the bicycles far up the river bank. Every face was as white as chalk,
                        and every voice trembled. Mr. Crow's dignity asserted itself just as the
                        valiant posse prepared to "straddle" the wheels in mad flight.
                    "Hold on!" he panted. "I lost my dark lantern down there. Go back an' git it,
                        Bud."
                    "Land o' mighty! Did y'ever see anythin' like it?" gasped Jim Borum, trying
                        to mount a ten-year-old boy's wheel instead of his own.
                    "I'd like to have anybody tell me there ain't no sech things as ghosts,"
                        faltered Uncle Jimmy Borton, who had always said there wasn't. "Let go,
                        there! Ouch!" The command and subsequent exclamation were the inevitable
                        results of his unsuccessful attempt to mount with Elon Jones the same
                        wheel.
                    "What 'd I tell you, Anderson?" exclaimed Isaac Porter. "Didn't I say it was
                        ghosts? Tramps nothin'! A tramp wouldn't last a second up in that house.
                        It's been ha'nted fer thirty years an' it gits worse all the time. What air
                        we goin' to do next?"
                    Even the valiant Mr. Crow approved of an immediate return to Tinkletown, and
                        the posse was trying to disentangle its collection of bicycles when an
                        interruption came from an unsuspected quartera deep, masculine voice arose
                        from the ice-covered river hard by, almost directly below that section of
                        the bank on  which Anderson and his friends
                        were herded. The result was startling. Every man leaped a foot in the air
                        and every hair stood on end; bicycles rattled and clashed together, and Ed
                        Higgins, hopelessly bewildered, started to run in the direction of the
                        haunted house.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVII
                    Wicker Bonner, Harvard
                    "HELLO, up there!" was what the deep, masculine voice shouted from the river.
                        Anderson Crow was the first to distinguish the form of the speaker, and he
                        was not long in deciding that it was far from ghost like. With a word of
                        command he brought his disorganised forces out of chaos and huddled them
                        together as if to resist attack.
                    "What's the matter with you?" he demanded, addressing his men in a loud tone.
                        "Don't get rattled!"
                    "Are you speaking to me?" called the fresh voice from below.
                    "Who are you?" demanded Mr. Crow in return.
                    "Nobody in particular. What's going on up there? What's the fuss?"
                    "Come up an' find out." Then Mr. Crow, observing that the man below was
                        preparing to comply, turned and addressed his squad in low, earnest tones.
                        "This feller will bear watchin'. He's mixed up in this thing somehow. Else
                        why is he wanderin' around here close to the house? I'll question him."
                    "By gosh, he ain't no ghost!" murmured Ed Higgins, eyeing the newcomer as he
                        crawled up the bank. "Say, did y' see me a minute ago? If you fellers had
                        come on, I was goin' right up to search that 
                        house from top to bottom. Was you all askeered to come?"
                    "Aw, you!" said Anderson Crow in deep scorn.
                    The next instant a stalwart young fellow stood before the marshal, who was
                        eyeing him keenly, even imperiously. The newcomer's good-looking,
                        strong-featured face was lighted up by a smile of surpassing
                        friendliness.
                    "It's lonesome as thunder down here, isn't it? Glad to see you, gentlemen.
                        What's upa bicycle race?"
                    "No, sir; we got a little business up here, that's all," responded Anderson
                        Crow diplomatically. "What air you doin' here?"
                    "Skating. My name is Wicker Bonner, and I'm visiting my uncle, Congressman
                        Bonner, across the river. You know him, I dare say. I've been hanging around
                        here for a week's hunting, and haven't had an ounce of luck in all that
                        time. It's rotten! Aha, I see that you are an officer, sira detective, too.
                        By George, can it be possible that you are searching for some one? If you
                        are, let me in on it. I'm dying for excitement."
                    The young man's face was eager and his voice rang true. Besides, he was a
                        tall, athletic chap, with brawny arms and a broad back. Altogether, he would
                        make a splendid recruit, thought Anderson Crow. He was dressed in rough
                        corduroy knickerbockers, the thick coat buttoned up close to his muffled
                        neck. A woollen cap came down over his ears and a pair of skates dangled
                        from his arm.
                    "Yes, sir; I'm a detective, and we are up here doin'  a little investigatin'. You are from Chicago, I see."
                    "What makes you think so?"
                    "Can't fool me. I c'n always tell. You said, 'I've bean
                        hangin',' instead of 'I've ben hangin'.' See? They say bean in Chicago. Ha! ha! You didn't think I could deduce
                        that, did you?"
                    "I'll confess that I didn't," said Mr. Bonner with a dry smile. "I'm from
                        Boston, however."
                    "Sure," interposed Isaac Porter; "that's where the beans come from,
                        Anderson."
                    "Well, that's neither here nor there," said Mr. Crow, hastily changing the
                        subject. "We're wastin' time."
                    "Stayin' here, you mean?" asked Ed Higgins, quite ready to start.
                        Involuntarily the eyes of the posse turned toward the house among the
                        willows. The stranger saw the concerted glance and made inquiry. Whereupon
                        Mr. Crow, assisted by seven men and five small boys, told Mr. Wicker Bonner,
                        late of Harvard, what had brought them from Tinkletown to the haunted house,
                        and what they had seen upon their arrival. Young Bonner's face glowed with
                        the joy of excitement.
                    "Great!" he cried, fastening his happy eyes upon the hated thing among the
                        trees. "Let's search the place. By George, this is glorious!"
                    "Not on your life!" said Ed Higgins. "You can't get me inside that house.
                        Like as not a feller'd never come out alive."
                    "Well, better men than we have died," said Mr. 
                        Bonner tranquilly. "Come on; I'll go in first. It's all tommy-rot about the
                        place being haunted. In any event, ghosts don't monkey around at this time
                        of day. It's hardly dusk."
                    "But, gosh dern it," exploded Anderson Crow, "we seen it!"
                    "I seen it first," said Isaac Porter proudly.
                    "But I heerd it first," peeped up Master Bud.
                    "You've all been drinking hard cider or pop or something like that," said the
                        brawny scoffer.
                    "Now, see here, you're gittin' fresh, an" began the marshal, swelling up like
                        a pigeon.
                    "Look out behind!" sang out Mr. Bonner, and Anderson jumped almost out of his
                        shoes, besides ripping his shirt in the back, he turned so suddenly.
                    "Jeemses River!" he gasped.
                    "Never turn your back on an unknown danger," cautioned the young man
                        serenely. "Be ready to meet it."
                    "If you're turned t'other way you c'n git a quicker start if you want to
                        run," suggested Jim Borum, bracing himself with a fresh chew of tobacco.
                    "What time is it?" asked Wicker Bonner.
                    Anderson Crow squinted up through the leafless treetops toward the setting
                        sun; then he looked at the shadow of a sapling down on the bank.
                    "It's about seven minutes past fivein the evenin'," he said conclusively.
                        Bonner was impolite enough to pull out his watch for verification.
                    "You're a minute fast," he observed; but he looked at Anderson with a new and
                        respectful admiration.
                    
                    "He c'n detect anything under the sun," said Porter with a feeble laugh at
                        his own joke.
                    "Well, let's go up and ransack that old cabin," announced Bonner, starting
                        toward the willows. The crowd held back. "I'll go alone if you're afraid to
                        come," he went on. "It's my firm belief that you didn't see anything and the
                        noise you boys heard was the wind whistling through the trees. Now, tell the
                        truth, how many of you saw it?"
                    "I did," came from every throat so unanimously that Jim Borum's supplemental
                        oath stood out alone and forceful as a climax.
                    "Then it's worth investigating," announced the Boston man. "It is certainly a
                        very mysterious affair, and you, at least, Mr. Town Marshal, should back me
                        up in the effort to unravel it. Tell me again just what it was you saw and
                        what it looked like."
                    "I won't let no man tell me what my duties are," snorted Anderson, his stars
                        trembling with injured pride. "Of course I'm going to solve the mystery.
                        We've got to see what's inside that house. I thought it was tramps at
                        first."
                    "Well, lead on, then; I'll follow!" said Bonner with a grin.
                    "I thought you was so anxious to go first!" exclaimed Anderson with fine
                        tact. "Go ahead yourself, ef you're so derned brave. I dare you to."
                    Bonner laughed loud enough to awaken every ghost in Bramble County and then
                        strode rapidly toward the house. Anderson Crow followed slowly and the rest
                        straggled after, all alert for the first sign of resistance.
                    
                    "I wish I could find that derned lantern," said Anderson, searching
                        diligently in the deep grass as he walked along, in the meantime permitting
                        Bonner to reach the grim old doorway far in advance of him.
                    "Come on!" called back the intrepid leader, seeing that all save the marshal
                        had halted. "You don't need the lantern. It's still daylight, old chap.
                        We'll find out what it was you all saw in the window."
                    "That's the last of him," muttered Isaac Porter, as the broad back
                        disappeared through the low aperture that was called a doorway. There were
                        no window sashes or panes in the house, and the door had long since rotted
                        from the hinges.
                    "He'll never come out. Let's go home," added Ed Higgins conclusively.
                    "Are you coming?" sang out Bonner from the interior of the house. His voice
                        sounded prophetically sepulchral.
                    "Consarn it, cain't you wait a minute?" replied Anderson Crow, still bravely
                        but consistently looking for the much-needed dark lantern.
                    "It's all right in here. There hasn't been a human being in the house for
                        years. Come on in; it's fine!"
                    Anderson Crow finally ventured up to the doorway and peeped in. Bonner was
                        standing near the tumbledown fireplace, placidly lighting a cigarette.
                    "This is a fine job you've put up on me," he growled. "I thought there would
                        be something doing. There isn't a soul here, and there hasn't been,
                        either."
                    "Thunderation, man, you cain't see ghosts when they don't want you to!" said
                        Anderson Crow. "It  was a ghost, that's
                        settled. I knowed it all the time. Nothin' human ever looked like it, and
                        nothin' alive ever moaned like it did."
                    By this time the rest of the party had reached the cabin door. The less
                        timorous ventured inside, while others contented themselves by looking
                        through the small windows.
                    "Well, if you're sure you really saw something, we'd better make a thorough
                        search of the house and the grounds," said Bonner, and forthwith began
                        nosing about the two rooms.
                    The floors were shaky and the place had the odour of decayed wood. Mould
                        clung to the half-plastered walls, cobwebs matted the ceilings, and rotted
                        fungi covered the filth in the corners. Altogether it was a most uninviting
                        hole, in which no self-respecting ghost would have made its home. When the
                        time came to climb up to the little garret Bonner's followers rebelled. He
                        was compelled to go alone, carrying the lantern, which one of the small boys
                        had found. This part of the house was even more loathsome than below, and it
                        would be impossible to describe its condition. He saw no sign of life, and
                        retired in utter disgust. Then came the trip to the cellar. Again he had no
                        followers, the Tinkletown men emphatically refusing to go down where old
                        Mrs. Rank's body had been buried. Bonner laughed at them and went down
                        alone. It was nauseous with age and the smell of damp earth, but it was
                        cleaner there than above stairs. The cellar was smaller than either of the
                        living rooms, and was to be reached only through the kitchen.  There was no exit leading directly to the
                        exterior of the house, but there was one small window at the south end.
                        Bonner examined the room carefully and then rejoined the party. For some
                        reason the posse had retired to the open air as soon as he left them to go
                        below. No one knew exactly why, but when one started to go forth the others
                        followed with more or less alacrity.
                    "Did you see anything?" demanded the marshal.
                    "What did old Mrs. Rank look like when she was alive?" asked Bonner with a
                        beautifully mysterious air. No one answered; but there was a sudden shifting
                        of feet backward, while an expression of alarmed inquiry came into every
                        face. "Don't back into that open well," warned the amused young man in the
                        doorway. Anderson Crow looked sharply behind, and flushed indignantly when
                        he saw that the well was at least fifty feet away. "I saw something down
                        there that looked like a woman's toe," went on Bonner very soberly.
                    "Good Lord! What did I tell you?" cried the marshal, turning to his friends.
                        To the best of their ability they could not remember that Anderson had told
                        them anything, but with one accord the whole party nodded approval.
                    "I fancy it was the ghost of a toe, however, for when I tried to pick it up
                        it wriggled away, and I think it chuckled. It disappearwhat's the matter?
                        Where are you going?"
                    It is only necessary to state that the marshal and his posse retreated in
                        good order to a distant spot where  it was not
                        quite so dark, there to await the approach of Wicker Bonner, who leisurely
                        but laughingly inspected the exterior of the house and the grounds
                        adjoining. Finding nothing out of the ordinary, except as to dilapidation,
                        he rejoined the party with palpable displeasure in his face.
                    "Well, I think I'll go back to the ice," he said; "that place is as quiet as
                        the grave. You are a fine lot of jokers, and I'll admit that the laugh is on
                        me."
                    But Bonner was mystified, uncertain. He had searched the house thoroughly
                        from top to bottom, and he had seen nothing unusual, but these men and boys
                        were so positive that he could not believe the eyes of all had been
                        deceived.
                    "This interests me," he said at last. "I'll tell you what we'll do, Mr. Crow.
                        You and I will come down here to-night, rig up a tent of some sort and
                        divide watch until morning. If there is anything to be seen we'll find out
                        what it is. I'll get a couple of straw mattresses from our boathouse
                        and"
                    "I've got rheumatiz, Mr. Bonner, an' it would be the death o' me to sleep in
                        this swamp," objected Anderson hastily.
                    "Well, I'll come alone, then. I'm not afraid. I don't mean to say I'll sleep
                        in that old shack, but I'll bunk out here in the woods. No human being could
                        sleep in that place. Will any one volunteer to keep me company?"
                    Silence.
                    "I don't blame you. It does take nerve, I'll confess. My only stipulation is
                        that you shall come down here  from the
                        village early to-morrow morning. I may have something of importance to tell
                        you, Mr. Crow."
                    "We'll find his dead body," groaned old Mr. Borton.
                    "Say, mister," piped up a shrill voice, "I'll stay with you." It was Bud who
                        spoke, and all Tinkletown was afterward to resound with stories of his
                        bravery. The boy had been silently admiring the bold sportsman from Boston
                        town, and he was ready to cast his lot with him in this adventure. He
                        thrilled with pleasure when the big hero slapped him on the back and called
                        him the only man in the crowd.
                    
                    At eight o'clock that night Bonner and the determined but trembling Bud came
                        up the bank from the  river and pitched a tent
                        among the trees near the haunted house. From the sledge on the river below
                        they trundled up their bedding and their stores. Bud had an old
                        single-barrel shotgun, a knife and a pipe, which he was just learning to
                        smoke; Bonner brought a Navajo blanket, a revolver and a heavy walking
                        stick. He also had a large flask of whiskey and the pipe that had graduated
                        from Harvard with him.
                    At nine o'clock he put to bed in one of the chilly nests a very sick boy, who
                        hated to admit that the pipe was too strong for him, but who felt very much
                        relieved when he found himself wrapped snugly in the blankets with his head
                        tucked entirely out of sight. Bud had spent the hour in regaling Bonner with
                        the story of Rosalie Gray's abduction and his own heroic conduct in
                        connection with the case. He confessed that he had knocked one of the
                        villains down, but they were too many for him. Bonner listened politely and
                        thenput the hero to bed.
                    Bonner dozed off at midnight. An hour or so later he suddenly sat bolt
                        upright, wide awake and alert. He had the vague impression that he was
                        deathly cold and that his hair was standing on end.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVIII
                    The Men in the Sleigh
                    LET us go back to the night on which Rosalie was seized and carried away from
                        Mrs. Luce's front gate, despite the valiant resistance of her youthful
                        defenders.
                    Rosalie had drooned Thackeray to the old lady until both of them were dozing,
                        and it was indeed a welcome relief that came with Roscoe's resounding thumps
                        on the front door. Mrs. Luce was too old to be frightened out of a year's
                        growth, but it is perfectly safe to agree with her that the noise cost her
                        at least three months.
                    Desperately blue over the defection of Elsie Banks, Rosalie had found little
                        to make her evening cheerful indoors, but the fresh, crisp air set her
                        spirits bounding the instant she closed Mrs. Luce's door from the outside.
                        We have only to refer to Roscoe's lively narrative for proof of what
                        followed almost instantly. She was seized, her head tightly wrapped in a
                        thick cloak or blanket; then she was thrown into a sleigh, and knew nothing
                        more except a smothering sensation and the odour of chloroform.
                    When she regained consciousness she was lying on the ground in the open air,
                        dark night about her. Three men were standing nearby, but there was no  vehicle in sight. She tried to rise, but on
                        account of her bonds was powerless to do so. Speech was prevented by the
                        cloth which closed her lips tightly. After a time she began to grasp the
                        meaning of the muttered words that passed between the men.
                    "You got the rig in all right, Billyou're sure that no one heard or saw you?"
                        were the first questions she could make out, evidently arising from a
                        previous report or explanation.
                    "Sure. Everybody in these parts goes to bed at sundown. They ain't got
                        nothing to do but sleep up 'ere."
                    "Nobody knows we had that feller's sleigh an' horses outnobody ever will
                        know," said the big man, evidently the leader. She noticed they called him
                        Sam. "Next thing is to git her across the river without leavin' any tracks.
                        We ain't on a travelled road now, pals; we got to be careful. I'll carry her
                        down to the bank; but be sure to step squarely in my footprintsit'll look
                        like they were made by one man. See?"
                    "The river's froze over an' we can't be tracked on the ice. It's too dark,
                        too, for any one to see us. Go ahead, Sammy; it's d cold here."
                    The big man lifted her from the ground as if she were a feather, and she was
                        conscious of being borne swiftly through a stretch of sloping woodland down
                        to the river bank, a journey of two or three hundred yards, it seemed. Here
                        the party paused for many minutes before venturing out upon the wide expanse
                        of frozen river, evidently making sure that the way was clear. Rosalie, her
                        senses quite fully restored by  this time,
                        began to analyse the situation with a clearness and calmness that afterward
                        was the object of considerable surprise to her. Instead of being hysterical
                        with fear, she was actually experiencing the thrill of a real emotion. She
                        had no doubt but that her abductors were persons hired by those connected
                        with her early history, and, strange as it may seem, she could not believe
                        that bodily harm was to be her fate after all these years of secret
                        attention on the part of those so deeply, though remotely, interested.
                    Somehow there raced through her brain the exhilarating conviction that at
                        last the mystery of her origin was to be cleared away, and with it all that
                        had been as a closed book. No thought of death entered her mind at that
                        time. Afterward she was to feel that death would be most welcome, no matter
                        how it came.
                    Her captors made the trip across the river in dead silence. There was no moon
                        and the night was inky black. The exposed portions of her face tingled with
                        cold, but she was so heavily wrapped in the blanket that her body did not
                        feel the effects of the zero weather.
                    At length the icy stretch was passed, and after resting a few minutes, Sam
                        proceeded to ascend the steep bank with her in his arms. Why she was not
                        permitted to walk she did not know then or afterward. It is possible, even
                        likely, that the men thought their charge was unconscious. She did nothing
                        to cause them to think otherwise. Again they passed among trees, Sam's
                        companions following in his footprints as before. Another halt and a brief
                        command for  Davy to go ahead and see that the
                        coast was clear came after a long and tortuous struggle through the
                        underbrush. Twice they seemed to have lost their bearings in the darkness,
                        but eventually they came into the open.
                    "Here we are!" grunted Sam as they hurried across the clearing. "A hard
                        night's work, pals, but I guess we're in Easy Street now. Go ahead, Davy,
                        an' open the trap!"
                    Davy swore a mighty but sibilant oath and urged his thick, ugly figure ahead
                        of the others.
                    A moment later the desperadoes and their victim passed through a door and
                        into a darkness even blacker than that outside. Davy was pounding carefully
                        upon the floor of the room in which they stood. Suddenly a faint light
                        spread throughout the room and a hoarse, raucous voice whispered:
                    "Have you got her?"
                    "Get out of the waywe're near froze;" responded Davy gruffly.
                    "Get down there, Bill, and take her; I'm tired carryin' this hundred and
                        twenty pounder," growled Sam.
                    The next instant Rosalie was conscious of being lowered through a trap door
                        in the floor, and then of being borne rapidly through a long, narrow
                        passage, lighted fitfully by the rays of a lantern in the hands of a fourth
                        and as yet unseen member of the band.
                    "There!" said Bill, impolitely dropping his burden upon a pile of straw in
                        the corner of the rather extensive cave at the end of the passage; "wonder
                        if the  little fool is dead. She ought to be
                        coming to by this time."
                    "She's got her eyes wide open," uttered the raucous voice on the opposite
                        side; and Rosalie turned her eyes in that direction. She looked for a full
                        minute as if spellbound with terror, her gaze centred at the most repulsive
                        human face she ever had seenthe face of Davy's mother.
                    The woman was a giantess, a huge, hideous creature with the face of a man,
                        hairy and bloated. Her unkempt hair was grey almost to whiteness, her teeth
                        were snags, and her eyes were almost hidden beneath the shaggy brow. There
                        was a glare of brutal satisfaction in them that appalled the girl.
                    
                    
                    For the first time since the adventure began her heart failed her, and she
                        shuddered perceptibly as her lids fell.
                    "What the hare you skeering her fer like that, ma," growled Davy. "Don't look
                        at her like that, or"
                    "See here, my boy, don't talk like that to me if you don't want me to kick
                        your head off right where you stand. I'm your mother, Davy, an'"
                    "That'll do. This ain't no time to chew the rag," muttered Sam. "We're done
                        fer. Get us something to eat an' something to drink, old woman; give the
                        girl a nifter, too. She's fainted, I reckon. Hurry up; I want to turn
                        in."
                    "Better untie her handssee if she's froze," added Bill savagely.
                    Roughly the old woman slashed the bonds from the girl's hands and feet and
                        then looked askance at Sam, who stood warming his hands over a kerosene
                        stove not far away. He nodded his head, and she instantly untied the cloth
                        that covered Rosalie's mouth.
                    "It won't do no good to scream, girl. Nobody'l! hear ye but usand we're your
                        friends," snarled the old woman.
                    "Let her yell if she wants to, Maude. It may relieve her a bit," said Sam,
                        meaning to be kind. Instinctively Rosalie looked about for the person
                        addressed as Maude. There was but one woman in the gang. Maude! That was the
                        creature's name. Instead of crying or shrieking, Rosalie laughed
                        outright.
                    At the sound of the laugh the woman drew back hastily.
                    
                    "By gor!" she gasped; "theshe's gone daffy!"
                    The men turned toward them with wonder in their faces. Bill was the first to
                        comprehend. He saw the girl's face grow sober with an effort, and realised
                        that she was checking her amusement because it was sure to offend.
                    "Aw," he grinned, "I don't blame her fer laughin'! Say what ye will, Maude,
                        your name don't fit you."
                    "It's as good as any name" began the old hag, glaring at him; but Sam
                        interposed with a command to her to get them some hot coffee while he had a
                        talk with the girl. "Set up!" he said roughly, addressing Rosalie. "We ain't
                        goin' to hurt you."
                    Rosalie struggled to a sitting posture, her limbs and back stiff from the
                        cold and inaction. "Don't ask questions, because they won't be answered. I
                        jest want to give you some advice as to how you must act while you are our
                        guest. You must be like one of the family. Maybe we'll be here a day, maybe
                        a week, but it won't be any longer than that."
                    "Would you mind telling me where I am and what this all means? Why have you
                        committed this outrage? What have I done" she found voice to say. He held up
                        his hand.
                    "You forget what I said about askin' questions. There ain't nothin' to tell
                        you, that's all. You're here and that's enough."
                    "Well, who is it that has the power to answer questions, sir? I have some
                        right to ask them. You have"
                    "That'll do, now!" he growled. "I'll put the gag  back on you if you keep it up. So's you won't worry, I want to say this
                        to you: Your friends don't know where you are, and they couldn't find you if
                        they tried. You are to stay right here in this cave until we get orders to
                        move you. When the time comes we'll take you to wherever we're ordered, and
                        then we're through with you. Somebody else will have the say. You won't be
                        hurt here unless you try to escapeit won't do you any good to yell. It ain't
                        a palace, but it's better than the grave. So be wise. All we got to do is to
                        turn you over to the proper parties at the proper time. That's all."
                    "Is the person you speak of mymy mother or my father?" Rosalie asked with
                        bated breath.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIX
                    With the Kidnapers
                    SAM stared at her, and there was something like real
                        amazement in his eyes.
                    "Yer mother or father?" he repeated interrogatively. "Whawhat the devil can
                        they have to do with this affair? I guess they're askin' a lot of ques-i
                        themselves about this time."
                    "Mr. and Mrs. Crow are not my parents," she said; and then shrewdly added,
                        "and you know it, sir."
                    "I've heard that sayin' 'bout a child never knowin' its own father, but this
                        business of both the father and mother is a new one on me. I guess it's the
                        chloroform. Give us that booze, Bill. She's dippy yet."
                    He tried to induce her to swallow some of the whiskey, but steadfastly she
                        refused, until finally, with an evil snarl, Sam commanded the giantess to
                        hold her while he forced the burning liquor down her throat. There was a
                        brief struggle, but Rosalie was no match r the huge woman, whose enormous
                        arms encircled icr; and as the liquid trickled in upon her tongue she heard
                        above the brutal laughter of the would-be doctors the hoarse voice of Bill
                        crying:
                    "Don't hurt her, Sam! Let 'er alone!"
                    "Close yer face! Don't you monkey in this thing, Bill Briggs. I'llwell, you
                        know. Drink this, damn you!"
                    
                    Sputtering and choking, her heart beating wildly with fear and rage, Rosalie
                        was thrown back upon the straw by the woman. Her throat was burning from the
                        effects of the whiskey and her eyes were blinded by the tears of anger and
                        helplessness.
                    "Don't come any of your highfalutin' airs with me, you little cat," shrieked
                        the old woman, rubbing knee that Rosalie had kicked in her struggles.
                    "Lay still there," added Sam. "We don't want to hurt you, but you got to do
                        as I tell you. Understand? Not a word, now! Gimme that coffee-pot, Davy. Go
                        an' see that everything's locked up an' we'll turn in fer the night. Maude,
                        you set up an' keep watch. If she makes a crack, soak her one."
                    "You bet I will. She'll find she ain't attendin' no Sunday-school
                        picnic."
                    "No boozin'!" was Sam's order as he told out small portions of whiskey. Then
                        the gang ate ravenously of the bacon and beans and drank cup after cup of
                        coffee. Later the men threw themselves upon the piles of straw and soon all
                        were snoring. The big woman refilled the lantern and hung it on a peg in the
                        wall of the cave; then she took up her post near the square door leading to
                        the underground passage, her throne an upturned whiskey barrel, her back
                        against the wall of the cave. She glared at Rosalie through the
                        semi-darkness, frequently addressing her with the vilest invectives
                        cautiously utteredand all because her victim had beautiful eyes and was
                        unable to close them in sleep.
                    Rosalie's heart sank as she surveyed the surroundings 
                        
                            "ROSALIE WAS NO MATCH FOR THE HUGE WOMEN"
                        
                         with her mind once more clear and composed.
                        After her recovery from the shock of contact with the old woman and Sam she
                        shrank into a state of mental lassitude that foretold the despair which was
                        to come later on. She did not sleep that night. Her brain was full of
                        whirling thoughts of escape, speculations as to what was to become of her,
                        miserable fears that the end would not be what the first impressions had
                        made it, and, over all, a most intense horror of the old woman, who dozed,
                        but guarded her as no dragon ever watched in the days of long ago.
                    The cave in which they were housed was thirty or forty feet from side to
                        side, almost circular in shape, a low roof slanting to the rocky floor. Here
                        and there were niches in the walls, and in the side opposite to the entrance
                        to the passageway there was a small, black opening, leading without doubt to
                        the outer world. The fact that it was not used at any time during her stay
                        in the cave led her to believe it was not of practical use. Two or three
                        coal-oil stoves were used to heat the cave and for cooking purposes. There were several lanterns, a  number of implements (such as spades, axes,
                        crowbars, sledges, and so forth), stool-kegs, a rough table, which was used
                        for all purposes known to the dining-room, kitchen, scullery and even
                        bedchamber. Sam slept on the table. Horse blankets were thrown about the
                        floor in confusion. They served as bedclothes when the gang slept. At other
                        times they might as well have been called doormats. One of the niches in the
                        wall was used as the resting place for such bones or remnants as might
                        strike it when hurled in that direction by the occupants. No one took the
                        trouble to carefully bestow anything in the garbage hole, and no one
                        pretended to clean up after the other. The place was foul smelling, hot and
                        almost suffocating with the fumes from the stoves, for which there seemed no
                        avenue of escape.
                    Hours afterward, although they seemed drawn out into years, the men began to
                        breathe naturally, and a weird silence reigned in the cave. They were awake.
                        The venerable Maude emerged from her doze, looked apprehensively at Sam,
                        prodded the corner to see that the prize had not faded away, and then began
                        ponderously to make preparations for a meal, supposedly breakfast. Meagre
                        ablutions, such as they were, were performed in the "living room," a bucket
                        of water serving as a general wash-basin. No one had removed his clothing
                        during the night, not even his shoes. It seemed to her that the gang was in
                        an ever-ready condition to evacuate the place at a moment's notice.
                    
                    Rosalie would not eat, nor would she bathe her face in the water that had
                        been used by the quartette before her. Bill Briggs, with some sense of
                        delicacy in his nature, brought some fresh water from the far end of the
                        passageway. For this act he was reviled by his companions.
                    "It's no easy job to get water here, Briggs," roared Sam. "We got to be
                        savin' with it."
                    "Well, don't let it hurt you," retorted Bill. "I'll carry it up from the
                        river to-night. You won't have to do it."
                    "She ain't any better'n I am," snorted Maude, "and nobody goes out to bring
                        me a private bath, I take notice. Get up here and eat something, you rat! Do
                        you want us to force it down you"
                    "If she don't want to eat don't coax her," said Sam. "She'll soon get over
                        that. We was only hired to get her here and get her away again, and not to
                        make her eat or even wash. That's nothing to us."
                    "Well, she's got to eat or she'll die, and you know, Sam Welch, that ain't to
                        be," retorted the old woman.
                    "She'll eat before she'll die, Maudie; don't worry."
                    "I'll never eat a mouthful!" cried Rosalie, a brave, stubborn light in her
                        eyes. She was standing in the far corner drying her face with her
                        handkerchief.
                    "Oho, you can talk again, eh? Hooray! Now we'll hear the story of her life,"
                        laughed big Sam, his mouth full of bacon and bread. Rosalie flushed and the
                        tears welled to her eyes.
                    All day long she suffered taunts and gibes from the gang. She grew to fear
                        Davy's ugly leers more than  the brutal words
                        of the others. When he came near she shrank back against the wall; when he
                        spoke she cringed; when he attempted to touch her person she screamed. It
                        was this act that brought Sam's wrath upon Davy's head. He won something
                        like gratitude from the girl by profanely commanding Davy to confine his
                        love to looks and not to acts.
                    "She ain't to be harmed," was Sam's edict. "That goes, too."
                    "Aw, you go to" began Davy belligerently.
                    
                    "What's that?" snarled Sam, whirling upon him with a glare. Davy slunk behind
                        his mother and glared back. Bill moved over to Sam's side. For a moment the
                        air was heavy with signs of an affray. Rosalie crouched in her corner, her
                        hand over her ears, her eyes closed. There was murder in Davy's face. "I'll
                        break every bone in your body!" added Sam; but Bill laconically stayed him
                        with a word.
                    "Rats!" It was brief, but it brought the irate Sam to his senses. Trouble was
                        averted for the time being.
                    
                    "Davy ain't afraid of him," cried that worthy's mother shrilly.
                    "You bet I ain't!" added Davy after a long string of oaths. Sam grinned
                            viciously.
                    
                    "There ain't nothin' to fight about, I guess," he said, although he did not
                        look it. "We'd be fools to scrap. Everything to lose and nothin' to gain.
                        All I got to say, Davy, is that you ain't to touch that girl."
                    "Who's goin' to touch her?" roared Davy, bristling bravely. "An' you ain't to
                        touch her nuther," he added.
                    The day wore away, although it was always night in the windowless cave, and
                        again the trio of men slept, with Maude as guard. Exhausted and faint,
                        Rosalie fell into a sound sleep. The next morning she ate sparingly of the
                        bacon and bread and drank some steaming coffee, much to the derisive delight
                        of the hag.
                    "You had to come to it, eh?" she croaked. "Had to feed that purty face, after
                        all. I guess we're all alike. We're all flesh and blood, my lady."
                    The old woman never openly offered personal violence  to the girl. She stood in some fear of the leadernot physical
                        fear, but the strange homage that a brute pays to its master. Secretly she
                        took savage delight in treading on the girl's toes or in pinching her arms
                        and legs, twisting her hair, spilling hot coffee on her hands, cursing her
                        softly and perpetrating all sorts of little indignities that could not be
                        resented, for the simple reason that they could not be proved against her.
                        Her word was as good as Rosalie's.
                    
                    Hourly the strain grew worse and worse. The girl became ill and feverish with
                        fear, loathing and uncertainty. Her ears rang with the horrors of their
                        lewdness, her eyes came to see but little, for she kept them closed for the
                        very pain of what they were likely to witness. In her heart there grew a
                        constant prayer for deliverance from their clutches. She was much too
                        strong-minded and healthy to pray for death, but her mind fairly reeled with
                        the thoughts of the vengeance she would exact.
                    The third day found the gang morose and ugly. The confinement was as irksome
                        to them as it was  to her. They fretted and
                        worried, swore and growled. At nightfall of each day Sam ventured forth
                        through the passage and out into the night. Each time he was gone for two or
                        three hours, and each succeeding return to the vile cave threw the gang into
                        deeper wrath. The word they were expecting was not forthcoming, the command
                        from the real master was not given. They played cards all day, and at last
                        began to drink more deeply than was wise. Two desperate fights occurred
                        between Davy and Sam on the third day. Bill and the old woman pulled them
                        apart after both had been battered savagely.
                    "She's sick, Sam," growled Bill, standing over the cowering, white-faced
                        prisoner near the close of the fourth day. Sam had been away nearly all of
                        the previous night, returning gloomily without news from headquarters.
                        "She'll die in this d place and so will we if we don't get out soon. Look at
                        her! Why, she's as white as a sheet. Let's give her some fresh air, Sammy.
                        It's safe. Take her up in the cabin for a while. To-night we can take her
                        outside the place. Good Lord, Sammy, I've got a bit of heart! I can't see
                        her die in this hole. Look at her! Can't you see she's nearly done for?"
                    After considerable argument, pro and con, it was decided that it would be
                        safe and certainly wise to let the girl breathe the fresh air once in a
                        while. That morning Sam took her into the cabin through the passage. The
                        half hour in the cold, fresh air revived her, strengthened her perceptibly.
                        Her spirits took an upward bound. She began to ask  questions, and for some reason he began to take notice of
                        them. It may have been the irksomeness of the situation, his own longing to
                        be away, his anger toward the person who had failed to keep the promise made
                        before the abduction, that led him to talk quite freely.
                    
                    
                        WICKER BONNER
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XX
                    In the Cave
                    "It's not my fault that we're still here," he growled in answer to her
                        pathetic appeal. "I've heard you prayin' for Daddy Crow to come and take you
                        away. Well, it's lucky for him that he don't know where you are. We'd make
                        mincemeat of that old jay in three minutes. Don't do any more prayin'.
                        Prayers are like dreamsyou have 'em at night and wonder why the next day.
                        Now, look 'ere, Miss Gray, we didn't do this rotten job for the love of
                        excitement. We're just as anxious to get out of it as you are."
                    "I only ask why I am held here and what is to become of me?" said Rosalie
                        resignedly. She was standing across the table from where he sat smoking his
                        great, black pipe. The other members of the gang were lounging about, surly
                        and black-browed, chafing inwardly over the delay in getting away from the
                        cave.
                    "I don't know why you've been held here. I only know it's d slow. I'd chuck
                        the job, if there wasn't so much dust in it for me."
                    "But what is to become of me? I cannot endure this much longer. It is killing
                        me. Look! I am black and blue from pinches. The old woman never misses an
                        opportunity to hurt me."
                    
                    "She's jealous of you because you're purty, that's all. Women are all alike,
                        hang 'em! I wouldn't be in this sort of work if it hadn't been for a jealous
                        wife."
                    He puffed at his pipe moodily for a long time, evidently turning some problem
                        over and over in his mind. At last, heaving a deep sigh, and prefacing his
                        remarks with an oath, he let light in upon the mystery. "I'll put you next
                        to the job. Can't give any names; it wouldn't be square. You see, it's this
                        way: you ain't wanted in this country. I don't know why, but you ain't."
                    "Not wanted in this country?" she cried blankly. "I don't stand in any one's
                        way. My life and my love are for the peaceful home that you have taken me
                        from. I don't ask for anything else. Won't you tell your employer as much
                        for me? If I am released, I shall never interfere with the plans of"
                    "'Tain't that, I reckon. You must be mighty important to somebody, or all
                        this trouble wouldn't be gone through with. The funny part of it is that we
                        ain't to hurt you. You ain't to be killed, you know. That's the queer part
                        of it, ain't it?"
                    "I'll admit it has an agreeable sound to me," said Rosalie with a shadow of a
                        smile on her trembling lips. "It seems ghastly, though."
                    "Well, anyhow, it's part of somebody's scheme to get you out of this country
                        altogether. You are to be taken away on a ship, across the ocean, I think.
                        Paris or London, mebby, and you are never to come 
                        
                            "SHE SHRANK BACK FROM ANOTHER BLOW WHICH SEEMED
                                    IMPENDING"
                        
                         back to the United States. Never, that's what
                        I'm told."
                    Rosalie was speechless, stunned. Her eyes grew wide with the misery of doubt
                        and horror, her lips moved as if forming the words which would not come.
                        Before she could bring a sound from the contracted throat the raucous voice
                        of old Maude broke in:
                    "What are you tellin' her, Sam Welch? Can't you keep your face closed?" she
                        called, advancing upon him with a menacing look.
                    "Aw, it's nothin' to you," he retorted, but an uncomfortable expression
                        suddenly crept into his face. A loud, angry discussion ensued, the whole
                        gang engaging. Three to one was the way it stood against the leader, who was
                        forced to admit, secretly if not publicly, that he had no right to talk
                        freely of the matter to the girl. In vain she pleaded and promised. Her
                        tears were of no avail, once Sam had concluded to hold his tongue. Angry
                        with himself for having to submit to the demands of the others, furious
                        because she saw his surrender, Sam, without a word of warning, suddenly
                        struck her on the side of the head with the flat of his broad hand, sending
                        her reeling into the corner. Dazed, hurt and half stunned, she dropped to
                        her knees, unable to stand. With a piteous look in her eyes she shrank back
                        from another blow which seemed impending. Bill Briggs grasped his leader's
                        arm and drew him away, cursing and snarling.
                    Late in the afternoon, Bill was permitted to conduct her into the cabin
                        above, for a few minutes in the air,  and for
                        a glimpse of the failing sunlight. She had
                        scarcely taken her stand before the little window when she was hastily
                        jerked away, but not before she thought she had perceived a crowd of men,
                        huddling among the trees not far away. A scream for help started to her
                        lips; but Bill's heavy hand checked it effectually. His burly arm sent her
                        scuttling toward the trap-door; and a second later she was below, bruised
                        from the fall and half fainting with disappointment and despair.
                    Brief as the glimpse had been, she was positive she recognised two faces in
                        the crowd of menAnderson Crow's and Ed Higgins's. It meant, if her eyes did
                        not deceive her, that the searchers were near at hand, and that dear, old
                        Daddy Crow was leading them. Her hopes flew upward and she could not subdue
                        the triumphant glance that swept the startled crowd when Bill breathlessly
                        broke the news.
                    Absolute quiet reigned in the cave after that. Maude cowed the prisoner into
                        silence with the threat to cut out her tongue if she uttered a cry. Later,
                        the tramp of feet could be heard on the floor of the cabin.  There was a sound of voices, loud peals of
                        laughter, and then the noise made by some one in the cellar that served as a
                        blind at one end of the cabin. After that, dead-silence. At nightfall, Sam
                        stealthily ventured forth to reconnoitre. He came back with the report that
                        the woods and swamps were clear and that the searchers, if such they were,
                        had gone away.
                    "The house, since Davy's grandma's bones were stored away in that cellar for
                        several moons, has always been thought to be haunted. The fools probably
                        thought they saw a ghostan' they're runnin' yet."
                    Then for the first time Rosalie realised that she was in the haunted cabin in
                        the swamp, the most fearsome of all places in the world to Tinkletown, large
                        and small. Not more than three miles from her own fireside! Not more than
                        half an hour's walk from Daddy Crow and others in the warmth of whose love
                        she had lived so long!
                    "It's gettin' too hot here for us," growled Sam at supper. "We've just got to
                        do something. I'm going out to-night to see if there's any word from thefrom
                        the party. These guys ain't all fools. Somebody is liable to nose out the
                        trap-door before long and there'll be hell to pay. They won't come back
                        before to-morrow, I reckon. By thunder, there ought to be word from thethe
                        boss by this time. Lay low, everybody; I'll be back before daybreak. This
                        time I'm a-goin' to find out something sure or know the reason why. I'm
                        gettin' tired of this business.  Never know
                        what minute the jig's up, nor when the balloon busts."
                    Again he stole forth into the night, leaving his companions more or less
                        uneasy as to the result, after the startling events of the afternoon. Hour
                        after hour passed, and with every minute therein, Rosalie's ears strained
                        themselves to catch the first sound of approaching rescuers. Her spirits
                        fell, but her hopes were high. She felt sure that the men outside had seen
                        her face and that at last they had discovered the place in which she was
                        kept. It would only be a question of time until they learned the baffling
                        secret of the trap-door. Her only fear lay in the possibility that she might
                        be removed by her captors before the rescuers could accomplish her
                            delivery. Her bright,  feverish, eager eyes, gleaming from the sunken white cheeks,
                        appealed to Bill Briggs more than he cared to admit. The ruffian, less
                        hardened than his fellows, began to feel sorry for her.
                    Eleven o'clock found the trio anxious and ugly in their restlessness. There
                        was no sleep for them. Davy visited the trap over a hundred times that
                        night. His mother, breaking over the traces of restraint, hugged the jug of
                        whiskey, taking swig after swig as the vigil wore on. At last Davy, driven
                        to it, insisted upon having his share. Bill drank but little, and it was not
                        long before Rosalie observed the shifty, nervous look in his eyes. From time
                        to time he slyly appropriated certain articles, dropping them into his coat
                        pocket. His ear muffs, muffler, gloves, matches, tobacco and many chunks of
                        bread and bacon were stowed stealthily in the pockets of his coat. At last
                        it dawned upon her that Bill was preparing to desert. Hope lay with him,
                        then. If he could only be induced to give her an equal chance to escape!
                    Mother and son became maudlin in theirnot cups, but jug; but Davy had the
                        sense to imbibe more cautiously, a fact which seemed to annoy the nervous
                        Bill.
                    "I must have airfresh air," suddenly moaned Rosalie from her corner, the
                        strain proving too great for her nerves. Bill strode over and looked down
                        upon the trembling form for a full minute. "Take me outside for just a
                        minutejust a minute, please. I am dying in here."
                    "Lemme take her out," cackled old Maude. "I'll 
                        give her all the air she wants. Want sosome air myself. Lemme give her air,
                        Bill. Have some air on me, pardner. Lemme"
                    "Shut up, Maude!" growled Bill, glancing uneasily about the cave. "I'll take
                        her up in the cabin fer a couple of minutes. There ain't no danger."
                    Davy protested, but Bill carried his point, simply because he was sober and
                        knew his power over the half-stupefied pair. Davy let them out through the
                        trap, promising to wait below until they were ready to return.
                    "Are you going away?" whispered Rosalie, as they passed out into the cold,
                        black night.
                    "Sh! Don't talk, damn you!" he hissed.
                    "Let me go too. I know the way home and you need have no fear of me. I like
                        you, but I hate the others. Please, please! For God's sake, let me go! They
                        can't catch me if I have a little start."
                    "I'd like to, but II dassent. Sam would hunt me down and kill mehe would
                        sure. I am goin' myselfI can't stand it no longer."
                    "Have pity! Don't leave me alone with them. Oh, God, if you"
                    Moaning piteously, she pleaded with him; but he was obdurate, chiefly through
                        fear of the consequences. In his heart he might have been willing to give
                        her the chance, but his head saw the danger to itself and it was firm.
                    "I'll tell you what I'll do," he whispered in the end. "I'll take you back
                        there and then I'll go and tell your friends where you are and how  to help you. Honest! Honest, I will. I know
                        it's as broad as it is long, but I'd rather do it that way. They'll be here
                        in a couple of hours and you'll be free. Nobody will be the wiser. Curse
                        your whining! Shut up! Damn you, get back in there! Don't give me away to
                        Davy, and I'll swear to help you out of this."
                    A minute of two later, he dragged her back into the cabin, moaning, pleading,
                        and crying from the pain of a sudden blow. Ten minutes afterward he went
                        forth again, this time ostensibly to meet Sam; but Rosalie knew that he was
                        gone forever.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXI
                    The Trap-Door
                    A SICKLY new moon threw vague ghostly beams across the
                        willow-lined swamp, out beyond the little cabin that stood on its border.
                        Through the dense undergrowth and high among the skeleton treetops ugly
                        shadows played with each other, while a sepulchral orchestra of wind and
                        bough shrieked a dirge that flattened in Bonner's ears; but it was not the
                        weird music of the swamp that sent the shudder of actual terror through the
                        frame of the big athlete.
                    A series of muffled, heartbreaking moans, like those of a woman in dire pain,
                        came to his ears. He felt the cold perspiration start over his body. His
                        nerves grew tense with trepidation, his eyes wide with horror.
                        Instinctively, his fingers clutched the revolver at his side and his gaze
                        went toward the black, square thing which marked the presence of the haunted
                        house. The orchestra of the night seemed to bring its dirge to a close; a
                        chill interlude of silence ensued. The moans died away into choking sobs,
                        and Bonner's ears could hear nothing else. A sudden thought striking him, he
                        rolled out of his bed and made his way to Bud's pile of blankets. But the
                        solution was not there. The lad was sound asleep and no sound issued from
                        his lips. The moans came from another source, human or otherwise, out there
                        in the crinkling night.
                    
                    Carefully making his way from the tent, his courage once more restored but
                        his flesh still quivering, Bonner looked intently for manifestations in the
                        black home of Johanna Rank. He half expected to see a ghostly light flit
                        past a window. It was intensely dark in the thicket, but the shadowy marsh
                        beyond silhouetted the house into a black relief. He was on all fours behind
                        a thick pile of brush, nervously drawing his pipe from his pocket, conscious
                        that he needed it to steady his nerves, when a fresh sound, rising above the
                        faint sobs, reached his ears. Then the low voice of a man came from some
                        place in the darkness, and these words rang out distinctly:
                    "Damn you!"
                    He drew back involuntarily, for the voice seemed to be at his elbow. The sobs
                        ceased suddenly, as if choked by a mighty hand.
                    The listener's inclination was to follow the example of Anderson Crow and run
                        madly off into the night. But beneath this natural panic was the soul of
                        chivalry. Something told him that a woman out there in the solitude needed
                        the arms of a man; and his blood began to grow hot again. Presently the
                        silence was broken by a sharp cry of despair:
                    "Have pity! Oh, God" moaned the voice that sent thrills through his bodythe
                        voice of a woman, tender, refined, crushed. His fingers gripped the revolver
                        with fresh vigor, but almost instantly the rustling of dead leaves reached
                        his ears: the man and his victim were making their way toward the house.
                    
                    Bonner crouched among the bushes as if paralysed. He began to comprehend the
                        situation. In a vague sort of way he remembered hearing of Tinkletown's
                        sensation over at his uncle's house, where he was living with a couple of
                        servants for a month's shooting. The atmosphere had been full of the
                        sensational abduction story for several daysthe abduction of a beautiful
                        young woman and the helpless attitude of the relatives and friends. Like a
                        whirlwind the whole situation spread itself before him; it left him weak. He
                        had come upon the gang and their victim in this out-of-the-way corner of the
                        world, far from the city toward which they were supposed to have fled. He
                        had the solution in his hands and he was filled with the fire of the
                        ancients.
                    A light appeared in the low doorway and the squat figure of a man held a
                        lantern on high. An instant later, another man dragged the helpless girl
                        across the threshold and into the house. Even as Bonner squared himself to
                        rush down upon them the light disappeared and darkness fell over the cabin.
                        There was a sound of footsteps on the floor, a creaking of hinges and the
                        stealthy closing of a door. Then there was absolute quiet.
                    Bonner was wise as well as brave. He saw that to rush down upon the house now
                        might prove his own as well as her undoing. In the darkness, the bandits
                        would have every advantage. For a moment he glared at the black shadow
                        ahead, his brain working like lightning.
                    "That poor girl!" he muttered vaguely. "Damn 
                        beasts! But I'll fix 'em, by heaven! It won't be long, my boys."
                    His pondering brought quick results. Crawling to Bud's cot, he aroused him
                        from a deep sleep. Inside of two minutes the lad was streaking off through
                        the woods toward town, with instructions to bring Anderson Crow and a large
                        force of men to the spot as quickly as possible.
                    "I'll stand guard," said Wicker Bonner.
                    As the minutes went by Bonner's thoughts dwelt more and more intently upon
                        the poor, imprisoned girl in the cabin. His blood charged his reason and he
                        could scarce control the impulse to dash in upon the wretches. Then he
                        brought himself up with a jerk. Where was he to find them? Had he not
                        searched the house that morning and was there a sign of life to be found? He
                        was stunned by this memory. For many minutes he stood with his perplexed
                        eyes upon the house before a solution came to him.
                    He now knew that there was a secret apartment in the old house and a secret
                        means of entrance and exit. With this explanation firmly impressed upon his
                        mind, Wicker Bonner decided to begin his own campaign for the liberation of
                        Rosalie Gray. It would be hours before the sluggish Anderson Crow appeared;
                        and Bonner was not the sort to leave a woman in jeopardy if it was in his
                        power to help her. Besides, the country people had filled him with stories
                        of Miss Gray's beauty, and they found him at an impressionable and
                        heart-free age. The thrill of romance seized him and he was ready to
                        dare.
                    
                    He crept up to the doorway and listened. Reason told him that the coast was
                        clear; the necessity for a sentinel did not exist, so cleverly were the
                        desperadoes under cover. After a few moments, he crawled into the room,
                        holding his breath, as he made his way toward the cellar staircase. He had
                        gone but a few feet when the sound of voices came to him. Slinking into a
                        corner, he awaited developments. The sounds came from below, but not from
                        the cellar room, as he had located it. A moment later, a man crawled into
                        the room, coming through a hole in the floor, just as he had suspected. A
                        faint light from below revealed the sinister figure plainly, but Bonner felt
                        himself to be quite thoroughly hidden. The man in the room spoke to some one
                        below.
                    "I'll be back in half an hour, Davy. I'll wait fer Sam out there on the
                        Point. He ought to have some news from headquarters by this time. I don't
                        see why we have to hang around this place forever. She ought to be half way
                        to Paris by now."
                    "They don't want to take chances, Bill, till the excitement blows over."
                    "Well, you an' your mother just keep your hands off of her while I'm out,
                        that's all," warned Bill Briggs.
                    The trap-door was closed, and Bonner heard the other occupant of the room
                        shuffle out into the night. He was not long in deciding what to do. Here was
                        the chance to dispose of one of the bandits, and he was not slow to seize
                        it. There was a meeting in the thicket a few minutes later, and Bill was
                        "out of the  way" for the time being. Wicker
                        Bonner dropped him with a sledge-hammer blow, and when he returned to the
                        cabin Bill was lying bound and gagged in the tent, a helpless captive.
                    His conqueror, immensely satisfied, supplied himself with the surplus ends of
                        "guy ropes" from the tent and calmly sat down to await the approach of the
                        one called Sam, he who had doubtless gone to a rendezvous "for news." He
                        could well afford to bide his time. With two of the desperadoes disposed of
                        in ambuscade, he could have a fairly even chance with the man called
                        Davy.
                    It seemed hours before he heard the stealthy approach of some one moving
                        through the bushes. He was stiff with cold, and chafing at the interminable
                        delay, but the approach of real danger quickened his blood once more. There
                        was another short, sharp, silent struggle near the doorway, and once more
                        Wicker Bonner stood victorious over an unsuspecting and now unconscious
                        bandit. Sam, a big, powerful man, was soon bound and gagged and his bulk
                        dragged off to the tent among the bushes.
                    "Now for Davy," muttered Bonner, stretching his great arms in the pure relish
                        of power. "There will be something doing around your heart, Miss
                        Babe-in-the-Woods, in a very few minutes."
                    He chuckled as he crept into the cabin, first having listened intently for
                        sounds. For some minutes he lay quietly with his ear to the floor. In that
                        time he solved one of the problems confronting him. The man Davy was a son
                        of old Mrs. Rank's murderer,  and the "old
                        woman" who kept watch with him was his mother, wife of the historic David.
                        It was she who had held the lantern, no doubt, while David Wolfe chopped her
                        own mother to mincemeat. This accounted for the presence of the gang in the
                        haunted house and for their knowledge of the underground room.
                    Bonner's inspiration began to wear off. Pure luck had aided him up to this
                        stage, but the bearding of David in his lair was another proposition
                        altogether. His only hope was that he might find the man asleep. He was not
                        taking the old woman into consideration at all. Had he but known it, she was
                        the most dangerous of all.
                    His chance, he thought, lay in strategy. It was impossible to open the
                        trap-door from above, he had found by investigation. There was but one way
                        to get to Miss Gray, and that was by means of a daring ruse. Trusting to
                        luck, he tapped gently on the floor at the spot where memory told him the
                        trapdoor was situated. His heart was thumping violently.
                    There was a movement below him, and then the sound of some one handling the
                        bolts in the door. Bonner drew back, hoping against hope that a light would
                        not be shown. In one hand he held his revolver ready for use; in the other
                        his heavy walking stick. His plans were fully developed. After a moment the
                        trap was lifted partially and a draft of warm air came out upon him.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXII
                    Jack, the Giant Killer
                    "THAT you, Sam?" half whispered a man's voice. There was
                        no light.
                    "Sh!" hissed Bonner, muffling his voice. "Is everybody in?"
                    "Bill's waitin' fer you outside. Ma an' me are here. Come on down. What's
                        up?"
                    "How's the girl?"
                    "Bellerin' like a baby. Ma's with her in the cave. Hurry up! This thing's
                        heavy."
                    For reply Bonner seized the edge of the door with his left hand, first
                        pushing his revolver in his trousers' pocket. Then he silently swung the
                        heavy cane through the air and downward, a very faint light from below
                        revealing the shock head of Davy in the aperture. It was a mighty blow and
                        true. Davy's body fell away from the trap, and a second later Bonner's
                        dropped through the hole. He left the trap wide open in case retreat were
                        necessary. Pausing long enough to assure himself that the man was
                        unconscious and bleeding profusely, and to snatch the big revolver from
                        Davy's person, Bonner turned his attention to the surroundings.
                    Perhaps a hundred feet away, at the end of a long, low passage, he saw the
                        glimmer of a light. Without a second's hesitation he started toward it,
                        feeling  that the worst of the adventure was
                        past. A shadow coming between him and the light, he paused in his approach.
                        This shadow resolved itself into the form of a woman, a gigantic creature,
                        who peered intently up the passage.
                    "What's the matter, Davy?" she called in raucous tones. "You damn fool, can't
                        you do anything without breaking your neck? I reckon you fell down the
                        steps? That you, Sam?"
                    Receiving no answer, the woman clutched the lantern and advanced boldly upon
                        Bonner, who stood far down the passage, amazed and irresolute. She looked
                        more formidable to him than any of the men, so he prepared for a
                        struggle.
                    "Halt!" he cried, when she was within ten feet of him. "Don't resist; you are
                        surrounded!"
                    The woman stopped like one shot, glared ahead as if she saw him for the first
                        time, and then uttered a frightful shriek of rage. Dashing the lantern to
                        the ground, she raised her arm and fired a revolver point blank at Bonner,
                        despite the fact that his pistol was covering her. He heard the bullet crash
                        into the rotten timbers near his ear. Contrary to her design, the lantern
                        was not extinguished. Instead, it lay sputtering but effective upon the
                        floor.
                    Before Bonner could make up his mind to shoot at the woman she was upon him,
                        firing again as she came. He did not have time to retaliate. The huge frame
                        crushed down upon him and his pistol flew from his hand. As luck would have
                        it, his free hand clutched her revolver, and she was prevented from  blowing his brains out with the succeeding
                        shots, all of which went wild.
                    
                    Then came a desperate struggle. Bonner, a trained athlete, realised that she
                        was even stronger than he, more desperate in her frenzy, and with murder in
                        her heart. As they lunged to and fro, her curses and  shrieks in his ear, he began to feel the despair of defeat.
                        She was beating him down with one mighty arm, crushing blows, every one of
                        them. Then came the sound which turned the tide of battle, for it filled him
                        with a frenzy equal to her own. The scream of a woman came down through the
                        passage, piteous, terror-stricken.
                    He knew the fate of that poor girl if his adversary overcame him. The thought
                        sent his blood hot and cold at once. Infuriatedly, he exerted his fine
                        strength, and the tide turned. Panting and snarling, the big woman was
                        battered down. He flung her heavily to the ground and then leaped back to
                        pick up his revolver, expecting a renewal of the attack. For the first time
                        he was conscious of intense pain in his left leg. The woman made a violent
                        effort to rise, and then fell back, groaning and cursing.
                    "You've done it! You've got me!" she yelled.
                    "My leg's broke!" Then she shrieked for Davy and Bill and Sam, raining curses
                        upon the law and upon the traitor who had been their undoing.
                    Bonner, his own leg wobbling and covered with blood, tried to quiet her, but
                        without success. He saw that she was utterly helpless, her leg twisted under
                        her heavy body. Her screams of pain as he turned her over proved
                        conclusively that she was not shamming. Her hip was dislocated. The young
                        man had sense enough left to return to Davy before venturing into the cave
                        where Miss Gray was doubtless in a dead faint. The man was breathing, but
                        still unconscious from the blow on the head. Bonner  quickly tied his hands and feet, guarding against emergencies
                        in case of his own incapacitation as the result of the bullet wound in his
                        leg; then he hobbled off with the lantern past the groaning Amazon in quest
                        of Rosalie Gray. It did not occur to him until afterward that single handed
                        he had overcome a most desperate band of criminals, so simply had it all
                        worked out up to the time of the encounter with the woman.
                    A few yards beyond where the old woman lay moaning he came upon the cave in
                        which the bandits made their home. Holding the lantern above his head,
                        Bonner peered eagerly into the cavern. In the farthest corner crouched a
                        girl, her terror-struck eyes fastened upon the stranger.
                    "How do you do, Miss Gray," came the cheery greeting from his lips. She
                        gasped, swept her hand over her eyes, and tried piteously to speak. The
                        words would not come. "The long-prayed-for rescue has come. You are freethat
                        is, as soon as we find our way out of this place. Let me introduce myself as
                        Jack, the Giant Killerhello! Don't do that! Oh, the devil!" She had toppled
                        over in a dead faint.
                    How Wicker Bonner, with his wounded leg, weak from loss of blood, and faint
                        from the reaction, carried her from the cave through the passage and the
                        trap-door and into the tent can only be imagined, not described. He only
                        knew that it was necessary to remove her from the place, and that his
                        strength would soon be gone. The sun was tinting the east  before she opened her eyes and shuddered. In
                        the meantime he had stanched the flow of blood in the fleshy part of his
                        leg, binding the limb tightly with a piece of rope. It was an ugly, glancing
                        cut made by a bullet of large calibre, and it was sure to put him on
                        crutches for some time to come. Even now he was scarcely able to move the
                        member. For an hour he had been venting his wrath upon the sluggish Anderson
                        Crow, who should have been on the scene long before this. Two of his
                        captives, now fully conscious, were glaring at their companions in the tent
                        with hate in their eyes.
                    Rosalie Gray, wan, dishevelled, but more beautiful than the reports had
                        foretold, could not at first believe herself to be free from the clutches of
                        the bandits. It took him many minutesmany painful minutesto convince her
                        that it was not a dream, and that in truth he was Wicker Bonner, gentleman.
                        Sitting with his back against a tent pole, facing the cabin through the
                        flap, with a revolver in his trembling hand, he told her of the night's
                        adventures, and was repaid tenfold by the gratitude which shone from her
                        eyes and trembled in her voice. In return she told him of her capture, of
                        the awful experiences in the cave, and of the threats which had driven her
                        almost to the end of endurance.
                    "Oh, oh, I could love you forever for this!" she cried in the fulness of her
                        joy. A rapturous smile flew to Bonner's eyes.
                    "Forever begins with this instant, Miss Gray," he said; and without any
                        apparent reason the two shook  hands.
                        Afterward they were to think of this trivial act and vow that it was truly
                        the beginning. They were young, heart-free, and full of the romance of
                        life.
                    "And those awful men are really capturedand the woman?" she cried, after
                        another exciting recital from him. Sam and Bill fairly snarled. "Suppose
                        they should get loose?" Her eyes grew wide with the thought of it.
                    "They can't," he said laconically. "I wish the marshal and his bicycle army
                        would hurry along. That woman and Davy need attention. I'd hate like the
                        mischief to have either of them die. One doesn't want to kill people, you
                        know, Miss Gray."
                    "But they were killing me by inches," she protested.
                    "Ouch!" he groaned, his leg giving him a mighty twinge.
                    "What is it?" she cried in alarm. "Why should we wait for those men? Come,
                        Mr. Bonner, take me to the villageplease do. I am crazy, absolutely crazy,
                        to see Daddy Crow and mother. I can walk therehow far is it?please come."
                        She was running on eagerly in this strain until she saw the look of pain in
                        his facethe look he tried so hard to conceal. She was standing straight and
                        strong and eager before him, and he was very pale under the tan.
                    "I can't, Miss Gray. I'm sorry, you know. See! Where there's smoke there's
                        fireI mean, where there's blood there's a wound. I'm done for, in other
                        words."
                    "Done for? Oh, you're notnot going to die!
                    
                    Are you hurt? Why didn't you tell me?" Whereupon she dropped to her knees at
                        his side, her dark eyes searching his intently, despair in them until the
                        winning smile struggled back into his. The captives chuckled audibly. "What
                        can Iwhat shall I do? Oh, why don't those men come! It must be noon or"
                    "It's barely six A.M., Miss Gray. Don't worry. I'm all right. A cut in my
                        leg; the old woman plugged me. I can't walk, you knowbut"
                    "And you carried me out here and did all that and never said a word aboutoh,
                        how good and brave and noble you are!"
                    When Anderson Crow and half of Tinkletown, routed out en
                            masse by Bud, appeared on the scene an hour or two later, they
                        found Wicker Bonner stretched out on a mattress, his head in Rosalie's lap.
                        The young woman held his revolver in her hand, and there was a look in her
                        face which said that she would shoot any one who came to molest her charge.
                        Two helpless desperadoes lay cursing in the corner of the tent.
                    Anderson Crow, after an hour of deliberation and explanation, fell upon the
                        bound and helpless bandits and bravely carted the whole lot to the town
                        "calaboose." Wicker Bonner and his nurse were taken into town, and the news
                        of the rescue went flying over the county, and eventually to the four
                        corners of the land, for Congressman Bonner's nephew was a person of
                        prominence.
                    Bonner, as he passed up the main street in Peabody's  sleigh on the way to Anderson Crow's home, was the centre of
                        attraction. He was the hero of the hour, for was not Rosalie Gray herself,
                        pale and ill with torture, his most devoted slave? What else could
                        Tinkletown do but pay homage when it saw Bonner's head against her shoulder
                        and Anderson Crow shouting approval from the bob-sled that carried the
                        kidnapers. The four bandits, two of them much the worse for the night's
                        contact with Wicker Bonner, were bundled into the lock-up, a sadly morose
                        gang of ghosts.
                    "I owe you a thousand dollars," said Anderson to Bonner as they drew up in
                        front of the marshal's home. All Tinkletown was there to see how Mrs. Crow
                        and the family would act when Rosalie was restored to them. The yard was
                        full of gaping villagers, and there was a diffident cheer when Mrs. Crow
                        rushed forth and fairly dragged Rosalie from the sleigh. "Blootch" Peabody
                        gallantly interposed and undertook to hand the girl forth with the grace of
                        a Chesterfield. But Mrs. Crow had her way.
                    "I'll take it out in board and lodging," grinned Wicker Bonner to Anderson as
                        two strong men lifted him from the sleigh.
                    "Where's Bud?" demanded Anderson after the others had entered the house.
                    "He stayed down to the 'calaboose' to guard the prisoners," said "Blootch."
                        "Nobody could find the key to the door and nobody else would stay. They
                        ain't locked in, but Bud's got two revolvers, and he says they can only
                        escape over his dead body."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIII
                    Tinkletown's Convulsion
                    ANDERSON CROW was himself once more. He
                        was twenty years younger than when he went to bed the night before. His joy
                        and pride had reached the bursting pointdignity alone prevented the
                        catastrophe.
                    "What do you expect to do with the gang, Mr. Crow?" asked Bonner, reclining
                        with amiable ease in the marshal's Morris chair. He was feeling very
                        comfortable, despite "Doc" Smith's stitches; and he could not help
                        acknowledging, with more or less of a glow in his heart, that it was nice to
                        play hero to such a heroine.
                    "Well, I'll protect 'em, of course. Nobody c'n lynch 'em while I'm marshal of
                        this town," Anderson said, forgetful of the fact that he had not been near
                        the jail, where Master Bud still had full charge of affairs, keyless but
                        determined. "I'll have to turn them over to the county sheriff to-day er
                        to-morrow, I reckon. This derned old calaboose of ourn ain't any too safe.
                        That's a mighty desperit gang we've captured. I cain't remember havin' took
                        sech a mob before."
                    "Has it occurred to you, Mr. Crow, that we have captured only the hirelings?
                        Their employer, whoever he or she may be, is at large and probably laughing
                             at us. Isn't there some way in which we
                        can follow the case up and land the leader?"
                    "'y Gosh, you're right," said Anderson. "I thought of that this mornin', but
                        it clean skipped my mind since then. There's where the mistake was made, Mr.
                        Bonner. It's probably too late now. You'd oughter thought about the leader.
                        Seems to me"
                    "Why, Daddy Crow," cried Rosalie, a warm flush in her cheeks once more,
                        "hasn't Mr. Bonner done his part? Hasn't he taken them single-handed and
                        hasn't he saved me from worse than death?"
                    "I ain't castin' any insinyations at him, Rosalie," retorted Anderson, very
                        sternly for him. "How can you talk like that?"
                    "I'm not offended, Miss Gray," laughed Bonner.
                    "We all make mistakes. It has just occurred to me, however, that Mr. Crow may
                        still be able to find out who the leader is. The prisoners can be pumped, I
                        dare say."
                    "You're right ag'in, Mr. Bonner. It's funny how you c'n read my thoughts. I
                        was jest goin' down to the jail to put 'em through the sweat cell."
                    "Sweat cell? You mean sweat box, Mr. Crow," said Bonner, laughing in spite of
                        himself.
                    "No, sir; it's a cell. We couldn't find a box big enough. I use the cell
                        reserved fer women prisoners. Mebby some day the town board will put in a
                        reg'lar box, but, so far, the cell has done all right. I'll be back 'bout
                        supper-time, Eva. You take keer o' Rosalie. Make her sleep a while an' I
                        guess you'd better dose her up a bit with quinine an'"
                    
                    "I guess I know what to give her, Anderson Crow," resented his wife. "Go
                        'long with you. You'd oughter been lookin' after them kidnapers three hours
                        ago. I bet Bud's purty nigh wore out guardin' them. He's been there ever
                        sence nine o'clock, an' it's half-past two now."
                    "Roscoe's helpin' him," muttered Anderson, abashed.
                    At that instant there came a rush of footsteps across the front porch and in
                        burst Ed Higgins and "Blootch" Peabody, fairly gasping with excitement.
                    "Hurry up, Andersondown to the jail," sputtered the former; and then he was
                        gone like the wind. "Blootch," determined to miss nothing, whirled to
                        follow, or pass him if possible. He had time to shout over his shoulder as
                        he went forth without closing the door:
                    "The old woman has lynched herself!"
                    It would now be superfluous to remark, after all the convulsions Tinkletown
                        had experienced inside of twenty-four hours, that the populace went
                        completely to pieces in face of this last trying experiment of Fate. With
                        one accord the village toppled over as if struck by a broadside and lay,
                        figuratively speaking, writhing in its own gore. Stupefaction assailed the
                        town. Then one by one the minds of the people scrambled up from the ashes,
                        slowly but surely, only to wonder where lightning would strike next. Not
                        since the days of the American Revolution had the town experienced such an
                        incessant rush of incident. The Judgment Day itself, with Gabriel's clarion
                             blasts, could not be expected to surpass
                        this productive hour in thrills.
                    It was true that old Maude had committed suicide in the calaboose. She had
                        been placed on a cot in the office of the prison and Dr. Smith had been sent
                        for, immediately after her arrival; but he was making a call in the country.
                        Bud Long, supported by half a dozen boys armed with Revolutionary muskets,
                        which would not go off unless carried, stood in front of the little jail
                        with its wooden walls and iron bars, guarding the prisoners zealously. The
                        calaboose was built to hold tramps and drunken men, but not for the purpose
                        of housing desperadoes. Even as the heroic Bud watched with persevering
                        faithfulness, his charges were planning to knock their prison to smithereens
                        and at the proper moment escape to the woods and hills. They knew the grated
                        door was unlocked, but they imagined the place to be completely surrounded
                        by vengeful villagers, who would cut them down like rats if they ventured
                        forth. Had they but known that Bud was alone, it is quite likely they would
                        have sallied forth and relieved him of his guns, spanked him soundly and
                        then ambled off unmolested to the country.
                    All the morning old Maude had been groaning and swearing in the office, where
                        she lay unattended. Bud was telling his friends how he had knocked her down
                        twice in the cave, after she had shot six times and slashed at him with her
                        dagger, when a sudden cessation of groans from the interior attracted the
                        attention of all. "Doc" Smith arrived at that juncture  and found the boys listening intently for a resumption of the
                        picturesque profanity. It was some time before the crowd became large enough
                        to inspire a visit to the interior of the calaboose. As became his dignity,
                        Bud led the way.
                    The old woman, unable to endure the pain any longer, and knowing full well
                        that her days were bound to end in prison, had managed, in some way, to hang
                        herself from a window bar beside her bed, using a twisted bed sheet. She was
                        quite dead when "Doc" made the examination. A committee of the whole started
                        at once to notify Anderson Crow. For a minute it looked as though the jail
                        would be left entirely unguarded, but Bud loyally returned to his post,
                        reinforced by Roscoe and the doctor.
                    Upon Mr. Crow's arrival at the jail, affairs assumed some aspect of order. He
                        first locked the grate doors, thereby keeping the fiery David from coming
                        out to see his mother before they cut her down. A messenger was sent for the
                        coroner at Boggs City, and then the big body was released from its last
                        hanging place.
                    "Doggone, but this is a busy day fer me!" said Anderson. "I won't have time
                        to pump them fellers till this evenin'. But I guess they'll keep. What's
                        that, Blootch?"
                    "I was just goin' to ask Bud if they're still in there," said Blootch.
                    "Are they, Bud?" asked Anderson in quick alarm.
                    "Sure," replied Bud with a mighty swelling of the chest. Even Blootch envied
                        him.
                    
                    "She's been dead jest an hour an' seven minutes," observed Anderson, gingerly
                        touching the dead woman's wrist. "Doggone, I'm glad o' one thing!"
                    "What's that, Anderson?"
                    "We won't have to set her hip. Saved expense."
                    "But we'll have to bury her, like as not," said Isaac Porter.
                    "Yes," said Anderson reflectively. "She'll have to be buried. Butbut" and
                        here his face lightened up in relief"not fer a day er two; so what's the use
                        worryin'."
                    When the coroner arrived, soon after six o'clock, a jury was empanelled and
                        witnesses sworn. In ten minutes a verdict of suicide was returned and the
                        coroner was on his way back to Boggs City. He did not even know that a hip
                        had been dislocated. Anderson insisted upon a post-mortem examination, but
                        was laughed out of countenance by the officious M.D.
                    "I voted fer that fool last November," said Anderson wrathfully, as the
                        coroner drove off, "but you c'n kick the daylights out of me if I ever do it
                        ag'in. Look out there, Bud! What in thunder are you doin' with them pistols?
                        Doggone, ain't you got no sense? Pointin' 'em around that way. Why, you're
                        liable to shoot somebody"
                    "Aw, them ain't pistols," scoffed Bud, his mouth full of something. "They're
                        bologny sausages. I ain't had nothin' to eat sence last night and I'm
                        hungry."
                    "Well, it's dark out here," explained Anderson, suddenly shuffling into the
                        jail. "I guess I'll put them fellers through the sweat box."
                    
                    "The what?" demanded George Ray.
                    "The sweat-box b-o-x, box. Cain't you hear?"
                    "I thought you used a cell."
                    "Thunderation, no! Nobody but country jakes call it a cell," said Anderson in
                        fine scorn.
                    The three prisoners scowled at him so fiercely and snarled so vindictively
                        when they asked him if they were to be starved to death, that poor Anderson
                        hurried home and commanded his wife to pack "a baskit of bread and butter
                        an' things fer the prisoners." It was nine o'clock before he could make up
                        his mind to venture back to the calaboose with his basket. He spent the
                        intervening hours in telling Rosalie and Bonner about the shocking incident
                        at the jail and in absorbing advice from the clear-headed young man from
                        Boston.
                    "I'd like to go with you to see those fellows, Mr. Crow," was Bonner's rueful
                        lament. "But the doctor says I must be quiet until this confounded thing
                        heals a bit. Together, I think we could bluff the whole story out of those
                        scoundrels."
                    "Oh, never you fear," said the marshal; "I'll learn all there is to be
                        learnt. You jest ask Alf Reesling what kind of a pumper I am."
                    "Who is Alf Reesling?"
                    "Ain't you heerd of him in Boston? Why, every temperance lecturer that comes
                        here says he's the biggest drunkard in the world. I supposed his reputation
                        had got to Boston by this time. He's been sober only once in twenty-five
                        years."
                    "Is it possible?"
                    
                    "That was when his wife died. He said he felt so good it wasn't necessary to
                        get drunk. Well, I'll tell you all about it when I come back. Don't worry no
                        more, Rosalie. I'll find out who's back of this business an' then we'll know
                        all about you. It's a long lane that has no turn."
                    "Them prisoners must be mighty near starved to death by this time, Anderson,"
                        warned Mrs. Crow.
                    "Doggone, that's so!" he cried, and hustled out into the night.
                    The calaboose was almost totally darkquite so, had it not been for the single
                        lamp that burned in the office where the body of the old woman was lying.
                        Two or three timid citizens stood afar off, in front of Thompson's feed
                        yard, looking with awe upon the dungeon keep. Anderson's footsteps grew
                        slower and more halting as they approached the entrance to the forbidding
                        square of black. The snow creaked resoundingly under his heels and the chill
                        wind nipped his muffless ears with a spitefulness that annoyed. In fact, he
                        became so incensed, that he set his basket down and slapped his ears
                        vigorously for some minutes before resuming his slow progress. He hated the
                        thought of going in where the dead woman lay.
                    Suddenly he made up his mind that a confession from the men would be
                        worthless unless he had ear witnesses to substantiate it in court. Without
                        further deliberation, he retraced his steps hurriedly to Lamson's store,
                        where, after half an hour's conversation on the topics of the day, he
                        deputised the entire crowd to accompany him to the jail.
                    
                    "Where's Bud?" he demanded sharply.
                    "Home in bed, poor child," said old Mr. Borton.
                    "Well, doggone his ornery hide, why ain't he here to" began Anderson, but
                        checked himself in time to prevent the crowd from seeing that he expected
                        Bud to act as leader in the expedition. "I wanted him to jot down notes," he
                        substituted. Editor Squires volunteered to act as secretary, prompter,
                        interpreter, and everything else that his scoffing tongue could utter.
                    "Well, go ahead, then," said Anderson, pushing him forward. Harry led the
                        party down the dark street with more rapidity than seemed necessary; few in
                        the crowd could keep pace with him. A majority fell hopelessly behind, in
                        fact.
                    Straight into the office walked Harry, closely followed by Blootch and the
                        marshal. Maude, looking like a monument of sheets, still occupied the centre
                        of the floor. Without a word, the party filed past the gruesome, silent
                        thing and into the jail corridor. It was as dark as Erebus in the barred
                        section of the prison; a cold draft of air flew into the faces of the
                        visitors.
                    "Come here, you fellers!" called Anderson bravely into the darkness; but
                        there was no response from the prisoners.
                    For the very good reason that some hours earlier they had calmly removed a
                        window from its moorings and by this time were much too far away to answer
                        questions.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIV
                    The Flight of the Kidnapers
                    SEARCHING parties were organised and sent out to scour the
                        country, late as it was. Swift riders gave the alarm along every roadway,
                        and the station agent telegraphed the news into every section of the land.
                        At Boggs City, the sheriff, berating Anderson Crow for a fool and Tinkletown
                        for an open-air lunatic asylum, sent his deputies down to assist in the
                        pursuit. The marshal himself undertook to lead each separate and distinct
                        posse. He was so overwhelmed by the magnitude of his misfortune that it is
                        no wonder his brain whirled widely enough to encompass the whole
                        enterprise.
                    Be it said to the credit of Tinkletown, her citizens made every reasonable
                        effort to recapture the men. The few hundred able-bodied men of the town
                        rallied to the support of their marshal and the law, and there was not one
                        who refused to turn out in the cold night air for a sweeping search of the
                        woods and fields.
                    Rosalie, who had been awakened early in the evening by Mr. Crow's noisy
                        preparations for the pursuit, came downstairs, and instantly lost all desire
                        to sleep. Bonner was lying on a couch in the "sitting-room," which now
                        served as a temporary bed-chamber.
                    
                    "If you'll just hand me those revolvers, Mr. Crow," said he, indicating the
                        two big automatics he had taken from Davy and Bill, "I'll stand guard over
                        the house as best I can while you're away."
                    "Stand guard? What fer? Nobody's goin' to steal the house."
                    "We should not forget that these same rascals may take it into their heads to
                        double on their tracks and try to carry Miss Gray away again. With her in
                        their possession they'll receive their pay; without her their work will have
                        been for nothing. It is a desperate crowd, and they may think the plan at
                        least worth trying."
                    Rosalie's grateful, beaming glance sent a quiver that was not of pain through
                        Bonner's frame.
                    "Don't worry about that," said the marshal.
                    "We'll have 'em shot to pieces inside of an hour an' a half."
                    "Anderson, I want you to be very careful with that horse pistol," said his
                        wife nervously. "It ain't been shot off sence the war, an' like as not it'll
                        kill you from behind."
                    "Gosh blast it, Eva!" roared Anderson, "don't you suppose I know which end to
                        shoot with?" And away he rushed in great dudgeon.
                    Edna Crow sat at the front window, keeping watch for hours. She reported to
                        the other members of the household as each scurrying band of searchers
                        passed the place. Bonner commanded Rosalie to keep away from the windows,
                        fearing a shot from the outside. From time to time Roscoe replenished  the big blaze in the fireplace. It was cosey
                        in the old-fashioned sitting-room, even though the strain upon its occupants
                        was trying in the extreme.
                    Great excitement came to them when the figure of a man was seen to drop to
                        the walk near the front gate. At first it was feared that one of the
                        bandits, injured by pursuers, had fallen to die, but the mournful calls for
                        help that soon came from the sidewalk were more or less reassuring. The
                        prostrate figure had a queer habit from time to time of raising itself high
                        enough to peer between the pickets of the fence, and each succeeding shout
                        seemed more vigorous than the others. Finally they became impatient, and
                        then full of wrath. It was evident that the stranger resented the
                        inhospitality of the house.
                    "Who are you?" called Edna, opening the window ever so slightly. Whereupon
                        the man at the gate sank to the ground and groaned with splendid misery.
                    "It's me," he replied.
                    "Who's me?"
                    " 'Rast'Rast Little. I think I'm dyin'."
                    There was a hurried consultation indoors, and then Roscoe bravely ventured
                        out to the sidewalk.
                    "Are you shot, 'Rast?" he asked in trembling tones.
                    "No; I'm just wounded. Is Rosalie in there?"
                    "Yep. She's"
                    "I guess I'll go in, then. Dern it! It's a long walk from our house over
                        here. I guess I'll stay all night. If I don't get better to-morrow I'll have
                        to stay longer. I ought to be nursed, too."
                    "Rosalie's playin' nurse fer Mr. Bonner," volunteered  Roscoe, still blocking the gate through which 'Rast was trying
                        to wedge himself.
                    "Mr. who?"
                    "Bonner."
                    "Well," said 'Rast after a moment's consideration, " he ought to be moved to
                        a hospital. Lemme lean on you, Roscoe. I can't hardly walk, my arm hurts
                        so."
                    Mr. Little, with his bandages and his hobble, had joined in the expedition,
                        and was not to be deterred until faintness overcame him and he dropped by
                        the wayside. He was taken in and given a warm chair before the fire. One
                        long look at Bonner and the newcomer lapsed into a stubborn pout. He groaned
                        occasionally and made much ado over his condition, but sourly resented any
                        approach at sympathy. Finally he fell asleep in the chair, his last speech
                        being to the effect that he was going home early in the morning if he had to
                        drag himself every foot of the way. Plainly, 'Rast had forgotten Miss Banks
                        in the sudden revival of affection for Rosalie Gray. The course of true love
                        did not run smoothly in Tinkletown.
                    The searchers straggled in empty handed. Early morning found most of them
                        asleep at their homes, tucked away by thankful wives, and with the promises
                        of late breakfasts. The next day business was slow in asserting its claim
                        upon public attention. Masculine Tinkletown dozed while femininity chattered
                        to its heart's content. There was much to talk about and more to anticipate.
                        The officials in all counties contiguous had out their dragnets, and word
                        was expected  at any time that the fugitives
                        had fallen into their hands.
                    But not that day, nor the next, nor any day, in fact, did news come of their
                        capture, so Tinkletown was obliged to settle back into a state of
                        tranquility. Some little interest was aroused when the town board ordered
                        the calaboose repaired, and there was a ripple of excitement attached to the
                        funeral of the only kidnaper in captivity. It was necessary to postpone the
                        oyster supper at the Methodist Church, but there was some consolation in the
                        knowledge that it would soon be summer-time and the benighted Africans would
                        not need the money for winter clothes. The reception at the minister's house
                        was a fizzle. He was warned in time, however, and it was his own fault that
                        he received no more than a jug of vinegar, two loaves of bread and a pound
                        of honey as the result of his expectations. It was the first time that a
                        "pound" party had proven a losing enterprise.
                    Anderson Crow maintained a relentless search for the desperadoes. He refused
                        to accept Wicker Bonner's theory that they were safe in the city of New
                        York. It was his own opinion that they were still in the neighbourhood,
                        waiting for a chance to exhume the body of Davy's mother and make off with
                        it.
                    "Don't try to tell me, Mr. Bonner, that even a raskil like him hasn't any
                        love fer his mother," he contended. "Davy may not be much of a model, but he
                        had a feelin' fer the woman who bore him, an' don't you fergit it."
                    
                    "Why, Daddy Crow, he was the most heartless brute in the world!" cried
                        Rosalie. "I've seen him knock her down more than onceand kick her, too."
                    "A slip of the memory, that's all. He was probably thinkin' of his wife, if
                        he has one."
                    At a public meeting the town board was condemned for its failure to
                        strengthen the jail at the time Anderson made his demand three years
                        before.
                    "What's the use in me catchin' thieves, and so forth, if the jail won't hold
                        'em?" Anderson declared. "I cain't afford to waste time in runnin' desperite
                        characters down if the town board ain't goin' to obstruct 'em from gittin'
                        away as soon as the sun sits. What's the use, I'd like to know? Where's the
                        justice? I don't want it to git noised aroun' that the on'y way we c'n hold
                        a prisoner is to have him commit suicide as soon as he's arrested. Fer two
                        cents I'd resign right now."
                    Of course no one would hear to that. As a result, nearly five hundred dollars
                        was voted from the corporation funds to strengthen and modernise the
                        "calaboose." It was the sense of the meeting that a "sweat box" should be
                        installed under Mr. Crow's supervision, and that the marshal's salary should
                        be increased fifty dollars a year. After the adoption of this popular
                        resolution Mr. Crow arose and solemnly informed the people that their faith
                        in him was not misplaced. He threw the meeting into a state of great
                        excitement by announcing that the kidnapers would soon be in the toils once
                        more. In response to eager queries he merely stated that he had a valuable
                            
                        
                            "LEFT THE YOUNG MAN TO THE CARE OF AN EXCELLENT
                                    NURSE"
                        
                         clew, which could not be divulged without
                        detriment to the cause. Everybody went home that night with the assurance
                        that the fugitives would soon be taken. Anderson promised the town board
                        that he would not take them until the jail was repaired.
                    It was almost a fortnight before Wicker Bonner was able to walk about with
                        crutches. The wound in his leg was an ugly one and healed slowly. His uncle,
                        the Congressman, sent up a surgeon from New York, but that worthy approved
                        of "Doc" Smith's methods, and abruptly left the young man to the care of an
                        excellent nurse, Rosalie Gray. Congressman Bonner's servants came over every
                        day or two with books, newspapers, sweetmeats, and fresh supplies from the
                        city, but it was impossible for them to get any satisfaction from the young
                        man in reply to their inquiries as to when he expected to return to the big
                        house across the river. Bonner was beginning to hate the thought of giving
                        up Rosalie's readings, her ministrations, and the no uncertain development
                        of his own opinions as to her personal attractiveness.
                    "I don't know when I'll be able to walk, Watkins," he said to the caretaker.
                        "I'm afraid my heart is affected."
                    Bonner's enforced presence at Anderson Crow's home was the source of extreme
                        annoyance to the young men of the town. "Blootch" Peabody created a
                        frightful scandal by getting boiling drunk toward the end of the week, so
                        great was his dejection. As it was his first real spree, he did not recover
                        from the effect for three days. He then took the pledge,  and talked about the evils of strong drink
                        with so much feeling at prayer meeting that the women of the town
                        inaugurated a movement to stop the sale of liquor in the town. As Peabody's
                        drug store was the only place where whiskey could be obtained, "Blootch"
                        soon saw the error of his ways and came down from his pedestal to mend
                            them.
                    
                    Bonner was a friend in need to Anderson Crow. The two were in consultation
                        half of the time, and the young man's opinions were not to be disregarded.
                        He advanced a theory concerning the motives of the leader in the plot to
                        send Rosalie into an exile from which she was not expected to return. It was
                        his belief that the person who abandoned her as a babe was actuated by the
                        desire to possess a fortune which should have been the child's. The
                        conditions attending the final disposition of this fortune doubtless were
                        such as to make it unwise to destroy the girl's life. The plotter, whatever
                        his or her relation to the child may have been, must have felt that a time
                        might come  when the existence of the real
                        heiress would be necessary. Either such a fear was the inspiration or the
                        relationship was so dear that the heart of the archplotter was full of love
                        for the innocent victim.
                    "Who is to say, Miss Gray," said Bonner one night as they sat before the
                        fire, "that the woman who left you with Mr. Crow was not your own mother?
                        Suppose that a vast estate was to be yours in trust after the death of some
                        rich relative, say grandparent. It would naturally mean that some one else
                        resented this bequest, and probably with some justice. The property was to
                        become your own when you attained a certain age, let us say. Don't you see
                        that the day would rob the disinherited person of every hope to retain the
                        fortune? Even a mother might be tempted, for ambitious reasons, to go to
                        extreme measures to secure the fortune for herself. Or she might have been
                        influenced by a will stronger than her ownthe will of an unscrupulous man.
                        There are many contingencies, all probable, as you choose to analyse
                        them."
                    "But why should this person wish to banish me from the country altogether? I
                        am no more dangerous here than I would be anywhere in Europe. And then think
                        of the means they would have employed to get me away from Tinkletown. Have I
                        not been lost to the world for years? Why"
                    "True; but I am quite convinced, and I think Mr. Crow agrees with me, that
                        the recent move was made necessary by the demands of one whose heart is not
                        interested, but whose hand wields the sceptre of power  over the love which tries to shield you. Any other would have
                        cut off your life at the beginning."
                    "That's my idee," agreed Anderson solemnly.
                    "I don't want the fortune!" cried Rosalie. "I am happy here! Why can't they
                        let me alone?"
                    "I tell you, Miss Gray, unless something happens to prevent it, that woman
                        will some day give you back your ownyour fortune and your name."
                    "I can't believe it, Mr. Bonner. "It is too much like a dream to me."
                    "Well, doggone it, Rosalie, dreams don't last forever!" broke in Anderson
                        Crow. "You've got to wake up some time, don't you see?"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXV
                    As the Heart Grows Older
                    BONNER'S eagerness to begin probing into the mystery grew
                        as his strength came back to him. He volunteered to interest his uncle in
                        the matter, and through him to begin a systematic effort to unravel the
                        tangled ends of Rosalie's life. Money was not to be spared; time and
                        intelligence were to be devoted to the cause. He knew that Rosalie was in
                        reality a creature of good birth and worthy of the name that any man might
                        seek to bestow upon hera name given in love by a man to the woman who would
                        share it with him forever.
                    The days and nights were teaching him the sacredness of a growing attachment.
                        He was not closing his eyes to the truth. It was quite as impossible for
                        big, worldly Wick Bonner to be near her and not fall a victim, as it was for
                        the crude, humble youth of Tinkletown. His heart was just as fragile as
                        theirs when it bared itself to her attack. Her beauty attracted him, her
                        natural refinement of character appealed to him; her pureness, her
                        tenderness, her goodness, wrought havoc with his impressions. Fresh, bright,
                        as clear-headed as the June sunshine, she was a revelation to himto Bonner,
                        who had known her sex in all its environments. His heart was full of her,
                        day and night; for day and night he was wondering  whether she could care for him as he knew he was coming to
                        care for her.
                    One day he received a telegram. It was from his mother and his sister, who
                        had just reached Boston from Bermuda, and it carried the brief though
                        emphatic information that they were starting to Tinkletown to nurse and care
                        for him. Bonner was thrown into a panic. He realised in the instant that it
                        would be impossible for them to come to Mr. Crow's home, and he knew they
                        could not be deceived as to his real condition. His mother would naturally
                        insist upon his going at once to Bonner Place, across the river, and on to
                        Boston as soon as he was able; his clever sister would see through his
                        motives like a flash of lightning. Young Mr. Bonner loved them, but he was
                        distinctly bored by the prospect of their coming. In some haste and
                        confusion, he sent for "Doc" Smith.
                    "Doctor, how soon will I be able to navigate?" he asked anxiously.
                    "Right now."
                    "You don't say so! I don't feel strong, you know."
                    "Well, your leg's doing well and all danger is past.
                    Of course, you won't be as spry as usual for some time, and you can't walk
                        without crutches, but I don't see any sense in your loafiing around here on
                        that account. You'd be safe to go at any time, Mr. Bonner."
                    "Look here, doctor, I'm afraid to change doctors. You've handled this case
                        mighty well, and if I went to some other chap, he might undo it all. I've
                        made up my mind to have you look out for me until this  wound is completely healed. That's all right, now. I know what
                        I'm talking about. I'll take no chances. How long will it be until it is
                        completely healed?"
                    "A couple of weeks, I suppose."
                    "Well, I'll stay right here and have you look at it every day. It's too
                        serious a matter for me to trifle with. By the way, my mother is coming up,
                        and I dare say she'll want me to go to Boston. Our family doctor is an old
                        fossil and I don't like to trust him with this thing. You'll be doing me a
                        favour, doctor, if you keep me here until I'm thoroughly well. I intend to
                        tell my mother that it will not be wise to move me until all danger of blood
                        poisoning is past."
                    "Blood poisoning? There's no danger now, sir."
                    "You never can tell," said Bonner sagely.
                    "But I'd be a perfect fool, Mr. Bonner, if there were still danger of that,"
                        complained the doctor. "What sort of a doctor would they consider me?"
                    "They'd certainly give you credit for being careful, and that's what appeals
                        to a mother, you know," said Bonner still more sagely. "Besides, it's my leg, doctor, and I'll have it treated my way. I think a
                        couple of weeks more under your care will put me straight. Mother has to
                        consider me, that's all. I wish you'd stop in to-morrow and change these
                        bandages, doctor; if you don't mind"
                    "Doc" Smith was not slow. He saw more than Bonner thought, so he winked to
                        himself as he crossed over to his office. At the corner he met Anderson
                        Crow.
                    
                    "Say, Anderson," he said, half chuckling, "that young Bonner has had a
                        relapse."
                    "Thunderation!"
                    "He can't be moved for a week or two."
                    "Will you have to cut it off?"
                    "The leg?"
                    "Certainly. That's the only thing that pains him, ain't it?"
                    
                    "I think not. I'm going to put his heart in a sling," said Smith, laughing
                        heartily at what he thought would be taken as a brilliant piece of jesting.
                        But he erred. Anderson went home in a great flurry and privately cautioned
                        every member of the household, including Rosalie, to treat Bonner with every
                        consideration, as his heart was weak and liable to give him great trouble.
                        Above all, he cautioned them to keep the distressing news from Bonner. It
                        would discourage him mightily. For a full week Anderson watched Bonner with
                        anxious eyes, writhing every  time the big
                        fellow exerted himself, groaning when he gave vent to his hearty laugh.
                    "Have you heard anything?" asked Bonner with faithful regularity when
                        Anderson came home each night. He referred to the chase for the
                        fugitives.
                    "Nothin' worth while," replied Anderson dismally. "Uncle Jiminy Borton had a
                        letter from Albany today, an' his son-in-law said three strange men had been
                        seen in the Albany depot the other day. I had Uncle Jiminy write an' ast him
                        if he had seen anybody answerin' the description, you know. But the three
                        men he spoke of took a train for New York, so I suppose they're lost by this
                        time. It's the most bafflin' case I ever worked on."
                    "Has it occurred to you that the real leader was in this neighbourhood at the
                        time? In Boggs City, let us say. According to RosaMiss Gray's story, the man
                        Sam went out nightly for instructions. Well, he either went to Boggs City or
                        to a meeting place agreed upon between him and his superior. It is possible
                        that he saw this person on the very night of my own adventure. Now, the
                        thing for us to do is to find out if a stranger was seen in these parts on
                        that night. The hotel registers in Boggs City may give us a clew. If you
                        don't mind, Mr. Crow, I'll have this New York detective, who is coming up
                        to-morrow, take a look into this phase of the case. It won't interfere with
                        your plans, will it?" asked Bonner, always considerate of the feelings of
                        the good-hearted, simple-minded old marshal.
                    "Not at all, an' I'll help him all I can, sir," responded  Anderson magnanimously. "Here, Eva, here's a
                        letter fer Rosalie. It's the second she's had from New York in three
                        days."
                    "It's from Miss Banks. They correspond, Anderson," said Mrs. Crow.
                    "And say, Eva, I've decided on one thing. We've got to calculate on gittin'
                        along without that thousand dollars after this."
                    "Why, Anderson Crow!"
                    "Yep. We're goin' to find her folks, no matter if we do have to give up the
                        thousand. It's no more'n right. She'll be twenty-one in March, an' I'll have
                        to settle the guardeenship business anyhow. But, doggone it, Mr. Bonner, she
                        says she won't take the money we've saved fer her."
                    "She has told me as much, Mr. Crow. I think she's partly right. If she takes
                        my advice she will divide it with you. You are entitled to all of it, you
                        knowit was to be your payand she will not listen to your plan to give all of
                        it to her. Still, I feel that she should not be penniless at this time. She
                        may never need itshe certainly will not as long as you are alivebut it seems
                        a wise thing for her to be protected against emergencies. But I dare say you
                        can arrange that between yourselves. I have no right to interfere. Was there
                        any mail for me?"
                    "Yep. I almost fergot to fork it over. Here's one from your mother, I figger.
                        This is from your sister, an' here's one from youryour sweetheart, I reckon.
                        I deduce all this by sizin' up the" and he went on to tell how he reached
                        his conclusions, all of which  were wrong.
                        They were invitations to social affairs in Boston. "But I got somethin'
                        important to tell you, Mr. Bonner. I think a trap is bein' set fer me by the
                        desperadoes we're after. I guess I'm gittin' too hot on their trail. I had
                        an ananymous letter to-day."
                    "A what?"
                    "Ananymous letter. Didn't you ever hear of one? This one was writ fer the
                        express purpose of lurin' me into a trap. They want to git me out of the
                        way. But I'll fool 'em. I'll not pay any attention to it."
                    
                    "Goodness, Anderson, I bet you'll be assassinated yet!" cried his poor wife.
                        "I wish you'd give up chasin' people down."
                    "May I have a look at the letter, Mr. Crow?" asked Bonner. Anderson
                        stealthily drew the square envelope from his inside pocket and passed it
                        over.
                    "They've got to git up purty early to ketch me asleep," he said proudly.
                        Bonner drew the enclosure from the envelope. As he read, his eyes twinkled
                        and the corners of his mouth twitched, but his face was politely sober as he
                        handed the missive back to the marshal. "Looks like a trap, don't it?" said
                        Anderson.  "You see there ain't no signature.
                        The raskils were afraid to sign a name."
                    "I wouldn't say anything to Miss Gray about this if I were you, Mr. Crow. It
                        might disturb her, you know," said Bonner.
                    "That means you, too, Eva," commanded Anderson in turn. "Don't worry the
                        girl. She mustn't know anything about this."
                    "I don't think it's a trap," remarked Eva as she finished reading the
                        missive. Bonner took this opportunity to laugh heartily. He had held it back
                        as long as possible. What Anderson described as an "ananymous" letter was
                        nothing more than a polite, formal invitation to attend a "house warming" at
                        Colonel Randall's on the opposite side of the river. It read:
                    "Mr. and Mrs. D. F. Randall request the honour of your presence at a house
                        warming, Friday evening, January 30, 190, at eight o'clock.
                        Rockden-of-the-Hills."
                    "It is addressed to me, too, Anderson," said his wife, pointing to the
                        envelope. "It's the new house they finished last fall. Anonymous letter!
                        Fiddlesticks! I bet there's one at the post-office fer each one of the
                        girls."
                    "Roscoe got some of the mail," murmured the marshal sheepishly. "Where is
                        that infernal boy? He'd oughter be strapped good and hard fer holdin' back
                        letters like this," growled he, eager to run the subject into another
                        channel. After pondering all evening, he screwed up the courage and asked
                        Bonner not to  tell any one of his error in
                        regard to the invitation. Roscoe produced invitations for his sister and
                        Rosalie. He furthermore announced that half the people in town had received
                        them.
                    "There's a telegram comin' up fer you after a while, Mr. Bonner," he said.
                        "Bud's out delivering one to Mr. Grimes, and he's going to stop here on the
                        way back. I was at the station when it come in. It's from your ma, and it
                        says she'll be over from Boggs City early in the morning."
                    "Thanks, Roscoe," said Bonner with an amused glance at Rosalie; "you've saved
                        me the trouble of reading it."
                    "They are coming to-morrow," said Rosalie long afterward, as the last of the
                        Crows straggled off to bed. "You will have to go away with them, won't
                        you?"
                    "I'm an awful nuisance about here, I fancy, and you'll be glad to be rid of
                        me," he said softly, his gaze on the blazing "back-log."
                    "No more so than you will be to go," she said so coolly that his pride
                        suffered a distinct shock. He stole a shy glance at the face of the girl
                        opposite. It was as calm and serene as a May morning. Her eyes likewise were
                        gazing into the blaze, and her fingers were idly toying with the fringe on
                        the arm of the chair.
                    "By George!" he thought, a weakness assailing his heart suddenly; "I don't
                        believe she cares a rap!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVI
                    The Left Ventricle
                    THE next day Mrs. Bonner and Miss Bonner descended upon
                        Tinkletown. They were driven over from Boggs City in an automobile, and
                        their advent caused a new thrill of excitement in town. Half of the women in
                        Tinkletown found excuse to walk past Mr. Crow's home some time during the
                        day, and not a few of them called to pay their respects to Mrs. Crow,
                        whether they owed them or not, much to that estimable lady's
                        discomfiture.
                    Wicker's mother was a handsome, aristocratic woman with a pedigree reaching
                        back to Babylon or some other historic starting place. Her ancestors were
                        Tories at the time of the American Revolution, and she was proud of it. Her
                        husband's forefathers had shot a few British in those days, it is true, and
                        had successfully chased some of her own ancestors over to Long Island, but
                        that did not matter in these twentieth century days. Mr. Bonner long since
                        had gone to the tomb; and his widow at fifty was quite the queen of all she
                        surveyed, which was not inconsiderable. The Bonners were rich in worldly
                        possessions, rich in social position, rich in traditions. The daughter, just
                        out in society, was a pretty girl, several years younger than Wicker. She
                        was the idol of his heart. This slip of a girl had been to him the
                        brightest,  wittiest and prettiest girl in all
                        the world. Now, he was wondering how the other girl, who was not his sister,
                        would compare with her when they stood together before him.
                    Naturally, Mrs. Crow and her daughters sank into a nervous panic as soon as
                        these fashionable women from Boston set foot inside the humble home. They
                        lost what little self-possession they had managed to acquire and floundered
                        miserably through the preliminaries.
                    But calm, sweet and composed as the most fastidious would require, Rosalie
                        greeted the visitors without a shadow of confusion or a sign of gaucherie.
                        Bonner felt a thrill of joy and pride as he took note of the look of
                        surprise that crept into his mother's facea surprise that did not diminish
                        as the girl went through her unconscious test.
                    "By George!" he cried jubilantly to himself, "she's something to be proud
                        ofshe's a queen!"
                    Later in the day, after the humble though imposing lunch (the paradox was
                        permissible in Tinkletown), Mrs. Bonner found time and opportunity to
                        express her surprise and her approval to him. With the insight of the real
                        aristocrat, she was not blind to the charms of the girl, who blossomed like
                        a rose in this out-of-the-way patch of nature. The tact which impelled
                        Rosalie to withdraw herself and all of the Crows from the house, giving the
                        Bonners an opportunity to be together undisturbed, did not escape the clever
                        woman of the world.
                    "She is remarkable, Wicker. Tell me about her. 
                        Why does she happen to be living in this wretched town and among such
                        people?"
                    Whereupon Bonner rushed into a detailed and somewhat lengthy history of the
                        mysterious Miss Gray, repeating it as it had come to him from her own frank
                        lips, but with embellishments of his own that would have brought the red to
                        her cheeks, could she have heard them. His mother's interest was not
                        assumed; his sister was fascinated by the recital.
                    "Who knows," she cried, her dark eyes sparkling, "she may be an heiress to
                        millions!"
                    "Or a princess of the royal blood!" amended her mother with an enthusiasm
                        that was uncommon. "Blood alone has made this girl what she is. Heaven knows
                        that billions or trillions could not have overcome the influences of a
                        lifetime spent inin Winkletownor is that the name? It doesn't matter,
                        Wickerany name will satisfy. Frankly, I am interested in the girl. It is a
                        crime to permit her to vegetate and die in a place like this."
                    "But, mother, she loves these people," protested Bonner lifelessly. "They
                        have been kind to her all these years. They have been parents,
                        protectors"
                    "And they have been well paid for it, my son. Please do not misunderstand me,
                        I am not planning to take her off their hands. I am not going to reconstruct
                        her sphere in life. Not by any means. I am merely saying that it is a crime
                        for her to be penned up for life in thisthis desert. I doubt very much
                        whether her parentage will ever be known, and perhaps it  is just as well that it isn't to be. Still, I
                        am interested."
                    "Mamma, I think it would be very nice to ask her to come to Boston for a week
                        or two, don't you?" suggested Edith Bonner, warmly but doubtfully.
                    "Bully!" exclaimed Wicker, forgetting in his excitement that he was a
                        cripple. "Have her come on to stop a while with you, Ede. It will be a great
                        treat for her and, by George, I'm inclined to think it maybe somewhat
                        beneficial to us."
                    "Your enthusiasm is beautiful, Wicker," said his mother, perfectly unruffled.
                        "I have no doubt you think Boston would be benefited, too."
                    "Now, you know, mother, it's not just like you to be snippish," said he
                        easily. "Besides, after living a while in other parts of the world, I'm
                        beginning to feel that population is not the only thing about Boston that
                        can be enlarged. It's all very nice to pave our streets with intellect so
                        that we can't stray from our own footsteps, but I rather like the idea of
                        losing my way, once in a while, even if I have to look at the same common,
                        old sky up there that the rest of the world looks at, don't you know. I've
                        learned recently that the same sun that shines on Boston also radiates for
                        the rest of the world."
                    "Yes, it shines in Tinkletown," agreed his mother serenely. "But, my dear"
                        turning to her daughter"I think you would better wait a while before
                        extending the invitation. There is no excuse for rushing into the unknown.
                        Let time have a chance."
                    "By Jove, mother, you talk sometimes like Anderson  Crow. He often says things like that," cried Wicker
                        delightedly.
                    "Dear me! How can you say such a thing, Wicker?"
                    "Well, you'd like old Anderson. He's a jewel!"
                    "I dare sayan emerald. No, nothat was not fair or kind, Wicker. I unsay it.
                        Mr. Crow and all of them have been good to you. Forgive me the sarcasm. Mr.
                        Crow is perfectly impossible, but I like him. He has a heart, and that is
                        more than most of us can say. And now let us return to earth once more. When
                        will you be ready to start for Boston? To-morrow?"
                    "Heavens, no! I'm not to be moved for quite a long timedanger of gangrene or
                        something of the sort. It's astonishing, mother, what capable men these
                        country doctors are. Dr. Smith is something of a marvel. Hehesaved my
                        leg."
                    "My boyyou don't mean that" his mother was saying, her voice trembling.
                    "Yes; that's what I mean. I'm all right now, but, of course, I shall be very
                        careful for a couple of weeks. One can't tell, you know. Blood poisoning and
                        all that sort of thing. But let's not talk of itit's gruesome."
                    "Indeed it is. You must be extremely careful, Wicker. Promise me that you
                        will do nothing foolish. Don't use your leg until the doctorbut I have
                        something better. We will send for Dr. J. He can run up from Boston two or
                        three times"
                    "Nothing of the sort, mother! Nonsense! Smith 
                        knows more in a minute than Jdoes in a month. He's handling the case exactly
                        as I want him to. Let well enough alone, say I. You know J always wants to
                        amputate everything that can be cut or sawed off. For heaven's sake, don't
                        let him try it on me. I need my legs."
                    It is not necessary to say that Mrs. Bonner was completely won over by this
                        argument. She commanded him to stay where he was until it was perfectly safe
                        to be moved across the river, where he could recuperate before venturing
                        into the city of his birth. Moreover, she announced that Edith and she would
                        remain in Boggs City until he was quite out of danger, driving over every
                        day in their chartered automobile. It suddenly struck Bonner that it would
                        be necessary to bribe "Doc" Smith and the entire Crow family, if he was to
                        maintain his position as an invalid.
                    "Doc" Smith when put to the test lied ably in behalf of his client (he
                        refused to call him his patient), and Mrs. Bonner was convinced. Mr. Crow
                        and Eva vigorously protested that the young man would not be a "mite of
                        trouble," and that he could stay as long as he liked.
                    "He's a gentleman, Mrs. Bonner," announced the marshal, as if the mother was
                        being made aware of the fact for the first time. "Mrs. Crow an' me have
                        talked it over, an' I know what I'm talkin' about. He's a perfect
                        gentleman."
                    "Thank you, Mr. Crow. I am happy to hear you say that," said Mrs. Bonner,
                        with fine tact. "You  will not mind if he
                        stops here a while longer then?"
                    "I should say not. If he'll take the job, I'll app'int him deputy
                        marshal."
                    "I'd like a picture of you with the badge and uniform, Wick," said Edith with
                        good-natured banter.
                    Just before the two ladies left for Boggs City that evening Bonner managed to
                        say something to Edith.
                    "Say, Ede, I think it would be uncommonly decent of you to ask Miss Gray down
                        to Boston this spring. You'll like her."
                    "Wicker, if it were not so awfully common, I'd laugh in my sleeve," said she,
                        surveying him with a calm scrutiny that disconcerted. "I wasn't born
                        yesterday, you know. Mother was, perhaps, but not your dear little sister.
                        Cheer up, brother. You'll get over it, just like all the rest. I'll ask her
                        to come, but Please don't frown like that. I'll suspect something."
                    During the many little automobile excursions that the two girls enjoyed
                        during those few days in Tinkletown, Miss Bonner found much to love in
                        Rosalie, much to esteem and a great deal to anticipate. Purposely, she set
                        about to learn by "deduction" just what Rosalie's feelings were for the big
                        brother. She would not have been surprised to discover the telltale signs of
                        a real but secret affection on Rosalie's part, but she was, on the contrary,
                        amazed and not a little chagrined to have the young girl meet every advance
                        with a joyous candour, that definitely set 
                        aside any possibility of love for the supposedly irresistible brother. Miss
                        Edith's mind was quite at rest, but with the arrogant pride of a sister, she
                        resented the fact that any one could know this cherished brother and not
                        fall a victim. Perversely, she would have hated Rosalie had she caught her,
                        in a single moment of unguardedness, revealing a feeling more tender than
                        friendly interest for him.
                    Sophisticated and world-wise, the gay, careless Miss Bonner read her pages
                        quicklyshe skimmed thembut she saw a great deal between the lines. If her
                        mother had been equally discerning, that very estimable lady might have
                        found herself immensely relieved along certain lines.
                    Bonner was having a hard time of it these days. It was worse than misery to
                        stay indoors, and it was utterly out of the question for him to venture out.
                        His leg was healing with disgusting rashness, but his heart was going into
                        an illness that was to scoff at the cures of man. And if his parting with
                        his mother and the rosy-faced young woman savoured of relief, he must be
                        forgiven. A sore breast is no respecter of persons.
                    They were returning to the Hub by the early morning train from Boggs City,
                        and it was understood that Rosalie was to come to them in June. Let it be
                        said in good truth that both Mrs. Bonner and her daughter were delighted to
                        have her promise. If they felt any uneasiness as to the possibility of
                        unwholesome revelations in connection with her birth, they purposely
                        blindfolded themselves and indulged in the game of consequences.
                    
                    Mrs. Bonner was waiting in the automobile, having said good-bye to
                        Wicker.
                    "I'll keep close watch on him, Mrs. Bonner," promised Anderson, "and
                        telegraph you if his condition changes a mite. I ast 'Doc' Smith to-day to
                        tell me the real truth 'bout him, an'"
                    "The real truth? What do you mean?" she cried, in fresh alarm.
                    "Don't worry, ma'am. He's improvin' fine, 'doc' says. He told me he'd be out
                        o' danger when he got back to Boston. His heart's worryin' 'doc' a little. I
                        ast 'im to speak plain an' tell me jest how bad it's affected. He said: 'At
                        present, only the left ventriclewhatever that beonly the left one is
                        punctured, but the right one seems to need a change of air.' "
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVII
                    The Grin Derisive
                    "I LIKE your ma," said Anderson to Wicker, later in the
                        evening. "She's a perfect lady. Doggone, it's a relief to see a rich woman
                        that knows how to be a lady. She ain't a bit stuck up an' yet she's a
                        reg'lar aristocrat. Did I ever tell you about what happened to Judge
                        Courtwright's wife? No? Well, it was a long time ago, right here in
                        Tinkletown. The judge concluded this would be a good place fer a summer
                        homeso him an' her put up a grand residence down there on the river bluff.
                        It was the only summer place on this side of the river. Well, of course Mrs.
                        Courtwright had to turn in an' be the leader of the women in this place. She
                        lorded it over 'em an' she give 'em to understand that she was a queen er
                        somethin' like that an' they was nothin' but peasants. An' the derned fool
                        women 'lowed her to do it, too. Seems as though her great-grandfather was a
                        'squire over in England, an' she had a right to be swell. Well, she ruled
                        the roost fer two summers an' nobody could get near her without a special
                        dispensation from the Almighty. She wouldn't look at anybody with her eyes;
                        her chin was so high in the air that she had to look through her nose.
                    "Her husband was as old as Methoosalumthat is, he was as old as Methoosalum
                        was when he was a  boy, so to speakan' she had
                        him skeered of his life. But I fixed her. At the end of the second summer
                        she was ready to git up an' git, duke er no duke. Lemme me give you a tip,
                        Wick. If you want to fetch a queen down to your level, jest let her know
                        you're laughin' at her. Well, sir, the judge's wife used to turn up her nose
                        at me until I got to feelin' too small to be seen. My pride was wallerin' in
                        the dust. Finally, I thought of a scheme to fix her. Every time I saw her,
                        I'd grin at hernot sayin' a word, mind you, but jest lookin' at her as if
                        she struck me as bein' funny. Well, sir, I kept it up good an' strong. First
                        thing I knowed, she was beginnin' to look as though a bee had stung her an'
                        she couldn't find the place. I'd ketch her stealin' sly glances at me an'
                        she allus found me with a grin on my facea good, healthy grin, too.
                    "There wasn't anything to laugh at, mind you, but she didn't know that. She
                        got to fixin' her back hair and lookin' worried about her clothes. 'Nen
                        she'd wipe her face to see if the powder was on straight, all the time
                        wonderin' what in thunder I was laughin' at. If she passed in her kerridge
                        she'd peep back to see if I was laughin'; and I allus was. I never failed.
                        All this time I wasn't sayin' a wordjest grinnin' as though she tickled me
                        half to death. Gradually I begin to be scientific about it. I got so that
                        when she caught me laughin', I'd try my best to hide the grin. Course that
                        made it all the worse. She fidgeted an' squirmed an' got red in the face
                        till it looked like she was pickled. Doggone, ef she didn't  begin to neglect her business as a
                        great-grand-daughter! She didn't have time to lord it over her peasants. She
                        was too blame busy wonderin' what I was laughin' at.
                    " 'Nen she begin to look peaked an' thin. She looked like she was seein'
                        ghosts all the time. That blamed grin of mine pursued her every minute.
                        Course, she couldn't kick about it. That wouldn't do at all. She jest had to
                        bear it without grinnin'. There wasn't anything to say. Finally, she got to
                        stayin' away from the meetin's an' almost quit drivin' through the town.
                        Everybody noticed the change in her. People said she was goin' crazy about
                        her back hair. She lost thirty pounds worryin' before August, and when
                        September come, the judge had to take her to a rest cure. They never come
                        back to Tinkletown, an' the judge had to sell the place fer half what it
                        cost him. Fer two years she almost went into hysterics when anybody laughed.
                        But it done her good. It changed her idees. She got over her high an' mighty
                        ways, they say, an' I hear she's one of the nicest, sweetest old ladies in
                        Boggs City nowadays. But Blootch Peabody says that to this day she looks
                        flustered when anybody notices her back hair. The Lord knows I wa'n't
                        laughin' at her hair. I don't see why she thought so, do you?"
                    Bonner laughed long and heartily over the experiment; but Rosalie vigorously
                        expressed her disapproval of the marshal's methods.
                    "It's the only real mean thing I ever heard of you doing, daddy Crow!" she
                        cried. "It was cruel!"
                    
                    "Course you'd take her part, bein' a woman," said he serenely. "Mrs. Crow
                        did, too, when I told her about it twenty years ago. Women ain't got much
                        sense of humour, have they, Wick?" He was calling him Wick nowadays; and the
                        young man enjoyed the familiarity.
                    The days came when Bonner could walk about with his cane, and he was not slow
                        to avail himself of the privilege this afforded. It meant enjoyable strolls
                        with Rosalie, and it meant the elevation of his spirits to such heights that
                        the skies formed no bounds for them. The town was not slow to draw
                        conclusions. Every one said it would be a "match." It was certain that the
                        interesting Boston man had acquired a clear field. Tinkletown's beaux gave
                        up in despair and dropped out of the contest with the hope that complete
                        recovery from his injuries might not only banish Bonner from the village,
                        but also from the thoughts of Rosalie Gray. Most of the young men took their
                        medicine philosophically. They had known from the first that their chances
                        were small. Blootch Peabody and Ed Higgins, because of the personal rivalry
                        between themselves, hoped on and on and grew more bitter between themselves,
                        instead of toward Bonner.
                    Anderson Crow and Eva were delighted and the Misses Crow, after futile
                        efforts to interest the young man in their own wares, fell in with the old
                        folks and exuberantly whispered to the world that "it would be perfectly
                        glorious." Roscoe was not so charitable. He was soundly disgusted with the
                        thought of losing his friend Bonner in the hated  bonds of matrimony. From his juvenile point of view, it was a
                        fate that a good fellow like Bonner did not deserve. Even Rosalie was not
                        good enough for him, so he told Bud Long; but Bud, who had worshipped
                        Rosalie with a hopeless devotion through most of his short life, took strong
                        though sheepish exceptions to the remark. It seemed quite settled in the
                        minds of every one but Bonner and Rosalie themselves. They went along
                        evenly, happily, perhaps dreamily, letting the present and the future take
                        care of themselves as best they could, making mountains of the pastmountains
                        so high and sheer that they could not be surmounted in retreat.
                    Bonner was helplessly in loveso much so, indeed, that in the face of it, he
                        lost the courage that had carried him through trivial affairs of the past,
                        and left him floundering vaguely in seas that looked old and yet were new.
                        Hourly, he sought for the first sign of love in her eyes, for the first
                        touch of sentiment; but if there was a point of weakness in her defence, it
                        was not revealed to the hungry perception of the would-be conqueror. And so
                        they drifted on through the February chill, that seemed warm to them,
                        through the light hours and the dark ones, quickly and surely to the day
                        which was to call him cured of one ill and yet sorely afflicted by
                        another.
                    Through it all he was saying to himself that it did not matter what her birth
                        may have been, so long as she lived at this hour in his life, and yet a
                        still, cool voice was whispering procrastination with ding-dong persistency
                        through every avenue of his brain.  "Wait!"
                        said the cool voice of prejudice. His heart did not hear, but his brain did.
                        One look of submission from her tender eyes and his brain would have turned
                        deaf to the small, cool voicebut her eyes stood their ground and the voice
                        survived.
                    The day was fast approaching when it would be necessary for him to leave the
                        home of Mr. Crow. He could no longer encroach upon the hospitality and good
                        nature of the marshalespecially as he had declined the proffered appointment
                        to become deputy town marshal. Together they had discussed every possible
                        side to the abduction mystery and had laid the groundwork for a systematic
                        attempt at a solution. There was nothing more for them to do. True to his
                        promise, Bonner had put the case in the hands of one of the greatest
                        detectives in the land, together with every known point in the girl's
                        history. Tinkletown was not to provide the solution, although it contained
                        the mystery. On that point there could be no doubt; so, Mr. Bonner was
                        reluctantly compelled to admit to himself that he had no plausible excuse
                        for staying on. The great detective from New York had come to town, gathered
                        all of the facts under cover of strictest secrecy, run down every possible
                        shadow of a clew in Boggs City, and had returned to the metropolis, there to
                        begin the search twenty-one years back.
                    "Four weeks," Bonner was saying to her reflectively, as they came homeward
                        from their last visit to the abandoned mill on Turnip Creek. It was a
                        bright, warm February morning, suggestive of spring  and fraught with the fragrance of something far sweeter. "Four
                        weeks of idleness and joy to mealmost a lifetime in the waste of years. Does
                        it seem long to you, Miss Grayoh, I remember, I am to call you Rosalie."
                    "It seems that I have known you always instead of for four weeks," she said
                        gently. "They have been happy weeks, haven't they? Myour only fear is that
                        you haven't been comfortable in our poor little home. It's not what you are
                        accustomed"
                    "Home is what the home folks make it," he said, striving to quote a vague old
                        saying. He was dimly conscious of a subdued smile on her part and he felt
                        the fool. "At any rate, I was more than comfortable. I was happynever so
                        happy. All my life shall be built about this single monthmy past ends with
                        it, my future begins. You, Rosalie," he went on swiftly, his eyes gleaming
                        with the love that would not be denied, "are the spirit of life as I shall
                        know it from this day forth. It is you who have made Tinkletown a kingdom,
                        one of its homes a palace. Don't turn your face away, Rosalie."
                    But she turned her face toward him and her dark eyes did not flinch as they
                        met his, out there in the bleak old wood.
                    "Don't, please don't, Wicker," she said softly, firmly. Her hand touched his
                        arm for an instant. "You will understand, won't you? Please don't!" There
                        was a world of meaning in it.
                    His heart turned cold as ice, the blood left his face. He understood. She did
                        not love him.
                    
                    "Yes," he said, his voice dead and hoarse, "I think I understand, Rosalie. I
                        have taken too much for granted, fool that I am. Bah! The egotism of a
                        fool!"
                    "You must not speak like that," she said, her face contracted by pain and
                        pity. "You are the most wonderful man I've ever knownthe best and the
                        truest. But" and she paused, with a wan, drear smile on her lips.
                    "I understand," he interrupted. "Don't say it. I want to think that some day
                        you will feel like saying something else, and I want to hope, Rosalie, that
                        it won't always be like this. Let us talk about something else." But neither
                        cared to speak for what seemed an hour. They were in sight of home before
                        the stony silence was broken. "I may come over from Bonner Place to see
                        you?" he asked at last. He was to cross the river the next day for a stay of
                        a week or two at his uncle's place.
                    "Yesoften, Wicker. I shall want to see you every day. Yes, every day; I'm
                        sure of it," she said wistfully, a hungry look in her eyes that he did not
                        see, for he was staring straight ahead. Had he seen that look or caught the
                        true tone in her voice, the world might not have looked so dark to him. When
                        he did look at her again, her face was calm almost to sereneness.
                    "And you will come to Boston in June just the same?"
                    "If your sister andand your mother still want me to come."
                    
                    She was thinking of herself, the nameless one, in the house of his people;
                        she was thinking of the doubts, the speculationseven the fears that would
                        form the background of her welcome in that proud house. No longer was
                        Rosalie Gray regarding herself as the happy, careless foster-child of
                        Anderson Crow; she was seeing herself only as the castaway, the unwanted,
                        and the world was growing bitter for her. But Bonner was blind to all this;
                        he could not, should not know.
                    "You know they want you to come. Why do you say that?" he asked quickly, a
                        strange, dim perspective rising before him for an instant, only to fade away
                        before it could be analysed.
                    "One always says that," she replied with a smile.
                    "It is the penalty of being invited. Your sister has written the dearest
                        letter to me, and I have answered it. We love one another, she and I."
                    "Rosalie, I am going to write to you," said he suddenly; "you will
                        answer?"
                    "Yes," she told him simply. His heart quickened, but faltered, and was lost.
                        "I had a long letter from Elsie Banks to-day," she went on with an
                        indifference that chilled.
                    "Oh," he said; "she is your friend who was or is to marry Tom Reddon, I
                        believe. I knew him at Harvard. Tell me, are they married?"
                    "No. It was not to take place until March, but now she writes that her mother
                        is ill and must go to California for several months. Mr. Reddon wants to be
                        married at once, or before they go West, at least; but  she says she cannot consent while her mother requires so much
                        of her. I don't know how it will end, but I presume they will be married and
                        all go to California. That seems the simple and just way, doesn't it?"
                    "Any way seems just, I'd say," he said. "They love one another, so what's the
                        odds? Do you know Reddon well?"
                    "I have seen him many times," she replied with apparent evasiveness.
                    "He is a" but here he stopped as if paralysis had seized him suddenly. The
                        truth shot into his brain like a deadly bolt. Everything was as plain as day
                        to him now. She stooped to pick up a slim, broken reed that crossed her
                        path, and her face was averted. "God!" was the cry that almost escaped his
                        lips. "She loves Reddon, and he is going to marry her best friend!" Cold
                        perspiration started from every pore in his body. He had met the doom of
                        lovethe end of hope.
                    "He has always loved her," said Rosalie so calmly that he was shocked by her
                        courage. "I hope she will not ask him to wait."
                    Rosalie never understood why Bonner looked at her in amazement and said:
                    "By Jove, you are aa marvel, Rosalie!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVIII
                    The Blind Man's Eyes
                    BONNER went away without another word of love to her. He saw the futility of
                        hoping, and he was noble enough to respect her plea for silence on the
                        subject that seemed distasteful to her. He went as one conquered and
                        subdued; he went with the iron in his heart for the first timedeeply
                        imbedded and racking.
                    Bonner came twice from the place across the river. Anderson observed that he
                        looked "peaked," and Rosalie mistook the hungry, wan look in his face for
                        the emaciation natural to confinement indoors. He was whiter than was his
                        wont, and there was a dogged, stubborn look growing about his eyes and mouth
                        that would have been understood by the sophisticated. It was the first
                        indication of the battle his love was to wage in days to come. He saw no
                        sign of weakening in Rosalie. She would not let him look into her brave
                        little heart, and so he turned his back upon the field and fled to Boston,
                        half beaten, but unconsciously collecting his forces for the strife of
                        another day. He did not know it then, nor did she, but his love was not
                        vanquished; it had met its first rebuff, that was all.
                    Tinkletown was sorry to see him depart, but it thrived on his promise to
                        return. Every one winked slyly behind his back, for, of course, Tinkletown
                        understood it all. He would come back often and  then not at allfor the magnet would go away with him in the end. The
                        busybodies, good-natured but garrulous, did not have to rehearse the story
                        to its end; it would have been superfluous. Be it said here, however, that
                        Rosalie was not long in settling many of the speculators straight in their
                        minds. It seemed improbable that it should not be as they had thought and
                        hoped. The news soon reached Blootch Peabody and Ed Higgins, and, both eager
                        to revive a blighted hope, in high spirits, called to see Rosalie on the
                        same night. It is on record that neither of them uttered two dozen words
                        between eight o'clock and ten, so bitterly was the presence of the other
                        resented.
                    March came, and with it, to the intense amazement
                         of Anderson Crow, the ever-mysterious
                        thousand dollars, a few weeks late. On a certain day the old marshal took
                        Rosalie to Boggs City, and the guardianship proceedings were legally closed.
                        Listlessly she accepted half of the money he had saved, having refused to
                        take all of it. She was now her own mistress, much to her regret if not to
                        his.
                    "I may go on living with you, Daddy Crow, may I not?" she asked wistfully as
                        they drove home through the March blizzard. "This doesn't mean that I cannot
                        be your own little girl after to-day, does it?"
                    "Don't talk like that, Rosalie Gray, er I'll put you to bed 'thout a speck o'
                        supper," growled he in his most threatening tones, but the tears were
                        rolling down his cheeks at the time.
                    "Do you know, daddy, I honestly hope that the big city detective won't find
                        out who I am," she said after a long period of reflection.
                    "Cause why?"
                    "Because, if he doesn't, you won't have any excuse for turning me out."
                    "I'll not only send you to bed, but I'll give you a tarnation good lickin'
                        besides if you talk like"
                    "But I'm twenty-one. You have no right," said she so brightly that he cracked
                        his whip over the horse's back and blew his nose twice for full measure of
                        gratitude.
                    "Well, I ain't heerd anything from that fly detective lately, an' I'm
                        beginnin' to think he ain't sech a long sight better'n I am," said he
                        proudly.
                    "He isn't half as good!" she cried.
                    
                    "I mean as a detective," he supplemented apologetically.
                    "So do I," she agreed earnestly; but it was lost on him.
                    There was a letter at home for her from Edith Bonner. It brought the news
                        that Wicker was going South to recuperate. His system had "gone off" since
                        the accident, and the March winds were driving him away temporarily.
                        Rosalie's heart ached that night, and there was a still, cold dread in its
                        depths that drove sleep away. He had not written to her, and she had begun
                        to fear that their month had been a trifle to him, after all. Now she was
                        troubled and grieved that she should have entertained the fear. Edith went
                        on to say that her brother had seen the New York detective, who was still
                        hopelessly in the dark, but struggling on in the belief that chance would
                        open the way for him.
                    Rosalie, strive as she would to prevent it, grew pale and the roundness left
                        her cheek as the weeks went by. Her every thought was with the man who had
                        gone to the Southland. She loved him as she loved life, but she could not
                        confess to him then or thereafter unless Providence made clear the purity of
                        her birth to her and to all the world. When finally there came to her a
                        long, friendly, even dignified letter from the far South, the roses began to
                        struggle back to her cheeks and the warmth to her heart. Her response
                        brought a prompt answer from him, and the roses grew faster than the spring
                        itself. Friendship, sweet and loyal, marked every word that passed between
                             them, but there was a dear world in each
                        epistlefor her, at least, a world of comfort and hope. She was praying,
                        hungering, longing for June to comesweet June and its tender touchJune with
                        its bitter-sweet and sun clouds. Now she was forgetting the wish which had
                        been expressed to Anderson Crow on the drive home from Boggs City. In its
                        place grew the fierce hope that the once despised detective might clear away
                        the mystery and give her the right to stand among others without shame and
                        despair.
                    "Hear from Wick purty reg'lar, don't you, Rosalie?" asked Anderson wickedly,
                        one night while Blootch was there. The suitor moved uneasily, and Rosalie
                        shot a reproachful glance at Anderson, a glance full of mischief as
                        well.
                    "He writes occasionally, daddy."
                    "I didn't know you corresponded reg'larly," said Blootch.
                    "I did not say regularly, Blucher."
                    "He writes sweet things to beat the band, I bet," said Blootch with a disdain
                        he did not feel.
                    "What a good guesser you are!" she cried tormentingly.
                    "Well, I guess I'll be goin'," exploded Blootch wrathfully; "it's gittin'
                        late."
                    "He won't sleep much to-night," said Anderson, with a twinkle in his eye, as
                        the gate slammed viciously behind the caller. "Say, Rosalie, there's
                        somethin' been fidgetin' me fer quite a while. I'll blurt it right out an'
                        have it over with. Air you in love with Wick Bonner?"
                    
                    She started, and for an instant looked at him with wide open eyes; then they
                        faltered and fell. Her breath came in a frightened, surprised gasp and her
                        cheeks grew warm. When she looked up again, her eyes were soft and pleading,
                        and her lips trembled ever so slightly.
                    "Yes, Daddy Crow, I love him," she almost whispered.
                    "An' him? How about him?"
                    "I can't answer that, daddy. He has not told me."
                    "Well, he ought to, doggone him!"
                    "I could not permit him to do so if he tried."
                    "What! You wouldn't permit? What in tarnation do you mean?"
                    "You forget, daddy, I have no right to his love. It would be wrongall wrong.
                        Good-night, daddy," she cried, impulsively kissing him and dashing away
                        before he could check her, but not before he caught the sound of a half sob.
                        For a long time he sat and stared at the fire in the grate. Then he slapped
                        his knee vigorously, squared his shoulders and set his jaw like a vise.
                        Arising, he stalked upstairs and tapped on her door. She opened it an inch
                        or two and peered forth at hima pathetic figure in white.
                    "Don't you worry, Rosalie," he gulped. "It will be all right and hunky dory.
                        I've just took a solemn oath down stairs."
                    "An oath, daddy?"
                    "Yes, sir; I swore by all that's good and holy I'd find out who your parents
                        are ef it took till doomsday. You shall be set right in the eyes of
                        everybody. Now, 
                        
                            "'I BEG YOUR PARDON,' HE SAID HUMBLY"
                        
                         if I was you, I'd go right to sleep. There
                        ain't nothin' to worry about. I've got another clew."
                    She smiled lovingly as he ambled away. Poor old Anderson's confidence in
                        himself was only exceeded by his great love for her.
                    At last June smiled upon Rosalie and she was off for Boston. Her gowns were
                        from Albany and her happiness from heavenaccording to a reverential
                        Tinkletown impression. For two weeks after her departure, Anderson Crow
                        talked himself hoarse into willing ears, always extolling the beauty of his
                        erstwhile ward as she appeared before the family circle in each and every
                        one of those wonderful gowns.
                    This humble narrative has not to do with the glories and foibles of Boston
                        social life. It has to deal with the adventures of Anderson Crow and Rosalie
                        Gray in so far as they pertain to a place called Tinkletown. The joys and
                        pleasures that Rosalie experienced during that month of June were not
                        unusual in character. The loneliness of Anderson Crow was not a novelty, if
                        one stops to consider how the world revolves for every one else. Suffice to
                        say that the Bonners, mre, fils and fille, exerted themselves to make the month an unforgetable one to
                        the girland they succeeded. The usual gaiety, the same old whirl of
                        experiences, came to her that come to any other mortal who is being
                        entertained, fted and admired. She was a successa pleasure in every waynot
                        only to her hosts but to herself. If there was a cloud hanging over her head
                        through all these days and nights, the world was none the wiser; the silver
                        lining was always visible.
                    
                    Once while she was driving with the Bonners she saw a man whom she knew, but
                        did not expect to ever look upon again. She could not be mistaken in him. It
                        was Sam Welch, chief of the kidnapers. He was gazing at her from a crowded
                        street corner, but disappeared completely before Bonner could set the police
                        on his trail.
                    Commencement Day at Cambridge brought back hundreds of the old menthe men
                        famous in every branch of study and athletics. Among them was handsome Tom
                        Reddon. He came to see her at the Bonner home. Elsie Banks was to return in
                        September from Honolulu, and they were to be married in the fall. Wicker
                        Bonner eagerly looked for the confusion of love in her eyes, but none
                        appeared. That night she told him, in reply to an impulsive demand, that she
                        did not care for Reddon, that she never had known the slightest feeling of
                        tenderness for him.
                    "Have you ever been in love, Rosalie?" he asked ruthlessly.
                    "Yes," she said after a moment, looking him bravely in the eyes.
                    "And could you never learn to love any one else?"
                    "I think not, Wicker," she said ever so softly.
                    "I beg your pardon," he said humbly, his face white and his lips drawn. "I
                        should not have asked."
                    And so he remained the blind man, with the light shining full into his
                        eyes.
                    
                    
                        "'I THINK I UNDERSTAND, ROSALIE'"
                    
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIX
                    The Mysterious Questioner
                    July brought Rosalie's visit to an end, and once more Tinkletown basked in
                        her smiles and yet wondered why they were so sad and wistful. She and Bonner
                        were much nearer, far dearer to one another than ever, and yet not one
                        effort had been made to bridge the chasm of silence concerning the thing
                        that lay uppermost in their minds. She only knew that Anderson Crow had not
                        "run down" his clew, nor had the New York sleuth reported for weeks.
                        Undoubtedly, the latter had given up the search, for the last heard of him
                        was when he left for Europe with his wife for a pleasure trip of unknown
                        duration. It looked so dark and hopeless to her, all of it. Had Bonner
                        pressed his demands upon her at the end of the visit in Boston, it is
                        possiblemore than possiblethat she would have faltered in her resolution.
                        After all, why should she deprive herself of happiness if it was held out to
                        her with the promise that it should never end?
                    The summer turned steaming hot in the lowlands about Tinkletown, but in the
                        great hills across the river the air was cool, bright, and invigorating.
                        People began to hurry to their country homes from the distant cities. Before
                        the month was old, a score or more of beautiful places were opened and
                        filled  with the sons and daughters of the
                        rich. Lazily they drifted and drove and walked through the wonderful hills,
                        famed throughout the world, and lazily they wondered why the rest of the
                        world lived. In the hills now were the Randalls, the Farnsworths, the
                        Brackens, the Brewsters, the Van Wagenens, the Rolfes and a host of others.
                        Tinkletown saw them occasionally as they came jaunting by in their traps and
                        brakes and automobilesbut it is extremely doubtful if they saw Tinkletown in
                        passing.
                    Anderson Crow swelled and blossomed in the radiance of his own importance. In
                        his old age he was becoming fastidious. Only in the privacy of his own back
                        yard did he go without the black alpaca coat; he was beginning to despise
                        the other days, when he had gone coatless from dawn till dark, on the street
                        or off. His badges were pinned neatly to his lapel and not to his
                        suspenders, as in the days of yore. His dignity was the same, but the old
                        sense of irritation was very much modified. In these new days he was
                        considerateand patronising. Was he not one of the wealthiest men in townwith
                        his six thousand dollars laid by? Was he not its most honoured citizen, not
                        excepting the mayor and selectmen? Was he not, above all, a close friend of
                        the Bonners?
                    The Bonners were to spend August in the Congressman's home across the big
                        river. This fact alone was enough to stir the Crow establishment to its most
                        infinitesimal roots. Rosalie was to be one of the guests at the house party,
                        but her foster-sisters were not the kind to be envious. They revelled with
                             her in the preparations for that new
                        season of delight.
                    With the coming of the Bonners, Anderson once more revived his resolution to
                        unravel the mystery attending Rosalie's birth. For some months this ambition
                        had lain dormant, but now, with the approach of the man she loved, the old
                        marshal's devotion took fire and he swore daily that the mystery should be
                        cleared "whether it wanted to be or not." He put poor old Alf Reesling
                        through the "sweat box" time and again, and worthless Tom Folly had many an
                        unhappy night, wondering why the marshal was shadowing him so
                            persistently.
                    
                    "Alf," demanded Anderson during one of the sessions, "where were you on the
                        night of February 18, 1883? Don't hesitate. Speak up. Where were you? Aha,
                        you cain't answer. That looks suspicious."
                    
                    "You bet I c'n answer," said Alf bravely, blinking his blear eyes. "I was in
                        Tinkletown."
                    "What were you doin' that night?"
                    "I was sleepin'."
                    "At what time? Keerful now, don't lie."
                    "What time o' night did they leave her on your porch?" demanded Alf in
                        turn.
                    "It was jest half past 'leven."
                    "You're right, Anderson. That's jest the time I was asleep."
                    "C'n you prove it? Got witnesses?"
                    "Yes, but they don't remember the night."
                    "Then it may go hard with you. Alf, I still believe you had somethin' to do
                        with that case."
                    "I didn't, Anderson, so help me."
                    "Well, doggone it, somebody did," roared the marshal. "If it wasn't you, who
                        was it? Answer that, sir."
                    "Why, consarn you, Anderson Crow, I didn't have any spare children to leave
                        around on doorsteps. I've allus had trouble to keep from leavin' myself
                        there. Besides, it was a woman that left her, wasn't it? Well, consarn it,
                        I'm not a woman, am I? Look at my whiskers, gee whiz! I"
                    "I didn't say you left the baskit, Alf; I only said you'd somethin' to do
                        with it. I remember that there was a strong smell of liquor around the place
                        that night." In an instant Anderson was sniffing the air. "Consarn ye, the
                        same smell as nowyer drunk."
                    "Tom Folly drinks, too," protested Alf. "He drinks Martini cocktails."
                    "Don't you?"
                    
                    "Not any more. The last time I ordered one was in a Dutch eatin' house up to
                        Boggs City. The waiter couldn't speak a word of English, an' that's the
                        reason I got so full. Every time I ordered 'dry Martini' he brought me
                        three. He didn't know how to spell it. No, sir, Anderson; I'm not the woman
                        you want. I was at home asleep that night. I remember jest as well as
                        anything, that I said before goin' to bed that it was a good night to sleep.
                        I remember lookin' at the kitchen clock an' seein' it was jest eighteen
                        minutes after eleven. 'Nen I said"
                    "That'll be all for to-day, Alf," interrupted the questioner, his gaze
                        suddenly centering on something down the street. "You've told me that six
                        hundred times in the last twenty years. Come on, I see the boys pitchin'
                        horseshoes up by the blacksmith shop. I'll pitch you a game fer the
                        seegars."
                    "I cain't pay if I lose," protested Alf.
                    "I know it," said Anderson; "I don't expect you to."
                    The first day that Bonner drove over in the automobile, to transplant Rosalie
                        in the place across the river, found Anderson full of a new and startling
                        sensation. He stealthily drew the big sunburnt young man into the stable,
                        far from the house. Somehow, in spite of his smiles, Bonner was looking
                        older and more serious. There was a set, determined expression about his
                        mouth and eyes that struck Anderson as new.
                    "Say, Wick," began the marshal mysteriously, "I'm up a stump."
                    "What? Another?"
                    "No; jest the same one. I almost got track of somethin'  thin' to-daynot two hours ago. I met a man out yander near the
                        cross-roads that I'm sure I seen aroun' here about the time Rosalie was left
                        on the porch. An' the funny part of it was, he stopped me an' ast me about
                        her. Doggone, I wish I'd ast him his name."
                    "You don't mean it!" cried Bonner, all interest. "Asked about her? Was he a
                        stranger?"
                    "I think he was. Leastwise, he said he hadn't been aroun' here fer more'n
                        twenty year. Y' see, it was this way. I was over to Lem Hudlow's to ask if
                        he had any hogs stole last nightLem lives nigh the poorhouse, you know. He
                        said he hadn't missed any an' ast me if any hogs had been found. I tole him
                        no, not that I knowed of, but I jest thought I'd ask; I thought mebby he'd
                        had some stole. You never c'n tell, you know, an' it pays to be attendin' to
                        business all the time. Well, I was drivin' back slow when up rode a feller
                        on horseback. He was a fine-lookin' man 'bout fifty year old, I reckon, an'
                        was dressed in all them new-fangled ridin' togs. 'Ain't this Mr. Crow, my
                        old friend, the detective?' said he. 'Yes, sir,' said I. 'I guess you don't
                        remember me,' says he. I told him I did, but I lied. It wouldn't do fer him
                        to think I didn't know him an' me a detective, don't y' see?
                    "We chatted about the weather an' the crops, him ridin' longside the
                        buckboard. Doggone, his face was familiar, but I couldn't place it. Finally,
                        he leaned over an' said, solemn-like: 'Have you still got the little girl
                        that was left on your porch?' You bet I jumped when he said that. 'Yes,'
                        says I, 'but she  ain't a little girl now.
                        She's growed up.' 'Is she purty?' he ast. 'Yes,' says I, 'purty as a
                        speckled pup!' 'I'd like to see her,' he said. 'I hear she was a beautiful
                        baby. I hope she is very, very happy.' 'What's that to you?' says I,
                        sharp-like. 'I am very much interested in her, Mr. Crow,' he answered. 'Poor
                        child, I have had her in mind for a long time,' he went on very solemn. I
                        begin to suspect right away that he had a lot to do with her affairs.
                        Somehow, I couldn't help thinkin' I'd seen him in Tinkle-town about the time
                        she was droppedleft, I mean.
                    " 'You have given her a good eddication, I hope,' said he. 'Yes, she's got
                        the best in town,' said I. 'The thousand dollars came all right every year?'
                        'Every February.' 'I should like to see her sometime, if I may, without her
                        knowin' it, Mr. Crow.' 'An' why that way, sir?' demanded I. 'It would
                        probably annoy her if she thought I was regardin' her as an object of
                        curiosity,' said he. 'Tell her fer me,' he went on' gittin' ready to whip
                        up, 'that she has an unknown friend who would give anything he has to help
                        her.' Goshed, if he didn't put the gad to his horse an' gallop off 'fore I
                        could say another word. I was goin' to ask him a lot of questions, too."
                    "Can't you remember where and under what circumstances you saw him before?"
                        cried Bonner, very much excited.
                    "I'm goin' to try to think it up to-night. He was a rich-lookin' feller an'
                        he had a heavy black band aroun' one of his coat sleeves. Wick, I bet he's
                        the  man we want. I've made up my mind 'at
                        he's her father!"
                    Bonner impatiently wormed all the information possible out of the marshal,
                        especially as to the stranger's looks, voice, the direction taken when they
                        parted company and then dismally concluded that an excellent opportunity had
                        been hopelessly lost. Anderson said, in cross-examination, that the stranger
                        had told him he "was leavin' at once fer New York and then going to Europe."
                        His mother had died recently.
                    "I'll try to head him off at Boggs City," said Bonner; and half an hour later
                        he was off at full speed in the big machine for the county seat, a
                        roundabout way to Bonner Place. The New York train had gone, but no one had
                        seen a man answering the description of Anderson's interviewer.
                    "I'm sorry, Rosalie," said Bonner some time later. He was taking her for a
                        spin in the automobile. "It was a forlorn hope, and it is also quite
                        probable that Mr. Crow's impressions are wrong. The man may have absolutely
                        no connection with the matter. I'll admit it looks interesting, his manner
                        and his questions, and there is a chance that he knows the true story. In
                        any event, he did not go to New York today and he can't get another train
                        until to-morrow. I'll pick up Mr. Crow in the morning and we'll run up here
                        to have a look at him if he appears."
                    "I think it is a wild goose chase, Wicker," Rosalie said despairingly. "Daddy
                        Crow has done such things before."
                    "But this seems different. The man's actions were 
                        
                            "IT WAS A WISE, DISCREET OLD OAK"
                        
                         curious. He must have had some reason for
                        being interested in you. I am absolutely wild with eagerness to solve this
                        mystery, Rosalie. It means life to me."
                    "Oh, if you only could do it," she cried so fervently, that his heart leaped
                        with pity for her.
                    "I love you, Rosalie. I would give my whole life to make you happy. Listen,
                        dearestdon't turn away from me! Are you afraid of me?" He was almost wailing
                        it into her ear.
                    "II was only thinking of the danger, Wicker. You are not watching the road,"
                        she said, flushing a deep red. He laughed gaily for the first time in
                        months.
                    "It is a wide road and clear," he said jubilantly. "We are alone and we are
                        merely drifting. The machine is alive with happiness. RosalieRosalie, I
                        could shout for joy! You do love me? You will be my
                        wife?"
                    She was white and silent and faint with the joy of it all and the pain of it
                        all. Joy in the full knowledge that he loved her and had spoken in spite of
                        the cloud that enveloped her, pain in the certainty that she could not
                        accept the sacrifice. For a long time she sat staring straight down the
                        broad road over which they were rolling.
                    "Wicker, you must not ask me now," she said at last, bravely and earnestly.
                        "It is sweet to know that you love me. It is life to meyes, life, Wicker.
                        But, don't you see? No, no! You must not expect it. You must not ask it.
                        Don't, don't, dear!" she cried, drawing away as he leaned toward her,
                        passion in his eyes, triumph in his face. 
                        "But we love each other!" he cried. "What matters the rest? I want youyou!"
                    "Have you considered? Have you thought? I have, a thousand times, a thousand
                        bitter thoughts. I cannot, I will not be youryour wife, Wicker, until"
                    In vain he argued, pleaded, commanded. She was firm and she felt she was
                        right if not just. Underneath it all lurked the fear, the dreadful fear that
                        she may have been a child of love, the illegitimate offspring of passion. It
                        was the weight that crushed her almost to lifelessness; it was the bar
                        sinister.
                    "No, Wicker, I mean it," she said in the end resolutely. "Not until I can
                        give you a name in exchange for your own."
                    "Your name shall one day be Bonner if I have to wreck the social system of
                        the whole universe to uncover another one for you."
                    The automobile had been standing, by some extraordinary chance, in the cool
                        shade of a great oak for ten minutes or more, but it was a wise, discreet
                        old oak.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXX
                    The Hemisphere Train Robbery
                    ANDERSON CROW lived at the extreme south end of
                        Tinkletown's principal thoroughfare. The "calaboose" was situated at the far
                        end of Main Street, at least half a mile separating the home of the law and
                        the home of the lawless. Marshal Crow's innate love for the spectacular
                        alone explains the unneighbourliness of the two establishments. He felt an
                        inward glory in riding or walking the full length of the street, and he
                        certainly had no reason to suspect the populace of disregarding the outward
                        glory he presented.
                    The original plan of the merchantry comprehended the erection of the jail in
                        close proximity to the home of its chief official, but Mr. Crow put his foot
                        flatly and ponderously upon the scheme. With the dignity which made him
                        noticeable, he said he'd "be doggoned ef he wanted to have people come to
                        his own dooryard to be arrested." By which, it may be inferred, that he
                        expected the evil-doer to choose his own arresting place.
                    Mr. and Mrs. Crow were becoming thrifty, in view of the prospect that
                        confronted them, to wit: The possible marriage of Rosalie and the cutting
                        off of the yearly payments. As she was to be absent for a full month or
                        more, Anderson conceived the idea of advertising for a lodger and boarder.
                        By turning Roscoe  out of his bed, they
                        obtained a spare room that looked down upon the peony beds beyond the side
                        "portico."
                    Mr. Crow was lazily twisting his meagre chin whiskers one morning soon after
                        Rosalie's departure. He was leaning against the town pump in front of the
                        post-office, the sun glancing impotently off the bright badge on the lapel
                        of his alpaca coat. A stranger came forth from the post-office and
                        approached the marshal.
                    
                    "Is this Mr. Crow?" he asked, with considerable deference.
                    "It is, sir."
                    "They tell me you take lodgers."
                    "Depends."
                    "My name is Gregory, Andrew Gregory, and I am 
                        here to canvass the neighbourhood in the interest of the Human Life
                        Insurance Company of Penobscot. If you need references, I can procure them
                        from New York or Boston."
                    The stranger was a tall, lean-faced man of forty or forty-five, well dressed,
                        with a brusque yet pleasant manner of speech. His moustache and beard were
                        black and quite heavy. Mr. Crow eyed him quietly for a moment.
                    "I don't reckon I'll ask fer references. Our rates are six dollars a week,
                        board an' room. Childern bother you?"
                    "Not at all. Have you any?"
                    "Some, more or less. They're mostly grown."
                    "I will take board and room for two weeks, at least," said Mr. Gregory, who
                        seemed to be a man of action.
                    For almost a week the insurance agent plied his vocation assiduously but
                        fruitlessly. The farmers and the citizens of Tinkletown were slow to take up
                        insurance. They would talk crops and politics with the obliging Mr. Gregory,
                        but that was all. And yet, his suavity won for him many admirers. There were
                        not a few who promised to give him their insurance if they concluded to
                        "take any out." Only one man in town was willing to be insured, and he was
                        too old to be comforting. Mr. Calligan was reputed to be one hundred and
                        three years of age; and he wanted the twenty-year endowment plan. Gregory
                        popularised himself at the Crow home by paying for his room in advance.
                        Moreover, he was an affable chap with a fund of good stories straight from
                        Broadway. At  the post-office and in Lamson's
                        store he was soon established as a mighty favourite. Even the women who came
                        to make purchases in the evening,a hitherto unknown custom,lingered outside
                        the circle on the porch, revelling in the second edition of the "Arabian
                        Nights."
                    "Our friend, the detective here," he said, one night at the close of the
                        first week, "tells me that we are to have a show in town next week. I
                        haven't seen any posters."
                    "Mark Riley's been goin' to put up them bills sence day 'fore yesterday,"
                        said Anderson Crow, with exasperation in his voice, "an he ain't done it
                        yet. The agent fer the troupe left 'em here an' hired Mark, but he's so
                        thunderation slow that he won't paste 'em up 'til after the show's been an'
                        gone. I'll give him a talkin' to to-morrer."
                    "What-fer show is it?" asked Jim Borum.
                    "Somethin' like a circus on'y 'tain't one," said Anderson. "They don't
                        pertend to have animals."
                    "Don't carry a menagerie, I see," remarked Gregory.
                    " 'Pears that way," said Anderson, slowly analysing the word.
                    "I understand it is a stage performance under a tent," volunteered the
                        postmaster.
                    "That's what it is," said Harry Squires, the editor, with a superior air.
                        "They play 'As You Like It,' by Shakespeare. It's a swell show. We got out
                        the hand bills over at the office. They'll be distributed in town to-morrow,
                        and a big batch of them will be sent over to the summer places across the
                        river. The  advance agent says it is a
                        high-class performance and will appeal particularly to the rich city people
                        up in the mountains. It's a sort of open-air affair, you know." And then Mr.
                        Squires was obliged to explain to his fellow-townsmen all the known details
                        in connection with the approaching performance of "As You Like It" by the
                        Boothby Company, set for Tinkletown on the following Thursday night.
                        Hapgood's Grove had been selected by the agent as the place in which the
                        performance should be given.
                    "Don't they give an afternoon show?" asked Mrs. Williams.
                    "Sure not," said Harry curtly. "It isn't a museum."
                    "Of course not," added Anderson Crow reflectively. "It's a troupe."
                    The next morning, bright and early, Mark Riley fared forth with paste and
                        brush. Before noon, the board fences, barns and blank walls of Tinkletown
                        flamed with great red and blue letters, twining in and about the portraits
                        of Shakespeare, Manager Boothby, Rosalind, Orlando, and an extra king or two
                        in royal robes. A dozen small boys spread the hand bills from the Banner presses, and Tinkletown was stirred by the
                        excitement of a sensation that had not been experienced since Forepaugh's
                        circus visited the county seat three years before. It went without saying
                        that Manager Boothby would present "As You Like It" with an "unrivalled
                        cast." He had "an allstar production," direct from "the leading theatres of
                        the universe."
                    When Mark Riley started out again in the afternoon  for a second excursion with paste and brush, "slapping up"
                        small posters with a celerity that bespoke extreme interest on his part, the
                        astonished populace feared that he was announcing a postponement of the
                        performance. Instead of that, however, he was heralding the fact that the
                        Hemisphere Trunk Line and Express Company would gladly pay ten thousand
                            dollars
                         reward for the "apprehension and capture" of
                        the men who robbed one of its richest trains a few nights before, seizing as
                        booty over sixty thousand dollars in money, besides killing two messengers
                        in cold blood. The great train robbery occurred in the western part of the
                        State, hundreds of miles from Tinkletown, but nearly all of its citizens had
                        read accounts of the deed in the weekly paper from Boggs City.
                    "I seen the item about it in Mr. Gregory's New York paper," said Anderson
                        Crow to the crowd at Lamson's.
                    "Gee whiz, it must 'a' been a peach!" said Isaac Porter, open-mouthed and
                        eager for details. Whereupon Marshal Crow related the story of the crime
                        which stupefied the world on the morning of July 31st. The express had been
                        held up in an isolated spot by a half-dozen masked men. A safe had been
                        shattered and the contents confiscated, the perpetrators vanishing as
                        completely as if aided by Satan himself. The authorities were baffled. A
                        huge reward was offered in the hope that it might induce some discontented
                        underling in the band to expose his comrades.
                    "Are you goin' after 'em, Anderson?" asked old Mr. Borton, with unfailing
                        faith in the town's chief officer.
                    "Them fellers is in Asia by this time," vouchsafed Mr. Crow scornfully,
                        forgetting that less than a week had elapsed since the robbery. He flecked a
                        fly from his detective's badge and then struck viciously at the same insect
                        when it straightway attacked his G. A. R. emblem.
                    
                    "I doubt it," said Mr. Lamson. "Like as not they're right here in this State,
                        mebby in this county. You can't tell about them slick desperadoes. Hello,
                        Harry! Has anything more been heard from the train robbers?" Harry Squires
                        approached the group with something like news in his face.
                    "I should say so," he said. "The darned cusses robbed the State Express last
                        night at Vanderskoop and got away with thirteen hundred dollars. Say,
                        they're wonders! The engineer says they're only five of them."
                    "Why, gosh dern it, Vanderskoop's only the fourth station west of Boggs
                        City!" exclaimed Anderson Crow, pricking up his official ear. "How in
                        thunder do you reckon they got up here in such a short time?"
                    "They probably stopped off on their way back from Asia," drily remarked Mr.
                        Lamson; but it passed unnoticed.
                    "Have you heard anything more about the show, Harry?" asked Jim Borum. "Is
                        she sure to be here?" What did Tinkletown care about the train robbers when
                        a "show" was headed that way?
                    "Sure. The press comments are very favourable," said Harry. "They all say
                        that Miss Marmaduke, who plays Rosalind, is great. We've got a cut of her
                        and, say, she's a beauty. I can see myself sitting in the front row next
                        Thursday night, good and proper."
                    "Say, Anderson, I think it's a dern shame fer Mark Riley to go 'round pastin'
                        them reward bills over the show pictures," growled Isaac Porter. "He ain't
                        got a bit o' sense."
                    
                    With one accord the crowd turned to inspect two adjacent bill boards. Mark
                        had either malignantly or insanely pasted the reward notices over the nether
                        extremities of Rosalind as she was expected to appear in the Forest of
                        Arden. There was a period of reflection on the part of an outraged
                        constituency.
                    "I don't see how he's goin' to remove off them reward bills without scraping
                        off her legs at the same time," mused Anderson Crow in perplexity. Two
                        housewives of Tinkletown suddenly deserted the group and entered the store.
                        And so it was that the train robbers were forgotten for the time being.
                    But Marshal Crow's reputation as a horse-thief taker and general suppressor
                        of crime constantly upbraided him. It seemed to call upon him to take steps
                        toward the capture of the train robbers. All that afternoon he reflected.
                        Tinkletown, seeing his mood, refrained from breaking in upon it. He was
                        allowed to stroke his whiskers in peace and to think to his heart's content.
                        By nightfall his face had become an inscrutable mask, and then it was known
                        that the President of Bramble County's Horse-Thief Detective Association was
                        determined to fathom the great problem. Stealthily he went up to the great
                        attic in his home and inspected his "disguises." In some far-off period of
                        his official career he had purchased the most amazing collection of false
                        beards, wigs and garments that any stranded comedian ever disposed of at a
                        sacrifice. He tried each separate article, seeking for the best individual
                        effect; then he tried them collectively. It would certainly have  been impossible to recognise him as Anderson
                        Crow. In truth, no one could safely have identified him as a human
                        being.
                    "I'm goin' after them raskils," he announced to Andrew Gregory and the whole
                        family, as he came down late to take his place at the head of the supper
                        table.
                    "Ain't you goin' to let 'em show here, pop?" asked Roscoe in distress.
                    "Show here? What air you talkin' about?"
                    "He means the train robbers, Roscoe," explained the lad's mother. The boy
                        breathed again.
                    "They are a dangerous lot," volunteered Gregory, who had been in Albany for
                        two days. "The papers are full of their deeds. Cutthroats of the worst
                        character."
                    "I'd let them alone, Anderson," pleaded his wife. "If you corner them,
                        they'll shoot, and it would be jest like you to follow them right into their
                        lair."
                    "Consarn it, Eva, don't you s'pose that I c'n shoot, too?" snorted Anderson.
                        "What you reckon I've been keepin' them loaded revolvers out in the barn all
                        these years fer? Jest fer ornaments? Not much! They're to shoot with, ef
                        anybody asks you. Thunderation, Mr. Gregory, you ain't no idee how a feller
                        can be handicapped by a timid wife an' a lot o' fool childern. I'm almost
                        afeard to turn 'round fer fear they'll be skeered to death fer my
                        safety."
                    "You cut yourself with a razor once when ma told you not to try to shave the
                        back of your neck by yourself," said one of the girls. "She wanted you to
                        let  Mr. Beck shave it for you, but you
                        wouldn't have it that way."
                    "Do you suppose I want an undertaker shavin' my neck? I'm not that anxious to
                        be shaved. Beck's the undertaker, Mr. Gregory."
                    "Well, he runs the barber shop, too," insisted the girl.
                    During the next three days Tinkletown saw but little of its marshal, fire
                        chief and street commissioner. That triple personage was off on business of
                        great import. Early, each morning, he mysteriously stole away to the woods,
                        either up or down the river, carrying a queer bundle under the seat of his
                        "buckboard." Two revolvers, neither of which had been discharged for ten
                        years, reposed in a box fastened to the dashboard. Anderson solemnly but
                        positively refused to allow any one to accompany him, nor would he permit
                        any one to question him. Farmers coming to town spoke of seeing him in the
                        lanes and in the woods, but he had winked genially when they had asked what
                        he was trailing.
                    "He's after the train robbers," explained all Tinkle-town soberly. Whereupon
                        the farmers and their wives did not begrudge Anderson Crow the chicken
                        dinners he had eaten with them, nor did they blame him for bothering the men
                        in the fields. It was sufficient that he found excuse to sleep in the shade
                        of their trees during his still hunt.
                    "Got any track of 'em?" asked George Ray one evening, stopping at Anderson's
                        back gate to watch the marshal unhitch his thankful nag. Patience had ceased
                        to be a virtue with George.
                    
                    "Any track of who?" asked Mr. Crow with a fine show of innocence.
                    "The robbers."
                    "I ain't been trackin' robbers, George."
                    "What in thunder have you been trackin' all over the country every day,
                        then?"
                    "I'm breakin' this colt," calmly replied the marshal, with a mighty wink at
                        old Betty, whom he had driven to the same buckboard for twenty years. As
                        George departed with an insulted snort, Andrew Gregory came from the barn,
                        where he had been awaiting the return of Mr. Crow."
                    "I'm next to something big," he announced in a low tone, first looking in all
                        directions to see that no one was listening.
                    "Gosh! Did you land Mr. Farnsworth?"
                    "It has nothing to do with insurance," hastily explained the agent. "I've
                        heard something of vast importance to you."
                    "You don't mean to say the troupe has busted?"
                    "Nono; it is in connection withwith" and here Mr. Gregory leaned forward and
                        whispered something in Anderson's ear. Mr. Crow promptly stopped dead still
                        in his tracks, his eyes bulging. Betty, who was being led to the water
                        trough, being blind and having no command to halt, proceeded to bump
                        forcibly against her master's frame.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXI
                    "As You Like It"
                    YOUdon'tsayso! Whoa! dang ye! Cain't you see where you're
                        goin', you old rip?" Betty was jerked to a standstill. "What have you
                        heerd?" asked Anderson, his voice shaking with interest.
                    "I can't tell you out here," said the other cautiously. "Put up the nag and
                        then meet me in the pasture out there. We can sit down and talk and not be
                        overheard."
                    "I won't be a minute. Here, you Roscoe! Feed Betty and water her first. Step
                        lively, now. Tell your ma we'll be in to supper when we git good an'
                        ready."
                    Anderson and Andrew Gregory strode through the pasture gate and far out into
                        the green meadow. Once entirely out of hearing, Gregory stopped and both sat
                        down upon a little hillock. The agent was evidently suppressing considerable
                        excitement.
                    "Those train robbers are in this neighbourhood," he said, breaking a long
                        silence. Anderson looked behind involuntarily. "I don't mean that they are
                        in this pasture, Mr. Crow. You've been a good friend to me, and I'm inclined
                        to share the secret with you. If we go together, we may divide the
                        ten-thousand-dollar reward, because I'm quite sure we can land those
                        chaps.
                    
                    "What's your plan?" asked Anderson, turning a little pale at the thought.
                        Before going any further into the matter, Gregory asked Anderson if he would
                        sign a paper agreeing to divide the reward equally with him. This point was
                        easily settled, and then the insurance man unfolded his secret.
                    "I have a straight tip from a friend in New York and he wouldn't steer me
                        wrong. The truth about him is this: He used to work for our company, but
                        took some money that didn't belong to him. It got him a sentence in the pen.
                        He's just out, and he knows a whole lot about these robbers. Some of them
                        were in Sing Sing with him. The leader wanted him to join the gang and he
                        half-way consented. His duty is to keep the gang posted on what the officers
                        in New York are doing. See?"
                    "Of course," breathed Anderson.
                    "Well, my friend wants to reform. All he asks is a slice of the reward. If we
                        capture the gang, we can afford to give him a thousand or so, can't we?"
                    "Of course," was the dignified response.
                    "Here's his letter to me. I'll read it to you." In the gathering dusk Gregory
                        read the letter to the marshal of Tinkletown. "Now, you see," he said, at
                        the close of the astounding epistle, "this means that if we observe strict
                        secrecy, we may have the game in our hands. No one must hear a word of this.
                        They may have spies right here in Tinkletown. We can succeed only by keeping
                        our mouths sealed."
                    "Tighter'n beeswax," promised Anderson Crow.
                    Briefly, the letter to Andrew Gregory was an exposure  of the plans of the great train-robber gang, together with
                        their whereabouts on a certain day to come. They were to swoop down on
                        Tinkletown on the night of the open-air performance of "As You Like It," and
                        their most desperate coup was to be the result. The scheme was to hold up
                        and rob the entire audience while the performance was going on. Anderson
                        Crow was in a cold perspiration. The performance was but three days off, and
                        he felt that he required three months for preparation.
                    "How in thunder are we goin' to capture that awful gang, jest you an' me?" he
                        asked, voicing his doubts and fears.
                    "We'll have to engage help, that's all."
                    "We'll need a regiment."
                    "Don't you think it. Buck up, old fellow, don't be afraid."
                    "Afeerd? Me? I don't know what it is to be skeered. Didn't you ever hear
                        about how I landed them fellers that kidnaped my daughter Rosalie? Well, you
                        jest ast some one 'at knows about it. Umph! I guess that was a recommend fer
                        bravery. But these fellers will be ready fer us, won't they?"
                    "We can trick them easily. I've been thinking of a plan all afternoon. We
                        don't know just where they are now, so we can't rake them in to-night. We'll
                        have to wait until they come to us. My plan is to have a half-dozen
                        competent private detectives up from New York. We can scatter them through
                        the audience next Thursday night, and when the right time comes we can land
                        on every one of those fellows  like hawks on
                        spring chickens. I know the chief of a big private agency in New York, and I
                        think the best plan is to have him send up some good men. It won't cost
                        much, and I'd rather have those fearless practical men here than all the
                        rubes you could deputise. One of 'em is worth ten of your fellow-citizens,
                        Mr. Crow, begging your pardon for the remark. You and I can keep the secret
                        and we can do the right thing, but we would be asses to take more Tinkletown
                        asses into our confidence. If you'll agree, I'll write to Mr. Pinkerton this
                        evening. He can have his men here, disguised and ready for work, by Thursday
                        afternoon. If you don't mind, I'd like to have you take charge of the
                        affair, because you know just how to handle thieves, and I don't. What say
                        you?"
                    Anderson was ready and eager to agree to anything, but he hesitated a long
                        time before concluding to take supreme charge of the undertaking. Mr.
                        Gregory at once implored him to take command. It meant the success of the
                        venture; anything else meant failure.
                    "But how'n thunder am I to know the robbers when I see 'em?" demanded the
                        marshal, nervously pulling bluegrass up by the roots.
                    "You'll know 'em all right," said Andrew Gregory.
                    Thursday came and with it the "troupe." Anderson Crow had not slept for three
                        nights, he was so full of thrills and responsibility. Bright and early that
                        morning he was on the lookout for suspicious characters. Gregory was to meet
                        the detectives from New York at half-past seven in the evening. By  previous arrangement, these strangers were to
                        congregate casually at Tinkletown Inn, perfectly disguised as gentlemen,
                        ready for instructions. The two arch-plotters had carefully devised a plan
                        of action. Gregory chuckled secretly when he thought of the sensation
                        Tinkletown was to experienceand he thought of it often, too.
                    The leading members of Boothby's All Star Company "put up" at the Inn, which
                        was so humble that it staggered beneath this unaccustomed weight of dignity.
                        The beautiful Miss Marmaduke (in reality, Miss Cora Miller) was there, and
                        so were Miss Trevanian, Miss Gladys Fitzmaurice, Richmond Barrett (privately
                        Jackie Blake), Thomas J. Booth, Francisco Irving, Ben Jefferson and others.
                        The Inn was glorified. All Tinkletown looked upon the despised old "eating
                        house" with a reverence that was not reluctant.
                    The manager, a busy and preoccupied person, who looked to be the lowliest
                        hireling in the party, came to the Inn at noon and spread the news that the
                        reserved seats were sold out and there was promise of a fine crowd.
                        Whereupon there was rejoicing among the All Star Cast, for the last legs of
                        the enterprise were to be materially strengthened.
                    "We won't have to walk back home," announced Mr. Jackie Blake, that
                        good-looking young chap who played Orlando.
                    "Glorious Shakespeare, thou art come to life again," said Ben Jefferson, a
                        barn-stormer for fifty years. "I was beginning to think you were a dead
                        one."
                    
                    "And no one will seize our trunks for board," added Miss Marmaduke
                        cheerfully. She was a very pretty young woman and desperately in love with
                        Mr. Orlando.
                    "If any one seized Orlando's trunks, I couldn't appear in public to-night,"
                        said Mr. Blake. "Orlando possesses but one pair of trunks."
                    "You might wear a mackintosh," suggested Mr. Booth.
                    "Or borrow trunks of the trees," added Mr. Irving.
                    "They're off," growled Mr. Jefferson, who hated the puns he did not make.
                    "Let's dazzle the town, Cora," said Jackie Blake; and before Tinkletown could
                        take its second gasp for breath, the leading man and woman were slowly
                        promenading the chief and only thoroughfare.
                    "By ginger! she's a purty one, ain't she?" murmured Ed Higgins, sole clerk at
                        Lamson's. He stood in the doorway until she was out of sight and remained
                        there for nearly an hour awaiting her return. The men of Tinkletown took but
                        one look at the pretty young woman, but that one look was continuous and
                        unbroken.
                    "If this jay town can turn up enough money tonight to keep us from stranding,
                        I'll take off my hat to it for ever more," said Jackie Blake.
                    "Boothby says the house is sold out," said Miss Marmaduke, a shade of anxiety
                        in her dark eyes. "Oh, how I wish we were at home again."
                    "I'd rather starve in New York than feast in the high hills," said he
                        wistfully. The idols to whom  Tinkletown was
                        paying homage were but human, after all. For two months the Boothby Company
                        had been buffeted from pillar to post, struggling hard to keep its head
                        above water, always expecting the crash. The "all-stars" were no more than
                        striving young Thespians, who were kept playing throughout the heated term
                        with this uncertain enterprise, solely because necessity was in command of
                        their destinies. It was not for them to enjoy a summer in ease and
                        indolence.
                    "Never mind, dear," said she, turning her green parasol so that it obstructed
                        the intense but complimentary gaze of no less than a dozen men; "our luck
                        will change. We won't be barn-storming for ever."
                    "We've one thing to be thankful for, little woman," said Jackie, his face
                        brightening. "We go out again this fall in the same company. That's luck,
                        isn't it? We'll be married as soon as we get back to New York and we won't
                        have to be separated for a whole season, at least."
                    "Isn't it dear to think of, Jackie sweetheart? A whole season and then
                        another, and then all of them after that? Oh, dear, won't it be sweet?" It
                        was love's young dream for both of them.
                    "Hello, what's this?" exclaimed Orlando the Thousandth, pausing before a
                        placard which covered the lower limbs of his pictorial partner. "Ten
                        Thousand Dollars reward! Great Scott, Cora, wouldn't I like to catch those
                        fellows? Great, eh? But it's a desperate gang! The worst ever!"
                    Just then both became conscious of the fact that  some one was scrutinising them intently from behind. They turned and
                        beheld Anderson Crow, his badges glistening.
                    "How are you, officer?" said Jackie cheerily. Miss Marmaduke, in her
                        happiness, beamed a smile upon the austere man with the chin whiskers.
                        Anderson was past seventy, but that smile caused the intake of his breath to
                        almost lift him from the ground.
                    "First rate, thanks; how's yourself? Readin' the reward notice? Lemme tell
                        you something. There's goin' to be somethin' happen tarnation soon that will
                        astonish them fellers ef" but here Anderson pulled up with a jerk, realising
                        that he was on the point of betraying a great secret. Afraid to trust
                        himself in continued conversation, he abruptly said: "Good afternoon," and
                        started off down the street, his ears tingling.
                    "Queer old chap, isn't he?" observed Jackie, and immediately forgot him as
                        they strolled onward.
                    That evening Tinkletown swarmed with strangers. The weather was fine, and
                        scores of the summer dwellers in the hills across the river came over to see
                        the performance, as the advance agent had predicted. Bluff Top Hotel sent a
                        large delegation of people seeking the variety of life. There were
                        automobiles, traps, victorias, hay-racks, and "sundowns" standing all along
                        the street in the vicinity of Hapgood's Grove. It was to be, in the
                        expansive language of the press agent, "a cultured audience made up of the
                        lite of the community."
                    
                    Late in the afternoon, a paralysing thought struck in upon the marshal's
                        brain. It occurred to him that this band of robbers might also be engaged to
                        carry off Rosalie Gray. After all, it might be the great dominant reason for
                        their descent upon the community. Covered with a perspiration that was not
                        caused by heat, he accosted Wicker Bonner, the minute that gentleman arrived
                        in town. Rosalie went, of course, to the Crow home for a short visit with
                        the family.
                    "Say, Wick, I want you to do me a favour," said Anderson eagerly, taking the
                        young man aside. "I cain't tell you all about it, 'cause I'm bound by a
                        deathless oath. But, listen, I'm afraid somethin's goin' to happen to-night.
                        There's a lot o' strangers here, an' I'm nervous about Rosalie. Somebody
                        might try to steal her in the excitement. Now I want you to take good keer
                        of her. Don't let 'er out o' your sight, an' don't let anybody git 'er away
                        from you. I'll keep my eye on her, too. Promise me."
                    "Certainly, Mr. Crow. I'll look out for her. That's what I hope to do all the
                        rest of?"
                    "Somethin' 's liable to happen," Mr. Crow broke in, and then quietly slipped
                        away.
                    Bonner laughed easily at the old man's fears and set them down as a part of
                        his whimsical nature. Later, he saw the old man near the entrance as the
                        party passed inside the inclosure. The Bonner party occupied prominent seats
                        in front, reserved by the marshal. There were ten in the group, a half-dozen
                        young Boston people completing the house party.
                    
                    The side walls of a pavilion inclosed the most beautiful section of the
                        grove. In one end were the seats, rapidly filling with people. At the
                        opposite end, upon Mother Earth's green carpet, was the stage, lighted dimly
                        by means of subdued spot lights and a few auxiliary stars on high. There was
                        no scenery save that provided by Nature herself. An orchestra of violins
                        broke through the constant hum of eager voices.
                    Anderson Crow's heart was inside the charmed inclosure, but his person was
                        elsewhere. Simultaneously, with the beginning of the performance of "As You
                        Like It," he was in his own barn-loft confronting Andrew Gregory and the
                        five bewhiskered assistants from New York City. Gregory had met the
                        detectives at the Inn and had guided them to the marshal's barn, where final
                        instructions were to be given. For half an hour the party discussed plans
                        with Anderson Crow, speaking in low, mysterious tones that rang in the
                        marshal's ears to his dying day.
                    
                    "We've located those fellows," asserted Mr. Gregory firmly. "There can be no
                        mistake. They are already in the audience over there, and at a signal  will set to work to hold up the whole crowd.
                        We must get the drop on them, Mr. Crow. Don't do that! You don't need a
                        disguise. Keep those yellow whiskers in your pocket. The rest of us will
                        wear disguises. These men came here disguised because the robbers would be
                        onto them in a minute if they didn't. They know every detective's face in
                        the land. If it were not for these beards and wigs they'd have spotted
                        Pinkerton's men long ago. Now, you know your part in the affair, don't
                        you?"
                    
                    "Yes, sir," respectfully responded Anderson, his chin whisker wobbling
                        pathetically.
                    "Then we're ready to proceed. It takes a little nerve, that's all, but we'll
                        soon have those robbers just where we want them," said Andrew Gregory.
                    The second act of the play was fairly well under way when Orlando, in the
                        "green room," remarked to the stage director:
                    "What's that old rube doing back here, Ramsay? Why, hang it, man, he's
                        carrying a couple of guns.  Is this a
                        hold-up?" At the same instant Rosalind and two of the women came rushing
                        from their dressing tent, alarmed and indignant. Miss Marmaduke, her eyes
                        blazing, confronted the stage director.
                    "What does this mean, Mr. Ramsay?" she cried. "That old man ordered us out of
                        our dressing-room at the point of a revolver, andsee! There he is now doing
                        the same to the men."
                    It was true. Anderson Crow, with a brace of horse pistols, was driving the
                        players toward the centre of the stage. In a tremulous voice he commanded
                        them to remain there and take the consequences. A moment later the marshal
                        of Tinkletown strode into the limelight with his arsenal, facing an
                        astonished and temporarily amused audience. His voice, pitched high with
                        excitement, reached to the remotest corners of the inclosure. Behind him the
                        players were looking on, open-mouthed and bewildered. To them he loomed up
                        as the long-dreaded constable detailed to attach their personal effects. The
                        audience, if at first it laughed at him as a joke, soon changed its view.
                        Commotion followed his opening speech.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXII
                    The Luck of Anderson Crow
                    "DON'T anybody attempt to leave this tent!" commanded Mr.
                        Crow, standing bravely forth with his levelled revolvers. The orchestra made
                        itself as small as possible, for one of the guns wavered dangerously. "Don't
                        be alarmed, ladies and gentlemen. The train robbers are among you."
                    There were a few feminine shrieks, a volume of masculine "Whats!" a
                        half-hearted and uncertain snigger, and a general turning of heads.
                    "Keep your seats!" commanded Anderson. "They can't escape. I have them
                        surrounded. I now call upon all robbers present to surrender in the name of
                        the law. Surrender peaceful and you will not be damaged; resist and we'll
                        blow you to hell an' gone, even at the risk of injurin' the women and
                        childern. The law is no respecter of persons. Throw up your hands!"
                    He waited impressively, but either through stupefaction or obstinacy the
                        robbers failed to lift their hands.
                    "You're cornered, you golderned scamps!" shouted Anderson Crow, "an' you
                        might jest as well give up! Twenty Pinkerton men are here from New York
                        City, an' you can't escape! Throw up your hands!"
                    
                    "The damned old fool is in earnest," gasped Judge Brewster, from across the
                        river.
                    "He's crazy!" cried Congressman Bonner.
                    "Let everybody in this crowd throw up their hands!" called a firm, clear
                        voice from the entrance. At the same instant five bewhiskered individuals
                        appeared as if by magic with drawn revolvers, dominating the situation
                        completely. The speaker was Andrew Gregory, the insurance agent.
                    
                    "Now, what have you got to say?" cried Anderson gaily. "I guess me an' the
                        detectives have you cornered all right, ain't we?"
                    The audience sat stupefied, paralysed. While all this was going on upon the
                        inside, a single detective on the outside was stealthily puncturing the
                        tires of every automobile in the  collection,
                        Mr. Bracken's huge touring car being excepted for reasons to be seen later
                        on.
                    "Good heavens!" groaned old Judge Brewster. A half dozen women fainted and a
                        hundred men broke into a cold perspiration.
                    "Hands up, everybody!" commanded Andrew Gregory. "We can take no chances. The
                        train robbers are in this audience. They came to hold up the entire crowd,
                        but we are too quick for you, my fine birds. The place is surrounded!"
                    "Mr. Gregory, the insurance" began Anderson Crow, but he was cut short.
                    "Mr. Crow deserves great credit for this piece of detective work. His mere
                        presence is a guaranty of safety to those of you who are not thieves. You
                        all have your hands up? Thanks. Mr. Crow, please keep those actors quiet.
                        Now, ladies and gentlemen, it is not always an easy matter to distinguish
                        thieves from honest men. I will first give the desperadoes a chance to
                        surrender peaceably. No one steps forward? Very well. Keep your hands up,
                        all of you. The man who lowers his hands will be instantly regarded as a
                        desperado and may get a bullet in his body for his folly. The innocent must
                        suffer with the guilty. Mr. Crow, shall we proceed with the search?"
                    "Yes, sir; go right ahead, and be quick," replied Anderson Crow.
                    "Very well, then, in the name of the law, my men will begin the search. They
                        will pass among you, ladies and gentlemen, and any effort to retard their
                        progress will be met with instantwell, you know."
                    
                    Before the petrified audience could fully realise what was taking place,
                        three of the detectives were swiftly passing from person to person,
                        stripping the women of their jewels, the men of their money and their
                        watches. A half-hearted protest went up to Anderson Crow, but it was checked
                        summarily by the "searching party." It was well for the poor marshal that he
                        never knew what the audience thought of him at that ghastly moment.
                    It was all over in five minutes. The detectives had searched every
                        prosperous-looking person in the audience, under the very nose and guns of
                        Marshal Crow, and they were sardonically bidding the assemblage a fond
                        good-bye from the flapping doorway in the side wall. Andrew Gregory
                        addressed the crowd, smiling broadly.
                    "We found a good many more robbers in the crowd than we could conveniently
                        handle, ladies and gentlemen. In fact, I never came across such a rare
                        collection of hold-up men outside of Wall Street. The only perfectly honest
                        man in Tinkletown to-night is Anderson Crow, your esteemed marshal. Believe
                        me, he is ridiculously honest. He may be a damn fool, but he is honest.
                        Don't blame him. Thanking you, one and all, for your generous help in our
                        search for the train robbers, we bid you an affectionate farewell. We may
                        meet again if you travel extensively on express trains. Good-night!"
                    With a taunting laugh, Andrew Gregory dropped the flap and leaped after his
                        companions. Bracken's chauffeur lay senseless by the roadside, and one of
                        the  "detectives" sat in his seat. Even as the
                        audience opened its collective mouth to shout its wrath and surprise, the
                        big touring car, with six armed men aboard, leaped away with a rush. Down
                        the dark road it flew like an express train, its own noise drowning the
                        shouts of the multitude, far behind.
                    Bonner, recovering from his stupefaction and rage, led the pursuit, first
                        commanding Rosalie to hurry home with the women and lock herself safely
                        indoors.
                    Anderson Crow, realising what a dupe he had been in the hands of the clever
                        scoundrels, was covered with fear and shame. The outraged crowd might have
                        killed him had not his escape been made under cover of darkness. Shivering
                        and moaning in abject misery, the pride of Tinkletown fled unseeing,
                        unthinking into the forest along the river. He was not to know until
                        afterward that his "detectives" had stripped the rich sojourners of at least
                        ten thousand dollars in money and jewels. It is not necessary to say that
                        the performance of "As You Like It" came to an abrupt end, because it was
                        not as they liked it. Everybody knew by this time that they had seen the
                        celebrated "train robbers."
                    Jackie Blake was half dressed when he leaped to his feet with an exclamation
                        so loud that those preceding it were whispers.
                    "Holy smoke!" fell from his lips; and then he dashed across the green to the
                        women's dressing tent. "Cora! Cora! Come out!"
                    "I can't," came back in muffled tones.
                    
                    "Then good-bye; I'm off!" he shouted. That brought her, partially dressed,
                        from the tent. "Say, do you remember the river road we walked over today?
                        Well, those fellows went in that direction, didn't they? Don't you see?
                        Aren't you on? The washout! If they don't know about it the whole bunch is
                        at the bottom of the ravine or in the river by this time! Mum's the word!
                        There's a chance, darling; the reward said 'dead or alive!' I'm off!"
                    She tried to call him back, but it was too late. With his own revolver in his
                        hand, the half Orlando, half Blake, tore down the rarely travelled river
                        road south. Behind him Tinkletown raved and wailed over the great calamity,
                        but generally stood impotent in the face of it all. But few felt inclined to
                        pursue the robbers. Blake soon had the race to himself. It was a mile or
                        more to the washout in the road, but the excitement made him keen for the
                        test. The road ran through the woods and along the high bluff that
                        overlooked the river. He did not know it, but this same road was a "short
                        cut" to the macadam pike farther south. By taking this route the robbers
                        gave Boggs City a wide berth.
                    Blake's mind was full of the possibilities of disaster to the over-confident
                        fugitives. The washout was fresh, and he was counting on the chance that
                        they were not aware of its existence. If they struck it even at half speed
                        the whole party would be hurled a hundred feet down to the edge of the river
                        or into the current itself. In that event, some, if not all, would be
                        seriously injured.
                    
                    As he neared the turn in the road, his course pointed out to him by the stars
                        above, he was startled half out of his boots by the sudden appearance of a
                        man, who staggered from the roadside and wobbled painfully away, pleading
                        for mercy.
                    "Halt, or I'll shoot!" called Jackie Blake, and the pathetic figure entity ot
                        only halted, but sat down in the middle of the road.
                    "For the Lord's sake, don't shoot!" groaned a hoarse voice. "I wasn't in
                        cahoots with them. They fooled methey fooled me." It was Anderson Crow, and
                        he would have gone on interminably had not Jackie Blake stopped him
                        short.
                    "You're the marshal, eh? The darned rube"
                    "Yes, I'm him. Call me anything, only don't shoot. Who are you?" groaned
                        Anderson, rising to his knees. He was holding his revolvers by the
                        muzzles.
                    "Never mind who I am. I haven't time. Say, you'd better come with me. Maybe
                        we can head off those villains. They came this way and"
                    "Show 'em to me," roared Anderson, recognising a friend. Rage surged up and
                        drove out the shame in his soul. "I'll tackle the hull caboodle, dang 'em!"
                        And he meant it, too.
                    Blake did not stop to explain, but started on, commanding Mr. Crow to follow.
                        With rare forethought the marshal donned his yellow beard as he panted in
                        the trail of the lithe young actor. The latter remembered that the odds were
                        heavily against him. The marshal might prove a valuable aid in case of
                        resistance, provided, of course, that they came  upon the robbers in the plight he was hoping for.
                    "Where the dickens are you a-goin'?" wheezed the marshal, kicking up a great
                        dust in the rear. The other did not answer. His whole soul was enveloped in
                        the hope that the washout had trapped the robbers. He was almost praying
                        that it might be so. The reward could be divided with the poor old marshal
                        if
                    
                    He gave a yell of delight, an instant later, and then began jumping straight
                        up and down like one demented. Anderson Crow stopped so abruptly that his
                        knees were stiff for weeks. Jackie Blake's wild dream had come true. The
                        huge automobile had struck the washout, and it was now lying at the base of
                        the bluff, smashed to pieces on the rocks! By the dim light from the
                        heavens, Blake could see the black hulk down there, but it was too dark to
                        distinguish other objects. He was about to descend to the river bank when
                        Anderson Crow came up.
                    "What's the matter, man?" panted he.
                    
                    
                        "THE HUGE AUTOMOBILE HAD STRUCK THE WASHOUT"
                    
                    
                    "They're down there, don't you see it? They went over the bluff right
                        herecome on. We've got 'em!"
                    "Hold on!" exclaimed Anderson, grasping his arm. "Don't rush down there like
                        a danged fool. If they're alive they can plug you full of bullets in no
                        time. Let's be careful."
                    "By thunder, you're right. You're a wise old owl, after all. I never thought
                        of that. Let's reconnoitre."
                    
                    Tingling with excitement, the two oddly mated pursuers descended stealthily
                        by a roundabout way. They climbed over rocks and crept through underbrush
                        until finally they came to a clear spot not twenty feet from where the great
                        machine was lying, at the very edge of the swift, deep current. They heard
                        groans and faint cries, with now and then a piteous oath. From their hiding
                        place they counted the forms of four men lying upon the rocks, as if dead.
                        The two held a whispered consultation of war, a plan of action
                        resulting.
                    "Surrender!" shouted Jackie  Blake, standing
                        forth. He and Anderson had their pistols levelled upon the prostrate
                        robbers. For answer there were louder groans, a fiercer oath or two and then
                        a weak, pain-struck voice came out to them:
                    "For God's sake, get this machine off my legs. I'm dying. Help! Help! We
                        surrender!"
                    Ten minutes later, the jubilant captors had released the miserable Andrew
                        Gregory from his position beneath the machine, and had successfully bound
                        the hands and feet of five half-unconscious men. Gregory's legs were crushed
                        and one other's skull was cracked. The sixth man was nowhere to be found.
                        The disaster had been complete, the downfall of the great train robbers
                        inglorious. Looking up into the face of Anderson Crow, Gregory smiled
                        through his pain and said hoarsely:
                    "Damned rotten luck; but if we had to be taken, I'm glad you did it, Crow.
                        You're a good fool, anyway. But for God's sake, get me to a doctor."
                    "Dang it! I'm sorry fer you, Mr. Gregory" began Anderson, ready to cry.
                    "Don't waste your time, old man. I need the doctor. Are the others dead?" he
                        groaned.
                    "I don't know," replied Jackie Blake. "Some of them look like it. We can't
                        carry you up that hill, but we'll do the next best thing. Marshal, I'll stay
                        here and guard the prisoners while you run to the village for helpand
                        doctors."
                    "And run fast, Anderson," added Gregory. "You always were so devilish slow.
                        Don't walktrot."
                    Soon afterward, when Anderson, fagged but over-joyed,  hobbled into the village, the excited crowd was ready to lynch
                        him, but with his first words the atmosphere changed.
                    "Where is Jackie Blake?" sobbed a pretty young woman, grasping the proud
                        marshal's arm and shaking him violently.
                    "Derned if I know, ma'am. Was he stole?"
                    She made him understand, and together, followed by the actors, the audience
                        and the whole town, they led the way to the washout, the fair Rosalind
                        dragging the overworked hero of the hour along at a gait which threatened to
                        be his undoing.
                    Later on, after the five bandits had been carried to the village, Jackie
                        Blake gladly informed his sweetheart that they could have easy sailing with
                        the seven thousand dollars he expected. Anderson Crow had agreed to take but
                        three thousand dollars for his share in the capture. One of the robbers was
                        dead. The body of the sixth was found in the river weeks afterward.
                    "I'm glad I was the first on the ground," said Blake, in anticipation of the
                        reward which was eventually to be handed over to him. "But Anderson Crow
                        turned out to be a regular trump, after all. He's a corker!" He was speaking
                        to Wicker Bonner and a crowd of New Yorkers.
                    Tinkletown began to talk of a monument to Anderson Crow, even while he lived.
                        The general opinion was that it should be erected while he was still able to
                        enjoy it and not after his death, when he would not know anything about its
                        size and cost.
                    
                    "By gosh! 'Twas a great capture!" swelling perceptibly. "I knowed they
                        couldn't escape me. Dang 'em! they didn't figger on me, did they? Pshaw! it
                        was reediculus of 'em to think they c'd fool me entirely, although I'll have
                        to confess they did fool me at first. It was a desprit gang an' mighty
                        slick."
                    "You worked it great, Anderson," said George Ray. "Did you know about the
                        washout?"
                    "Did I know about it?" snorted Anderson witheringly. "Why, good Gosh
                        a'mighty, didn't I purty near run my legs off to git there in time to throw
                        down the barricade before they could get there with Mr. Bracken's
                        automobile? Thunderation! What a fool question!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXIII
                    Bill Briggs Tells a Tale
                    TINKLETOWN fairly bubbled with excitement. At last the
                        eyes of the world were upon it. News of the great sensation was flashed to
                        the end of the earth; every detail was gone into with harrowing minuteness.
                        The Hemisphere Company announced by telegraph that it stood ready to hand
                        over the ten thousand dollars; and the sheriff of Bramble County with all
                        the United States deputy marshals within reach raced at once to Tinkletown
                        to stick a finger in the pie.
                    The morning after the "great pavilion robbery," as it was called in the Banner, Anderson Crow and Bonner fared forth early to have
                        a look at the injured desperadoes, all of whom were safely under guard at
                        the reincarnated calaboose. Fifty armed men had stood guard all night long,
                        notwithstanding the fact that one robber was dead and the others so badly
                        injured that they were not expected to survive the day.
                    A horseman passed the marshal and his friend near the post-office, riding
                        rapidly to the north. He waved his crop pleasantly to them and Bonner
                        responded. Anderson stopped stock still and tried to speak, but did not
                        succeed for a full minute; he was dumb with excitement.
                    "That's him!" he managed to gasp. "The feller I saw the other daythe man on
                        horseback!"
                    
                    "That?" cried Bonner, laughing heartily. "Why, that is John E. Barnes, the
                        lawyer and probably a United States Senator some day. Good heavens, Mr.
                        Crow, you've made a bad guess of it this time! He is staying with Judge
                        Brewster, his father-in-law."
                    "What! Well, by Geminy! I thought I knowed him," cried Anderson. "They cain't
                        fool me long, Wicknone of 'em. He's the same feller 'at run away with Judge
                        Brewster's daughter more'n twenty year ago. 'y Gosh, I was standin' right on
                        this very spot the first time I ever see him. He sold me a hoss and buggybut
                        I got the money back. I arrested him the same day."
                    "Arrested John Barnes?" in amazement.
                    "Yepfer murderonly he wasn't the murderer. We follered him down the riverhim
                        an' the girlto Bracken's place, but they were married afore we got there.
                        Doggone, that was a busy day! Some blamed good detective work was did, too.
                        I"
                    "And Mr. Barnes was interested in Rosalie?" asked Bonner suddenly. "How could
                        he have known anything about her?"
                    "That's what puzzles me. She came here about two years after the elopement
                        more er less, but I don't remember ever seein' him after that time."
                    "It's very strange, Mr. Crow," reflected Bonner soberly. "He has a son, I
                        know. His wife died a year or so after the boy's birth. Young Barnes is
                        about twenty-one, I think at this time. By George! I've heard it said that
                        Barnes and his wife were not hitting it off very well. They say she died of
                        a broken  heart. I've heard mother speak of it
                        often. I wondergreat heavens, it isn't possible that Rosalie can be
                        connected in any way with John Barnes? Anderson Crow, II wonder if there is
                        a possibility?" Bonner was quivering with excitement, wonderandunbelief.
                    "I'm workin' on that clew," said Anderson as calmly as his tremors would
                        permit. He was thrilled by the mere suggestion, but it was second nature for
                        him to act as if every discovery were his own. "Ever sence I saw him on the
                        road up there, I've been trackin' him. I tell you, Wick, he's my man. I've
                        got it almost worked out. Just as soon as these blamed robbers are moved to
                        Boggs City, er buried, I'm goin' over an' git the truth out of Mr. Barnes.
                        I've been huntin' him fer twenty-one years." Anderson, of course, was
                        forgetting that Barnes had slipped from his mind completely until Bonner
                        nudged his memory into life.
                    "It's a delicate matter, Mr. Crow. We must go about it carefully," said
                        Bonner severely. "If Mr. Barnes is really interested in her, we can't find
                        it out by blundering; if he is not interested, we can't afford to drag him
                        into it. It will require tact"
                    "Thunderation, don't you suppose I know that?" exploded Anderson. "Detectives
                        are allers tackin'. They got to, y' see, ef they're goin' to foller half a
                        dozen clews at oncet. Gee whiz, Wick, leave this thing to me! I'll git at
                        the bottom of it inside o' no time."
                    "Wait a few days, Mr. Crow," argued Bonner, playing  for time. "Don't hurry. We've got all we can do now to take
                        care of the fellows you and that young actor captured last night." The young
                        man's plan was to keep Anderson off the trail entirely and give the
                        seemingly impossible clew into the possession of the New York bureau.
                    "I don't know what I'd 'a' done ef it hadn't been fer that young feller,"
                        said the marshal. "He was right smart help to me last night." Bonner, who
                        knew the true story, suppressed a smile and loved the old man none the less
                        for his mild deception.
                    They entered the "calaboose," which now had all the looks and odours of a
                        hospital. A half-dozen doctors had made the four injured men as comfortable
                        as possible. They were stretched on mattresses in the jail dining-room,
                        guarded by a curious horde of citizens.
                    "That's Gregory!" whispered Anderson, as they neared the suffering group. He
                        pointed to the most distant cot. "That's jest the way he swore last night.
                        He must 'a' shaved in the automobile last night," though Gregory had merely
                        discarded the false whiskers he had worn for days.
                    "Wait!" exclaimed Bonner, stopping short beside the first cot. He stooped and
                        peered intently into the face of the wounded bandit. "By George!"
                    "What's up?"
                    "As I live, Mr. Crow, this fellow was one of the gang that abducted Rosalie
                        Gray last winter. I can swear to it. Don't you remember the one she tried to
                        intercede for? Briggs! That's it! Briggs!"
                    The injured man slowly opened his eyes as the name  was half shouted. A sickly grin spread slowly over his
                        pain-racked face.
                    "She tried to intercede fer me, did she?" he murmured weakly. "She said she
                        would. She was square."
                    "You were half decent to her," said Bonner. "How do you happen to be with
                        this gang? Another kidnaping scheme afloat?"
                    "Nonot that I know of. Ain't you the guy that fixed us? Say, on the dead, I
                        was goin' to do the right thing by her that night. I was duckin' the gang
                        when you slugged me. Honest, mister, I was goin' to put her friends next.
                        Say, I don't know how bad I'm hurt, but if I ever git to trial, do what you
                        can fer me, boss. On the dead, I was her friend."
                    Bonner saw pity in Anderson's face and rudely dragged him away, although
                        Bill's plea was not addressed to the old marshal.
                    "Wait for me out here, Mr. Crow," said he when they reached the office. "You
                        are overcome. I'll talk to him." He returned at once to the injured man's
                        cot.
                    "Look here, Briggs, I'll do what I can for you, but I'm afraid it won't help
                        much. What do the doctors say?"
                    "If they ain't lyin', I'll be up an' about in a few weeks. Shoulder and some
                        ribs cracked and my legs stove up. I can't move. God, that was an awful
                        tumble!" He shuddered in memory of the auto's leap.
                    "Is Sam or Davy in this gang?"
                    
                    "No; Davy's at Blackwell's Island, an' Sam told me he was goin' to Canada fer
                        his health. Jim Courtney is the leader of this gang. He sailed under the
                        name of Gregory. That's him swearin' at the rubes."
                    "The thing for you to do is to make a clean breast of it, Briggs. It will go
                        easier with you."
                    "Turn State's evidence? What good will that do when we was all caught with
                        the goods?"
                    "If you will tell us all of the inside facts concerning the abduction I'll
                        guarantee that something can be done to lighten your sentence. I am
                        Congressman Bonner's nephew."
                    "So? I thought you was the swellest hold-up man I ever met, that night out in
                        the woods. You'd do credit to Sam Welch himself. I'll tell you all I know,
                        pardner, but it ain't a great deal. It won't do me any good to keep my mouth
                        shut now, an', if you say so, it may help me to squeal. But, fer the Lord's
                        sake, have one of these rotten doctors give me something to make me sleep.
                        Don't they know what morphine is for?"
                    Growling and cursing at the doctors, Bill was moved into the office. Anderson
                        came in from the dining-room at that juncture, visibly excited.
                    "I've got a confession from Gregory," he said. "He confesses that he oughter
                        be hung."
                    "What!"
                    "That's what he said'y ginger. Here's his very words, plain as day: 'I
                        oughter be hung half a dozen times.' 'What fer?' says I. 'Fer bein' sech a
                        damned ass,' said he. 'But that ain't a hangable offence,' said  I. You know, I kinder like Gregory, spite of
                        all. 'It's the worst crime in the world,' said he. 'Then you confess you've
                        committed it?' said I, anxious to pin him right down to it, y' see.' 'You
                        bet I do. Ef they hang me it'll be because I'm a drivelling idiot, an' not
                        because I've shot one er two in my time. Nobody but an ass could be caught
                        at it, an' that's why I feel so infernal guilty. Look here, Mr. Crow, ever'
                        time you see a feller that's proved himself a downright ass, jest take him
                        out an' lynch him. He deserves it, that's all I've got to say. The greatest
                        crime in the world is criminal neglect.' Don't bother me now, Wick; I'm
                        going to write that down an' have him sign it."
                    "Look here, pard," said Bill Briggs, laboriously breaking in upon their
                        conversation; "I want to do the right thing by you an' her as fer as I can.
                        You've been good to me, an' I won't fergit it. Besides, you said you'd make
                        things easy fer me if I told you what I knowed about that job last winter.
                        Well, I'd better tell it now, 'cause I'm liable to pass in my checks before
                        these doctors git through with me. An' besides, they'll be haulin' me off to
                        the county seat in a day or two. Now, this is dead straight, I'm goin' to
                        give you. Maybe it won't help you none, but 'll give you a lead."
                    "Go on," cried Bonner breathlessly.
                    "Well, Sam Welch come to me in Branigan's place one nightthat's in Fourt'
                        Avenuean' says he's got a big job on. We went over to Davy Wolfe's house an'
                        found him an' his motherthe old fairy, you remember. Well, to make it short,
                        Sam said it was a kidnaping job an' the Wolfes was to be in on it  because they used to live in this
                        neighbourhood an' done a lot of work here way back in the seventies. There
                        was to be five thousand dollars in the job if we got that girl safe on board
                        a ship bound fer Europe. Sam told us that the guy what engineered the game
                        was a swell party an' a big boy in politics, finance, society an' ever'thin'
                        else. He could afford to pay, but he didn't want to be seen in the job.
                        Nobody but Sam ever seen his face. Sam used to be in politics some. Jest
                        before we left New York to come up here, the swell guy comes around to
                        Davy's with another guy fer final orders. See? It was as cold as has the
                        dickensan' the two of 'em was all muffled up so's we couldn't get a pipe at
                        their mugs. One of 'em was oldover fifty, I guessan' the other was a young
                        chap. I'm sure of that.
                    "They said that one or the other of 'em would be in this neighbourhood when
                        the job was pulled off; that one thousand dollars would be paid down when we
                        started; another thousand when we got 'er into the cave; and the rest when
                        we had 'er at the dock in New Yorkalive an' unhurt. See? We was given to
                        understand that she was to travel all the rest of 'er life fer 'er health. I
                        remember one thing plain: The old man said to the young 'un: 'She must not
                        know a thing of this, or it will ruin everything.' He wasn't referrin'to the
                        girl either. There was another woman in the case. They seemed mighty anxious
                        to pull the job off without this woman gettin' next.
                    "Well, we got ready to start, and the two parties coughed up the thousand
                        plunksthat is, the young  'un handed it over
                        to Sam when the old 'un told him to. Sam took three hundred and the rest of
                        us two hundred a piece. When they were lookin' from the winder to see that
                        nobody on the streets was watchin' the house, I asked Sam if he knowed
                        either of them by name. He swore he didn't, but I think he lied. But jest
                        before they left the house, I happened to look inside of the old boy's hathe
                        had a stiff dicer. There was a big gilt letter in the top of it."
                    "What was that letter?" demanded Bonner eagerly.
                    "It was a B."
                    Bonner looked at Anderson as if the floor were being drawn from under his
                        feet.
                    "The young chap said somethin' low to the old 'un about takin' the night
                        train back to the University an' comin' down again Saturday."
                    "To the University? Which one? Did he mention the name?" cried Bonner.
                    "No. That's all he said."
                    "Good heavens, if it should be!" said Bonner as if to himself.
                    "Well, we come up here an' done the job. You know about that, I guess. Sam
                        saw the young feller one night up at Boggs City, an' got instructions from
                        him. He was to help us git 'er away from here in an automobile, an' the old
                        man was to go across the ocean with 'er. That's all I know. It didn't turn
                        out their way that time, but Sam says it's bound to happen."
                    Bonner, all eagerness and excitement, quickly looked around for Anderson, but
                        the marshal had surreptitiously  left the
                        room. Then, going over to the door, he called for Anderson Crow. Bud Long
                        was there.
                    "Anderson left five minutes ago, Mr. Bonner, hurryin' like the dickens, too,"
                        he said. "He's gone to hunt up a feller named Barnes. He told me to tell you
                        when you came out."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXIV
                    Elsie Banks Returns
                    BONNER, considerably annoyed and alarmed by the marshal's
                        actions, made every effort to turn him back before he could ruin everything
                        by an encounter with Mr. Barnes. He sent men on bicycles and horseback to
                        overtake him; but the effort was unsuccessful. Mr. Crow had secured a "ride"
                        in an automobile which had brought two newspaper correspondents over from
                        Boggs City. They speeded furiously in order to catch a train for New York,
                        but agreed to drop the marshal at the big bridge, not more than a mile from
                        Judge Brewster's place.
                    Chagrined beyond expression, he made ready to follow Anderson with all haste
                        in his own machine. Rosalie hurriedly perfected preparations to accompany
                        him. She was rejoining the house party that day, was consumed by excitement
                        over the situation, and just as eager as Bonner to checkmate the untimely
                        operations of poor old Anderson Crow.
                    The marshal had more than half an hour's start of them. Bonner was his own
                        chauffeur and he was a reckless one to-day. Luck was against him at the
                        outset. The vigorous old detective inspired to real speed, for the first
                        time in his lackadaisacal life, left the newspaper men at the bridge nearly
                        three-quarters of an hour before Bonner passed the same spot,  driving furiously up the hill toward Judge
                        Brewster's.
                    "If your bothersome old daddy gets his eyes on Barnes before I can head him
                        off, dearest, the jig will be up," groaned Bonner, the first words he had
                        spoken in miles. "Barnes will be on his guard and ready for anything. The
                        oldpardon me, for saying itthe old jay ought to know the value of discretion
                        in a case like this."
                    "Poor old daddy," she sighed, compassion in her heart. "He thinks he is doing
                        it for the best. Wicker, I hope it isit is not Mr. Barnes," she added,
                        voicing a thought which had been struggling in her mind for a long time.
                    "Why not, dearest?"
                    "It would mean one of two things. Either he does not want to recognise me as
                        his childor cannot, which is even worse. Wicker, I don't want to know the
                        truth. I am afraidI am afraid."
                    She was trembling like a leaf and there was positive distress in her eyes,
                        eyes half covered by lids tense with alarm.
                    "Don't feel that way about it, dear," cried he, recovering from his
                        astonishment and instantly grasping the situation as it must have appeared
                        to her. "To tell you the truth, I do not believe that Mr. Barnes is related
                        to you in any way. If he is connected with the case at all, it is in the
                        capacity of attorney."
                    "But he is supposed to be an honourable man."
                    "True, and I still believe him to be. It does not  seem possible that he can be engaged in such work as this. We
                        are going altogether on suppositionputting two and two together, don't you
                        know, and hoping they will stick. But, in any event, we must not let any
                        chance slip by. If he is interested, we must bring him to time. It may mean
                        the unravelling of the whole skein, dear. Don't look so distressed. Be
                        brave. It doesn't matter what we learn in the end, I love you just the same.
                        You shall be my wife."
                    "I do love you, Wicker. I will always love you."
                    "Dear little sweetheart!"
                    They whirled up to the lodge gate at Judge Brewster's place at last, the
                        throbbing machine coming to a quick stop. Before he called out to the lodge
                        keeper, Bonner impulsively drew her gloveless hand to his lips.
                    "Nothing can make any difference now," he said.
                    The lodge keeper, in reply to Bonner's eager query, informed them that Mr.
                        Barnes had gone away ten or fifteen minutes before with an old man who
                        claimed to be a detective, and who had placed the great lawyer under
                        arrest.
                    "Good Lord!" gasped Bonner with a sinking heart.
                    "It's an outrage, sir! Mr. Barnes is the best man in the world. He never
                        wronged no one, sir. There's an 'orrible mistake, sir," groaned the lodge
                        keeper. "Judge Brewster is in Boggs City, and the man wouldn't wait for his
                        return. He didn't even want to tell Mr. Barnes what 'e was charged
                        with."
                    "Did you ever hear of anything so idiotic?" roared Bonner. Rosalie was white
                        and red by turn. "What direction did they take?"
                    
                    "The constable told Mr. Barnes he'd 'ave to go to Tinkletown with 'im at
                        once, sir, even if he 'ad to walk all the way. The old chap said something,
                        sir, about a man being there who could identify him on sight. Mr. Barnes 'ad
                        to laugh, sir, and appeared to take it all in good humour. He said he'd go
                        along of 'im, but he wouldn't walk. So he got his own auto out, sir, and
                        they went off together. They took the short cut, sir, by the ferry road,
                        'eaded for Tinkletown. Mr. Barnes said he'd be back before noon, sirif he
                        wasn't lynched."
                    "It's all over," groaned Bonner dejectedly. Something had slipped from under
                        his feet and he was dangling in space, figuratively speaking. "There's
                        nothing to do, Rosalie, except to chase them down. Mr. Crow has ruined
                        everything. I'll leave you at Bonner Place with mother and Edith, and I'll
                        hurry back to Tinkletown."
                    The excitement was too much for Rosalie's nerves. She was in a state of
                        physical collapse when he set her down at his uncle's summer home half an
                        hour later. Leaving her to explain the situation to the curious friends, he
                        set speed again for Tinkletown, inwardly cursing Anderson Crow for a
                        meddling old fool.
                    In the meantime Tinkletown was staring open-mouthed upon a new sensation. The
                        race between Anderson and Bonner was hardly under way when down the main
                        street of the town came a jaded team and surrey. Behind the driver sat a
                        pretty young woman with an eager expression on her pale face, her gaze bent
                        intently on the turn in the street which hid 
                        Anderson Crow's home from view. Beside the young woman lounged another of
                        her sex, much older, and to all appearances, in a precarious state of
                        health. The young men along the street gasped in amazement and then ventured
                        to doff their timid hats to the young woman, very much as if they were
                        saluting a ghost. Few of them received a nod of recognition from Elsie
                        Banks, one-time queen of all their hearts.
                    Roscoe Crow bounded out to the gate when he saw who was in the carriage,
                        first shouting to his mother and sisters, who were indoors receiving
                        congratulations and condolences from their neighbours.
                    Miss Banks immediately inquired if she could see Rosalie.
                    "She ain't here," said Roscoe. "She's away fer a monthover at the Bonners'.
                        He's her feller, you know. Ma! Here's Miss Banks! Edner! Sue!" Mrs. Crow and
                        the girls flew out to the gate, babbling their surprise and greetings.
                    "This is my mother," introduced the young lady. "We have just come from New
                        York, Mrs. Crow. We sail for England this week, and I must see Rosalie
                        before we go. How can we get to Mr. Bonner's place?"
                    "It's across the river, about twelve miles from here," said Mrs. Crow. "Come
                        in and rest yourselves. You don't have to go back to-day, do you? Ain't you
                        married yet?"
                    "No, Mrs. Crow," responded Elsie, with a stiff, perfunctory smile. "Thank
                        you, we cannot stop. It is necessary that we return to New York to-night,
                        but  I must see Rosalie before going. You see,
                        Mrs. Crow, I do not expect to return to America. We are to live in London
                        forever, I fear. It may be the last chance I'll have to see Rosalie. I must
                        go on to Bonner Place to-day. But, dear me, I am so tired and hot, and it is
                        so far to drive," she cried ruefully. "Do you know the way, driver?" The
                        driver gruffly admitted that he did not. Roscoe eagerly bridged the
                        difficulty by offering to act as pathfinder.
                    At first Mrs. Banks tried to dissuade her daughter from undertaking the long
                        trip, but the girl was obstinate. Her mother then flatly refused to
                        accompany her, complaining of her head and heart. In the end the elder lady
                        decided to accept Mrs. Crow's invitation to remain at the house until
                        Elsie's return.
                    "I shall bring Rosalie back with me, mother," said Elsie as she prepared to
                        drive away. Mrs. Banks, frail and wan, bowed her head listlessly and turned
                        to follow her hostess indoors. With Roscoe in the seat with the driver, the
                        carriage started briskly off down the shady street, headed for the ferry
                        road and Bonner Place.
                    To return to Anderson Crow and his precipitancy. Just as the lodge keeper had
                        said, the marshal, afoot and dusty, descended upon Mr. Barnes without
                        ceremony. The great lawyer was strolling about the grounds when his old
                        enemy arrived. He recognised the odd figure as it approached among the
                        trees.
                    "Hello, Mr. Crow!" he called cheerily. "Are you going to arrest me again?" He
                        advanced to shake hands.
                    
                    "Yes, sir; you are my prisoner," said Anderson, panting, but stern. "I know
                        you, Mr. Barnes. It won't do you any good to deny it."
                    "Come in and sit down. You look tired," said Barnes genially, regarding his
                        words as a jest; but Anderson proudly stood his ground.
                    "You can't come any game with me. It won't do you no good to be perlite, my
                        man. This time you don't git away."
                    
                    "You don't mean to say you are in earnest?" cried Barnes.
                    "I never joke when on duty. Come along with me. You c'n talk afterward. Your
                        hirelin' is in jail an' he c'n identify you; so don't resist."
                    "Wait a moment, sir. What is the charge?"
                    
                    "I don't know yet. You know better'n I do what it is."
                    "Look here, Mr. Crow. You arrested me the first time I ever saw you, and now
                        you yank me up again, after all these years. Haven't you anything else to do
                        but arrest me by mistake? Is that your only occupation?"
                    Anderson sputtered indignantly. Driven to it, he informed John Barnes that he
                        was charged with kidnaping, attempted murder, polygamy, child desertion, and
                        nearly everything else under the sun. Barnes, at first indignant, finally
                        broke into a hearty laugh. He magnanimously agreed to accompany his captor
                        to Tinkletown. Not only that, but he provided the means of transportation.
                        To the intense dismay of the servants, he merrily departed with Mr. Crow, a
                        prisoner operating his own patrol wagon. The two were smoking the captive's
                        best cigars.
                    "It's mighty nice of you, Mr. Barnes, to let us use your autermobile," said
                        Anderson, benignly puffing away as they bowled off through the dust. "If
                        would 'a' been a long walk. I'll speak a good word fer you fer this."
                    "Don't mention it, old chap. I rather enjoy it. It's been uncommonly dull up
                        here. I did not get away as soon as I expected, you see. So I am charged
                        with being Rosalie's father, eh? And deserting her? And kidnaping her? By
                        jove, I ought to be hung for all this!"
                    "'Tain't nothin' to laugh at, my friend. You ought to be ashamed of yourself.
                        I was onto you the day  you stopped me in the
                        road an' ast about her. What a fool you was. Reg'lar dead give-away."
                    "See here, Mr. Crow, I don't like to upset your hopes and calculations," said
                        Barnes soberly. "I did that once before, you remember. That was years ago.
                        You were wrong then, and you are wrong now. Shall I tell you why I am
                        interested in this pretty waif of yours?"
                    
                    "It ain't necessary," protested the marshal.
                    "I'll tell you just the same. My son met her in New York while he was at
                        school. He heard her story from mutual friends and repeated it to me. I was
                        naturally interested, and questioned you. He said she was very pretty. That
                        is the whole story, my dear sir."
                    
                    "That's all very purty, but how about the B in your hat?"
                    "I don't understand. Oh, you mean the political bee?"
                    "Politics, your granny! I mean the 'nitial that Briggs saw. No; hold on!
                        Don't answer. Don't say anything that'll incriminate yourself."
                    "I never had an initial in my hat, and I don't know Briggs. Mr. Crow, you are
                        as crazy as a loon." He prepared to bring the machine to a standstill. "I'm
                        going home. You can ride back with me or get out and walk on, just as you
                        please."
                    "Hold on! Don't do that! I'll see that you're paid fer the use of the
                        machine. Besides, consarn ye, you're my prisoner." This was too much for
                        Barnes. He laughed long and loud, and he did not turn back.
                    Just beyond the ferry they turned aside to permit a carriage to pass. A boy
                        on the box with the driver shouted frantically after them, and Anderson
                        tried to stop the machine himself.
                    "Stop her!" he cried; "that's Roscoe, my boy. Hold on! Who's that with him?
                        Why, by cracky, it's Miss Banks! Gee whiz, has she come back here to teach
                        again? Whoa! Turn her around, Mr. Barnes. They are motionin' fer us to come
                        back. 'Pears to be important, too."
                    Barnes obligingly turned around and ran back to where the carriage was
                        standing. An hour later the automobile rolled into the driveway at Bonner
                        Place, and Anderson Crow, a glorious triumph in his face, handed Miss Banks
                        from the tonneau and into the  arms of Rosalie
                        Gray, who at first had mistaken the automobile for another. Pompous to the
                        point of explosion, Anderson waved his hand to the party assembled on the
                        veranda, strolled around to Mr. Barnes's seat and acquired a light for his
                        cigar with a nonchalance that almost overcame his one-time prisoner, and
                        then said, apparently to the whole world, for he addressed no one in
                        particular:
                    "I knowed I could solve the blamed thing if they'd jest give me time."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXV
                    The Story is Told
                    ELSIE BANKS had a small and select audience in Mrs.
                        Bonner's room upstairs. She had come from New Yorkor from California,
                        strictly speakingto furnish the narrative which was to set Rosalie Gray's
                        mind at rest forever-more. It was not a pleasant task; it was not an easy
                        sacrifice for this spirited girl who had known luxury all her life. Her
                        spellbound hearers were Mrs. Bonner and Edith, Wicker Bonner, Anderson Crow,
                        Rosalie, and John E. Barnes, who, far from being a captive of the law, was
                        now Miss Gray's attorney, retained some hours before by his former
                        captor.
                    "I discharge you, sir," Anderson had said, after hearing Miss Bank's
                        statement in the roadway. "You are no longer a prisoner. Have you anything
                        to say, sir?"
                    "Nothing, Mr. Crow, except to offer my legal services to you and your ward in
                        this extraordinary matter. Put the matter in my hands, sir, and she shall
                        soon come into her own, thanks to this young lady. I may add that, as I am
                        not in the habit of soliciting clients, it is not my intention in this
                        instance to exact a fee from your ward. My services are quite free, given in
                        return, Mr. Crow, for the magnanimous way in which you have taken me into
                        your confidence ever  since I have known you.
                        It is an honour to have been arrested by you; truthfully it is no
                        disgrace."
                    In the privacy of Mrs. Bonner's sitting-room, Elsie Banks, dry-eyed and
                        bitter, told the story of her life. I cannot tell it as she did, for she was
                        able to bring tears to the eyes of her listeners. It is only for me to
                        relate the bare facts, putting them into her words as closely as possible.
                        Rosalie Gray, faint with astonishment and incredulity, a lump in her throat
                        that would not go down, and tears in her eyes, leaned back in an easy-chair
                        and watched her unhappy friend.
                    "I shall provide Mr. Barnes with proof of everything I say," said Miss Banks.
                        "There can be no difficulty, Rosalie dear, in confirming all that I have to
                        tell. If you will permit me to relate the story without interruption and
                        afterward let me go my way without either pity or contempt, I shall be, oh,
                        so grateful to you allespecially to you, dear Rosalie. Believe me I love you
                        with my whole soul.
                    "I have come to you voluntarily, and my mother, who is in Tinkletown, in
                        resigning herself to the calls of conscience, is now happier than she has
                        ever been before. A more powerful influence than her own will or her own
                        honour, an influence that was evil to the core, inspired her to countenance
                        this awful wrong. It also checkmated every good impulse she may have had to
                        undo it in after years. That influence came from Oswald Banks, a base
                        monster to whom my mother was married when I was a year old. My mother was
                        the daughter of Lord Abbott Brace, but married my own father, George Stuart,
                        who was a  brilliant but radical newspaper
                        writer in London, against her father's wish. For this he cast her off and
                        disinherited her. Grandfather hated him and his views, and he could not
                        forgive my mother even after my father died, which was two years after their
                        marriage.
                    "Lord Richard Brace, my mother's only brother, married the daughter of the
                        Duchess of B. You, Rosalie, are Lady Rosalie Brace of Brace Hall, Wshire,
                        England, the true granddaughter of General Lord Abbott Brace, one of the
                        noblest and richest men of his day. Please let me go on; I cannot endure the
                        interruptions. The absolute, unalterable proof of what I say shall be
                        established through the confession of my own mother, in whose possession
                        lies every document necessary to give back to you that which she would have
                        given to me.
                    "Your mother died a few weeks after you were born, and Sir Richard, who loved
                        my mother in the face of his father's displeasure, placed you in her care,
                        while he rushed off, heart-broken, to find solace in Egypt. It is said that
                        he hated you because you were the cause of her death. On the day after your
                        birth, old Lord Brace changed his will and bequeathed a vast amount of
                        unentailed property to you, to be held in trust by your father until you
                        were twenty-one years of age. I was almost two years old at the time, and
                        the old man, unexpectedly compassionate, inserted a provision which, in the
                        event that you were to die before that time, gave all this money to me on my
                        twenty-first birthday. The interest on this money,  amounting to five thousand pounds annually, was to go to you
                        regularly, in one case, or to me, in the other. Oswald Banks was an
                        American, whom my mother had met in London several years prior to her first
                        marriage. He was the London representative of a big Pennsylvania
                        manufacturing concern. He was ambitious, unscrupulous and clever beyond
                        conception. He still is all of these and more, for he is now a coward.
                    "Well, it was he who concocted the diabolical scheme to one day get
                        possession of your inheritance. He coerced my poor mother into acquiescense,
                        and she became his wretched tool instead of an honoured wife and helpmate.
                        One night, when you were three weeks old, the house in which we lived was
                        burned to the ground, the inmates narrowly escaping. So narrow was the
                        escape, in fact, that you were said to have been left behind in the
                        confusion, and the world was told, the next day, that the granddaughter of
                        Lord Brace had been destroyed by the flames.
                    "The truth, however, was not told. My stepfather did not dare to go so far as
                        to kill you. It was he who caused the fire, but he had you removed to a
                        small hotel in another part of the city some hours earlier, secretly, of
                        course, but in charge of a trusted maid. My mother was responsible for this.
                        She would not listen to his awful plan to leave you in the house. But you
                        might just as well have died. No one was the wiser and you were given up as
                        lost. A week later, my mother and Mr. Banks started for America. You and I
                        were with them, but you went as the daughter of a maid-servantEllen
                        Hayes.
                    
                    "This is the story as my mother has told it to me after all these years. My
                        stepfather's plan, of course, was to place you where you could never be
                        found, and then to see to it that our grandfather did not succeed in
                        changing his will. Moreover, he was bound and determined that he himself
                        should be named as trusteewhen the fortune came over at Lord Brace's death.
                        That part of it turned out precisely as he had calculated. Let me go on a
                        few months in advance of my story. Lord Brace died, and the will was
                        properly probated and the provisions carried out. Brace Hall and the estates
                        went to your father and the bequest came to me, for you were considered
                        dead. My stepfather was made trustee. He gave bond in England and America, I
                        believe. In any event, the fortune was to be mine when I reached the age of
                        twenty-one, but each year the income, nearly twenty-five thousand dollars,
                        was to be paid to my stepfather as trustee, to be safely invested by him. My
                        mother's name was not mentioned in the document, except once, to identify me
                        as the beneficiary. I can only add to this phase of the hateful conspiracy,
                        that for nineteen years my stepfather received this income, and that he used
                        it to establish his own fortune. By investing what was supposed to be my
                        money, he has won his own way to wealth.
                    "Mr. Banks decided that the operations were safest from this side of the
                        Atlantic. He and my mother took up their residence in New York, and it has
                        been their home ever since. He spent the first half year after your
                        suspected death in London, solely for the purpose  of establishing himself in Lord Brace's favour. Within a year
                        after the death of Lord Brace your father was killed by a poacher on the
                        estate. He had but lately returned from Egypt, and was in full control of
                        the lands and property attached to Brace Hall. If my stepfather had designs
                        upon Brace Hall, they failed, for the lands and the title went at once to
                        your father's cousin, Sir Harry Brace, the present lord.
                    "So much for the conditions in England then and now. I now return to that
                        part of the story which most interests and concerns you. My poor mother was
                        compelled, within a fortnight after we landed in New York, to give up the
                        dangerous infant who was always to hang like a cloud between fortune and
                        honour. The maid-servant was paid well for her silence. By the way, she died
                        mysteriously soon after coming to America, but not before giving to my
                        mother a signed paper setting forth clearly every detail in so far as it
                        bore upon her connection with the hateful transaction. Conscience was
                        forever at work in my mother's heart; honour was constantly struggling to
                        the surface, only to be held back by fear of and loyalty to the man she
                        loved.
                    "It was decided that the most humane way to put you out of existence was to
                        leave you on the doorstep of some kindly disposed person, far from New York.
                        My stepfather and my mother deliberately set forth on this so-called mission
                        of mercy. They came north, and by chance, fell in with a resident of Boggs
                        City while in the station at Albany. They were debating which way to turn
                        for the next step. My mother was  firm in the
                        resolve that you should be left in the care of honest, reliable,
                        tender-hearted people, who would not abuse the trust she was to impose. The
                        Boggs City man said he had been in Albany to see about a bill in the
                        legislature, which was to provide for the erection of a monument in
                        Tinkletownwhere a Revolutionary battle had been fought. It was he who spoke
                        of Anderson Crow, and it was his stories of your goodness and generosity,
                        Mr. Crow, that caused them to select you as the man who was to have Rosalie,
                        and, with her, the sum of one thousand dollars a year for your trouble and
                        her needs.
                    "My mother's description of that stormy night in February, more than
                        twenty-one years ago, is the most pitiful thing I have ever listened to.
                        Together they made their way to Tinkletown, hiring a vehicle in Boggs City
                        for the purpose. Mr. Banks left the basket on your porch while mother stood
                        far down the street and waited for him, half frozen and heartsick. Then they
                        hurried out of town and were soon safely on their way to New York. It was
                        while my stepfather was in London, later on, that mother came up to see
                        Rosalie and make that memorable first payment to Mr. Crow. How it went on
                        for years, you all know. It was my stepfather's cleverness that made it so
                        impossible to learn the source from which the mysterious money came.
                    "We travelled constantly, always finding new places of interest in which my
                        mother's conscience could be eased by contact with beauty and excitement.
                        Gradually she became hardened to the conditions, for, after  all, was it not her own child who was to be
                        enriched by the theft and the deception? Mr. Banks constantly forced that
                        fact in upon her mother-love and her vanity. Through it all, however, you
                        were never neglected nor forgotten. My mother had your welfare always in
                        mind. It was she who saw that you and I were placed at the same school in
                        New York, and it was she who saw that your training in a way was as good as
                        it could possibly be without exciting risk.
                    "Of course, I knew nothing of all this. I was rolling in wealth and luxury,
                        but not in happiness. Instinctively I loathed my stepfather. He was hard,
                        cruel, unreasonable. It was because of him that I left school and afterward
                        sought to earn my own living. You know, Rosalie, how Tom Reddon came into my
                        life. He was the son of William Reddon, my stepfather's business partner,
                        who had charge of the Western branch of the concern in Chicago. We lived in
                        Chicago for several years, establishing the business. Mr. Banks was until
                        recently president of the Banks & Reddon Iron Works. Last year, you
                        doubtless know, the plant was sold to the great combine and the old company
                        passed out of existence. This act was the result of a demand from England
                        that the trust under which he served be closed and struck from the records.
                        It was his plan to settle the matter, turn the inheritance over to me
                        according to law, and then impose upon my inexperience for all time to come.
                        The money, while mine literally, was to be his in point of possession.
                    "But he had reckoned without the son of his partner.  Tom Reddon in some way learned the secret, and he was
                        compelled to admit the young man into all of his plans. This came about some
                        three years ago, while I was in school. I had known Tom Reddon in Chicago.
                        He won my love. I cannot deny it, although I despise him to-day more deeply
                        than I ever expect to hate again. He was even more despicable than my
                        stepfather. Without the faintest touch of pity, he set about to obliterate
                        every chance Rosalie could have had for restitution. Time began to prove to
                        me that he was not the man I thought him to be. His nature revealed itself;
                        and I found I could not marry him. Besides, my mother was beginning to
                        repent. She awoke from her stupor of indifference and strove in every way to
                        circumvent the plot of the two conspirators, so far as I was concerned. The
                        strain told on her at last, and we went to California soon after my
                        ridiculous flight from Tinkletown last winter. It was not until after that
                        adventure that I began to see deep into the wretched soul of Tom Reddon.
                    "Then came the most villainous part of the whole conspiracy. Reddon, knowing
                        full well that exposure was possible at any time, urged my stepfather to
                        have you kidnaped and hurried off to some part of the world where you could
                        never be found. Even Reddon did not have the courage to kill you. Neither
                        had the heart to commit actual murder. It was while we were at Colonel
                        Randall's place that the abduction took place, you remember. Mr. Banks and
                        Tom Reddon had engaged their men in New York. These desperadoes came to
                        Boggs City while Tom was here to  watch their
                        operations. All the time Mr. Crow was chasing us down Reddon was laughing in
                        his sleeve, for he knew what was to happen during the marshal's absence. You
                        know how successfully he managed the job. It was my stepfather's fault that
                        it did not succeed.
                    "My mother, down in New York, driven to the last extreme, had finally turned
                        on him and demanded that he make restitution to Rosalie Gray, as we had come
                        to know her. Of course, there was a scene and almost a catastrophe. He was
                        so worried over the position she was taking, that he failed to carry out his
                        part of the plans, which were to banish Rosalie forever from this country.
                        You were to have been taken to Paris, dear, and kept forever in one of those
                        awful sanitoriums. They are worse than the grave. In the meantime, the delay
                        gave Mr. Bonner a chance to rescue you from the kidnapers.
                    "Shortly after reaching New York I quarrelled with Thomas Reddon, and my
                        mother and I fled to California. He followed us and sought a reconciliation.
                        I loathed him so much by this time, that I appealed to my mother. It was
                        then that she told me this miserable story, and that is why we are in
                        Tinkletown today. We learned in some way of the plot to kidnap you and to
                        place you where you could not be found. The inhuman scheme of my stepfather
                        and his adviser was to have my mother declared insane and confined in an
                        asylum, where her truthful utterances could never be heard by the world, or
                        if they were, as the ravings of a mad woman.
                    
                    "The day that we reached New York my mother placed the
                        documents and every particle of proof in her possession in the hands of the
                        British Consul. The story was told to him and also to certain attorneys. A
                        member of his firm visited my stepfather and confronted him with the
                        charges. That very night Mr. Banks disappeared, leaving behind him a note,
                        in which he said we should never see his face again. Tom Reddon has gone to
                        Europe. My mother and I expect to sail this week for England, and I have
                        come to ask Rosalie to accompany us. I want her to stand at last on the soil
                        which knows her to be Rosalie Brace. The fortune which was mine last week is
                        hers to-day. We are not poor, Rosalie dear, but we are not as rich as we
                        were when we had all that belonged to you."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXVI
                    Anderson Crow's Resignation
                    SOME days later Anderson Crow returned to Tinkletown from
                        New York, where he had seen Rosalie Bonner and her husband off for England,
                        accompanied by Mrs. Banks and Elsie, who had taken passage on the same
                        steamer. He was attired in a brand-new suit of blue serge, a panama hat, and
                        patent-leather shoes which hurt his feet. Moreover, he carried a new walking
                        stick with a great gold head and there was a huge pearl scarf-pin in his
                        necktie Besides all this, his hair and beard had been trimmed to perfection
                        by a Holland House barber. Every morning his wife was obliged to run a
                        flatiron over his trousers to perpetuate the crease. Altogether Anderson was
                        a revelation not only to his family and to the town at large, but to himself
                        as well. He fairly staggered every time he got a glimpse of himself in the
                        shop windows.
                    All day long he strolled about the street, from store to store, or leaned
                        imposingly against every post that presented itself conveniently. Naturally
                        he was the talk of the town.
                    "Gee-mi-nently!" ejaculated Alf Reesling, catching sight of him late in the
                        day. "Is that the president?"
                    "It's Anderson Crow," explained Blootch Peabody.
                    "Who's dead?" demanded Alf.
                    "What's that got to do with it?"
                    
                    "Why, whose clothes is he wearin'?" pursued Alf, utterly overcome by the
                        picture.
                    "You'd better not let him hear you say that," cautioned Isaac Porter. "He got
                        'em in New York. He says young Mr. Bonner give 'em to him fer a weddin'
                        present. Rosalie give him a pearl dingus to wear in his cravat, an' derned
                        ef he don't have to wear a collar all the time now. That lawyer Barnes give
                        him the cane. Gee whiz! he looks like a king! don't he?"
                    At that moment Anderson approached the group in front of Lamson's store. He
                        walked with a stateliness that seemed to signify pain in his lower
                        extremities more than it did dignity higher up.
                    "How fer out do you reckon they are by this time, Blootch?" he asked
                        earnestly.
                    " 'Bout ten miles further than when you asked while ago," responded Blootch,
                        consulting his watch.
                    "Well, that ought to get 'em to Liverpool sometime soon then. They took a
                        powerful fast ship. Makes it in less 'n six days, they say. Let's see. They
                        sailed day before yesterday. They must be out sight o' land by this
                        time."
                    "Yes, unless they're passin' some islands," agreed Blootch.
                    "Thunderation! What air you talkin' about?" said Anderson scornfully. "Cuby
                        an' Porty Rico's been passed long ago. Them islands ain't far from Boston.
                        Don't you remember how skeered the Boston people were durin' the war with
                        Spain? Feared the Spanish shells might go a little high an' smash up the
                        town? Islands nothin'! They've got away out 
                        into deep water by this time, boys. 'y Gosh, I'm anxious about Rosalie.
                        S'posin' that derned boat struck a rock er upset er somethin'! They never
                        could swim ashore."
                    "Oh, there's no danger, Anderson," said Mr. Lamson. "Those boats are
                        perfectly safe. I suppose they're going to telegraph you when they
                        land."
                    "No, they're goin' to cable, Wick says. Doggone, I'm glad it's all settled.
                        You don't know how hard I've worked all these years to find out who her
                        parents was. Course I knowed they were foreigners all the time, but Rosalie
                        never had no brogue, so you c'n see how I was threw off the track. She
                        talked jest as good American as we do. I was mighty glad when I finally run
                        Miss Banks to earth." The crowd was in no position to argue the point with
                        him. "That Miss Banks is a fine girl, boys. She done the right thing. An' so
                        did my RosalieI mean Lady Rosalie. She made Elsie keep some of the money.
                        Mr. Barnes is goin' to England next week to help settle the matter for Lady
                        Rosalie. He says she's got nearly a million dollars tied up some'eres. It's
                        easy sailin', though, 'cause Mrs. Banks says so. Did you hear what Rosalie
                        said when she got convinced about bein' an English lady?"
                    "No; what did she say?"
                    "She jest stuck up that derned little nose o' hern an' said: 'I am an
                        American as long as I live.' "
                    "Hooray!" shouted Alf Reesling, throwing Isaac Porter's new hat into the air.
                        The crowd joined in the cheering.
                    
                    "Did I ever tell you how I knowed all along that it was a man who left
                        Rosalie on the porch?" asked Anderson.
                    "Why, you allus told me it was a woman," said Alf. "You accused me of bein'
                        her."
                    "Shucks! Woman nothin'! I knowed it was a man, Here's somethin' you don't
                        know, Alf. I sized up the foot-prints on my front steps jest after sheI mean
                        hedropped the basket. The toes turned outward, plain as day, right there in
                        the snow." He paused to let the statement settle in their puzzled brains.
                        "Don't you know that one hunderd percent of the women turn their toes in
                        when they go upstairs? To keep from hookin' into their skirts? Thunder, you
                        oughter of thought of that, too!"
                    Some one had posted Anderson on this peculiarly feminine trait, and he was
                        making the best of it. Incidentally, it may be said that every man in
                        Tinkletown took personal observations in order to satisfy himself.
                    "Any one seen Pastor MacFarlane?" went on Anderson. "Wick Bonner give me a
                        hunderd dollar bill to give him fer performin' the ceremony up to our house
                        that night. G'way, Ed Higgins! I'm not goin' 'round showin' that bill to
                        people. If robbers got onto the fact I have it, they'd probably try to steal
                        it. I don't keer if you ain't seen that much money in one piece. That's none
                        of my lookout. Say, are you comin' to the town meetin' to-night?"
                    They were all at the meeting of the town board that night. It was held, as
                        usual, in Odd Fellows' Hall,  above Peterson's
                        dry-goods store, and there was not so much as standing room in the place
                        when the clerk read the minutes of the last meeting. Word had gone forth
                        that something unusual was to happen. It was not idle rumour, for soon after
                        the session began, Anderson Crow arose to address the board.
                    "Gentlemen," he said, his voice trembling with emotion, "I have come before
                        you as I notified you I would. I hereby tender my resignation as marshal of
                        Tinkletown, street commissioner and chief of the fire departmentan' any
                        other job I may have that has slipped my mind. I now suggest that you
                        app'int Mr. Ed Higgins in my place. He has wanted the job fer some time, an'
                        says it won't interfere with his business any more than it did with mine. I
                        have worked hard all these years an' I feel that I ought to have a rest.
                        Besides, it has got to be so that thieves an' other criminals won't visit
                        Tinkletown on account o' me, an' I think the town is bein' held back
                        considerable in that way. What's the use havin' a marshal an' a jail ef
                        nobody comes here to commit crimes? They have to commit 'em in New York City
                        er Chicago nowadays, jest because it's safer there than it is here. Look at
                        this last case I had. Wasn't that arranged in New York? Well, it shouldn't
                        be that way. Even the train robbers put up their job in New York. I feel
                        that the best interests of the town would be served ef I resign an' give the
                        criminals a chance. You all know Ed Higgins. He will ketch 'em if anybody
                        kin. I move that he be app'inted."
                    The motion prevailed, as did the vote of thanks,  which was vociferously called for in behalf of Anderson Crow.
                    "You honour me," said the ex-marshal, when the "ayes" died away. "I promise
                        to help Marshal Higgins in ever' way possible. I'll tell him jest what to do
                        in everything. I wish to say that I am not goin' out of the detective
                        business, however. I'm goin' to open an agency of my own here. All sorts of
                        detective business will be done at reasonable prices. I had these cards
                        printed at the Banner office to-day, an' Mr. Squires is
                        goin' to run an ad. fer me fer a year in the paper."
                    He proudly handed a card to the president of the board and then told the
                        crowd that each person present could have one by applying to his son Roscoe,
                        who would be waiting in the hallway after the meeting. The card read:
                    "Anderson Crow, Detective. All kinds of cases. Taken and
                        Satisfaction Guaranteed. Berth mysteries a Specialty."
                    Mrs. Bonner, upon hearing of his resignation the next day, just as she was
                        leaving for Boston, drily remarked to the Congressman:
                    "I still maintain that Anderson Crow is utterly impossible."
                    No doubt the entire world, aside from the village of Tinkletown, agrees with
                        her in that opinion.
                
                THE END.
            
        
    
