
     ----CITATION---- 
        Ade, George, 1866-1944. Doc' Horne: A Story of the Streets and Town: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2322
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                DOC' HORNE
                
            
            
            
                
                    DOC' HORNE
                    A Story of the Streets and Town
                
                BY
                    GEORGE ADE AUHOR OF
                    "ARTIE," "PINK MARSH," ETC. PICTURES BY
                    JOHN T. McCUTCHEON
                
                    NEW YORK
                    DUFFIELD & COMPANY
                    1906
                
            
            
            
                COPYRIGHT, 1899, BY HERBERT S. STONE & CO.
                
                    This edition published July, 1906, by Duffield & Company
                
                THIS STORY IS REWRITTEN INPART FROM ASERIES OF ARTICIES THAT FIRST APPEARD
                    IN THE CHICAGO RECORD, AND THANKS ARE DUE TO MR. VICTOR F. LAWCON FOR PERMISSION TO USE THIS
                    MATERIAL
                THE TROW PRESS, N. Y.
            
        
        
            
            
                Doc' Horne
                
                    CHAPTER I
                    THE HIGH WATER IN '57
                    "If they had built the Mississippi levees as I told them to, long before the
                        war, they wouldn't be washed away every year," said Doc' Home.
                    "You've been through that flood country, have you, Doc?"
                        asked the lush.
                    "As often as you have fingers and toes," replied Doc.'
                        "I think it was in 1857 that I went out from Cairo in charge of a relief expedition,
                        and the river was so high that, as far as you could see in any direction, nothing but tree tops
                        and the roofs of houses slowed above the water."
                    "Those floods must be awful," said the dentist.
                    "My uncle didn't think so," remarked the lush, with a
                        palpable wink at the lightning dentist. "My uncle was down south  for his health, and was living in a small house a short distance from
                        Vicksburg. He occupied an upper room, and his two negro servants slept downstairs. Well, when
                        the flood season came, his neighbors were uneasy, and some of them moved away, but he was never
                        much of a man to worry about trouble until it actually came. He believed the levee was strong
                        enough to hold the current, and he said that even if there was an overflow it wouldn't
                        do any more harm than dampen his front yard. He took his regular sleep every night, and
                        didn't fret Now what do you think? This will interest you, Doc'."
                    "Yes?" said Doc', inquiringly.
                    "Yes, sir, he awoke one morning and saw a tree just outside his window. He
                        didn't know what to make of it. There hadn't been any tree there the night
                        before. He began to think some one had worked a miracle on him, so he got up and looked out of
                        the window, and there was a whole clump of timber in front of him, and the whole country, as far
                        as he could see, was inundated. You see, the levee had broken during the night and flooded the
                        country for miles. The water simply lifted my uncle's  house off its wooden foundation and floated it a half-mile or so, and lodged
                        it against this patch of timber. He slept through it all."
                    "Were the servants drowned?" asked the dentist.
                    "No, they ran away. They were so frightened they didn't even stop
                        to arouse my uncle, and he always said he was glad they hadn't aroused him, because he
                        hated to get up in the night. If I remember it right, the two servants were found in a
                        cottonwood tree the next day. It may have been some other kind of a tree, but I think it was a
                        cottonwood."
                    
                        THE RACE-TRACK MAN.
                    
                    "It's not unlikely," said Doc', with a look of
                        dry disdain at the lush. "That country used to be full of cottonwood trees when I was
                        along there making contracts for steamboat fuel."
                    "Your uncle must have had a hard time  getting his house back to where it belonged," suggested the
                        race-track man.
                    "I suppose he waited until there was another flood, and then let it float
                        back," said the dentist.
                    "Now, here; this is rightwhat I'm telling you," said the
                        lush, who pretended to resent these interruptions. "He didn't have to move the
                        house at all. The new location over by the patch of timber suited him so well that he bought the
                        land, had a new foundation put under the house, and it so happened that the flood set it down
                        almost exactly on a north and south line, so that it didn't have to be moved more than
                        three inches to make it face exactly east. The flood brought the stable along, too, and dropped
                        it just a short distance from the house, so that uncle didn't have very many things to
                        move over from the old location."
                    "Would you like to have a true story?" asked Doc' Home.
                        "When I was out in charge of this same relief expedition, we picked up in mid-river a
                        cradle in which a baby was asleep. We learned afterward that the baby had floated some thirty
                        miles before we found it. I presume that the  water
                        gave a gentle rocking movement to the cradle and kept the child asleep."
                    There was a pause of a few moments, and then the dentist said: "Well,
                        anyway, I don't like this wet season of the year."
                    "Yes, but we're better off here than they are out in the country,
                        where the roads are muddy," said the lush.
                    "That's a fact. Down in Indiana, where I used to live, we had the
                        black prairie mud. At this time of the year it would take four horses to pull a two-wheeled cart
                        with a man and a sack of flour in it."
                    "I don't doubt it," said Doc.' "Any one
                        who was acquainted with this western country in the early days can tell you some remarkable
                        stories of what we had to contend with in overland travel. Why, right here in Chicago, before
                        they put down the corduroy roads, wagons used to mire in Clark Street, and any one who lived as
                        far out as Evanston or La Grange had to swim half of the way to get to Chicago at this time of
                        the year. On the occasion of my first visit to this town, a man named Simpson and I used to take
                        a great many horseback rides out into the surrounding country. He was trying to sell me some
                        tracts of so-called  farm land, but it was really swamp
                        and raw prairie, and I couldn't see my way clear to buy. Most of it is worth from one
                        hundred to one thousand dollars a front foot now, but that's neither here nor there.
                    "As I said, we used to take many horseback rides together. It was in May,
                        and we were having some very warm weather, following a season of continued rains. The roads had
                        been practically impassable for weeks, but they were drying rapidly, especially on top. You have
                        doubtless seen, gentlemen, a muddy road with this dry crust. At intervals along the roads there
                        were deep rucks, or 'mud-holes,' as they were called. When a mud-hole dries
                        rapidly a cracked and flaky crust forms on top, and the large flakes curl up and warp in the
                        sun. Often enough the crust will be as dry as a bone, while underneath are several feet of soft
                        mud. I don't know that you ever heard the term, gentlemen, but in those days a mud-hole
                        with this deceptive dry crust on top was called a 'loblolly.' Often it would
                        require weeks of warm weather to dry out one of those places.
                    "Well, as I started to tell you, Simpson and I came to one of these low
                        places in the  road. It seemed dry, even dusty, on top,
                        but I had had some experience in prairie country, so I told Simpson to go slow. He had been out
                        from the east but a short time, and thought he knew it all. He started across. Of course, the
                        dry shell broke through as if it were thin ice, and the first thing he knew he and the horse
                        were stuck deep in the softest mire I ever saw. I jumped off my horse and threw him one end of
                        my hitch-rein, and pulled him out. I supposed, of course, that the horse could get out of the
                        mud if relieved of the weight. He couldn't, though. The more he struggled, the deeper
                        he went. I had heard of horses sinking in quicksand, but that was the first and only time I saw
                        a horse sink right down into the mud."
                    "Did he go clear in under?" asked the race-track man.
                    "Yes, sir, he sank completely out of sight, and we had to stand there
                        helpless. We couldn't save him. I understand that later in the summer some of the men
                        dug down, out of curiosity, to see how far he had sunk, and they had to dig about five feet
                        before they came to the saddle."
                    "Doc', that cigar doesn't seem to be burning  very well," said the lush. "Try a
                        fresh one."
                    Only the dentist knew that this tender of the cigar was an act of surrender on the
                        part of the lush, who had boasted that he could tell a story which would silence Doc'
                        for all evening.
                    
                        A FRESH CIGAR.
                    
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER II
                    THE FIRST SYMPTOM OF MATRIMONY
                    The lightning dentist stood in the doorway of the Alfalfa European Hotel and looked
                        out at the dripping street. The granite blocks of the pavement were newly washed, and they shone
                        in surprised cleanliness where the light fell on them.
                    A hansom cab rolled by, the horse steaming and the driver crouched inside a great
                        rubber coat. Only one light could be seen in the big, water-soaked building opposite, and that
                        was in a first-floor office where a late employ was doubled over a ledger.
                    One or two pedestrians sloshed along, bracing their umbrellas against the cold wind.
                        The lightning dentist turned up his coat collar and shivered with sympathy. A stronger gust of
                        wind blew the raindrops against his face and he retreated.
                    He saw Doc' Home, the actor and the lush seated in drooping silence near the
                        steam heater. They had moved their chairs  toward the
                        radiator as if to deceive themselves, but they knew the radiator was the coldest thing in the
                        room. Doc' Horne had been attempting to read an evening paper. Even the paper was
                        moist, for it did not crackle when he folded it and gave it a disgusted fling.
                    "Bad night," observed the dentist, gloomily, rubbing his hands.
                    "Miserable, miserable," said Doc' Horne.
                    "It's cold in this office to-night," said the dentist.
                        "I wish I knew where to go or what to do."
                    "We might go into the bar and see Steve," said the lush, hopefully.
                    This suggestion was received in silence.
                    "Or," continued the lush, "we might go up to my room and
                        send down for something to drink. Come on; it will be more comfortable up there."
                    The invitation was accepted without any enthusiasm. Before the party went upstairs
                        the lush sent the bell-boy for a bottle of whisky and a large-sized reservoir of seltzer.
                    Whenever the lush had visitors he always made these preparations for entertaining
                        them, no matter whether they drank  or not.
                        Doc' Horne was a total abstainer. The actor was a cautious drinker, who, when dragged
                        to the bar, usually compromised on sweet Catawba wine or a small glass of beer. Even the
                        lightning dentist, although he told stories of fabulous expenditures for wine while visiting in
                        Cincinnati, seldom took more than one drink an evening.
                    Nevertheless, the lush put the whisky, the seltzer, the ice and the glasses on the
                        table in his room and confidently invited his friends to "drink hearty." The
                        lightning dentist took his one drink, although he nearly choked in the effort, and the others
                        mildly protested and asked to be excused.
                    
                        "OUR HOST."
                    
                    The lush expressed himself as disappointed at their failure to be "good
                        fellows," and drank two magnificent "high balls" in order to rebuke
                        them. Then he sat on the bed and at intervals thereafter he would point at the bottles on the
                        table and look  inquiringly at his guests, who never
                        failed to shake their heads.
                    The conversation had gone the range of commonplaces, mostly in regard to the weather,
                        and then it turned upon the fact that a European hotel on a wet and chilly night is not the most
                        cheerful place in the world.
                    "Here we are, gentlemen, four of us," said Doc' Horne.
                        "All of us have reached the age at which men should marry perhaps all have passed the
                        age at which it is advisable to choose a helpmate.
                    "That's a fact, Doc'," said the lush, reaching
                        for the seltzer.
                    "Of course, matrimony is a lottery. Perhaps we are better off than if we had
                        joined the Benedicts, but on a night like this it occurs to me that if I were seated before my
                        own grate-fire in my own library, with my own children around me, I would be happier than I am
                        here." Doc' made a reassuring gesture, and continued: "I
                        don't mean to reflect on the hospitality of our friend here or intimate that I am not
                        satisfied with the present company, but "
                    "Certainly, we understand," said the actor.
                    
                    "If we were to own up, gentlemen, I suppose every man-jack of us came very
                        near being married at some time or other.
                    The lush softly prepared another "high-ball."
                    "Doctor, I consider it quite remarkable that you never married,"
                        said the actor.
                    "Maybe he couldn't find a woman good enough for him,"
                        suggested the dentist.
                    "I have met thousands who were too good for any man who ever
                        lived," replied Doc', with considerable warmth. "The problem in
                        matrimony is not to find a good woman. The problem is to find a woman who will be sufficiently
                        patient and charitable to bear with the faults which are common to the sex represented here this
                        evening.''
                    "The ladies," said the lush, arising from the bed and holding out
                        the glass as if to offer a toast.
                    "Sit down!" commanded the dentist.
                    "It is largely a question of compatibility," continued
                        Doc'. "Harmless compound No. Iharmless compound No. 2. You put them together
                        and the result is an explosive. Poison No. 1 added to poison No. 2 gives a harmless neutral. Two
                        beautiful colors  put them together and you have
                        discord. Matrimony is often a plunge in the dark. The man never knows whether he will land on a
                        bed of roses or in a nest of thorns. That is, he doesn't know unless he has a knowledge
                        of women based on the study of many marriages and the resulting experiences. Now I know just
                        what kind of a wife I ought to have, but it has required many years of study for me to find it
                        out. I know you gentlemen fairly well. I know the kind of wife that each of you ought to
                        "
                    "Do you, for a fact, Doc'?" asked the dentist, eagerly.
                    "What kind 'v wife I ought to have, Doc'?" asked
                        the lush.
                    "Nonejust at present," replied Doc', closing his lips
                        tightly.
                    "Thanks," and he reached for the bottle.
                    "Doc', you said a while ago that probably every one of us had come
                        very near being married at some time or other, put in the dentist. "Now, as a matter of
                        fact, how near did you ever come to it?"
                    "I was married once," said Doc', quietly.
                    "Wha-a-at!"
                    "I was and I was not. I am a single man in the United States. In Brazil, at
                        this  minute, I would be a married man, provided Rita
                        is still living."
                    "What's her nameRita?"
                    "Yes, I haven't seen her in thirty years. That's rather a
                        long time for a man to remain away from his wife, eh?"
                    He winked at the dentist and shook with inward laughter. They waited.
                    "The circumstances were rather peculiar," began Doc',
                        gazing hard at the floor. "It was in, let's seeyes, 1866. I was in New York
                        that spring to transact some business, and while there I became acquainted with a Brazilian
                        named Miguel Bartos, a coffee planter. He had been visiting in New York and I had met him at a
                        club there. He was about to return to Brazil on a sailing vessel that he owned, and he invited
                        me to go as far as Savannah with him. They were to touch at Savannah, I remember, to get the
                        mail and some small supplies. I had a little time at my disposal, so I accepted the invitation.
                        I didn't know until after we sailed that Seor Bartos "
                    "I knew him well," said the lush.
                    "I didn't know that he had a daughter," continued
                        Doc', ignoring the interruption. "She was a perfect specimen of the Spanish
                             type of beautyolive complexion, dark hair and the
                        most wonderful eyes I ever saw. Seor Bartos and the daughter, his business partner, named
                        Pramada, and I, were the only passengers on board. The captain was a Spaniard, the first mate an
                        American who had lived in the tropics for years, and the crew was made up entirely of
                        Brazilians. Well, we had lovely weather, and, very naturally, I was thrown into the society of
                        the seorita much of the time. I showed her many attentions, but no more than I thought were due
                        from any American gentleman under the circumstances. I didn't realize until it was too
                        late that she was completely infatuated with me.
                    "How could she help herself?" asked the lush.
                    "Now, sir!" said Doc', turning on the lush, "will
                        you allow me to continue?"
                    "Sure thing," replied the lush, with a faltering salute.
                    "If I had remembered Spanish customs, particularly as they are localized in
                        Brazil, I wouldn't have allowed myself to become entangled. She was a young girl, and I
                        was considerably her senior and did not realize the significance of what I did. One  evening, in the presence of her father, I kissed her.
                        You must remember that she was quite young. I regarded her as a mere child. Even at that I would
                        not have presumed to take such a liberty had she not suggested it in a bantering spirit. Her
                        father was present, and I saw no harm in it so long as he did not object. You may be able to
                        appreciate my surprise and consternation, gentlemen, when Seor Bartos called me into the cabin
                        next day and informed me in all seriousness that according to Brazilian custom, when an
                        unmarried man kisses a woman of eligible age the act is equivalent to a betrothal and may be
                        regarded as a marriage under the common law. He said that his daughter loved me, and that he was
                        willing to give a handsome dowry, but he would insist that I proceed to Brazil with them and
                        have an additional ceremony performed in the cathedral. When I showed my surprise and told him I
                        had no intention of marrying his daughter he drew a dagger and would have stabbed me if Seor
                        Pramada had not restrained him. I was told that I would be killed if I failed to carry out the
                        marriage contract. Well, there I was. I pretended to consent,  but I was determined to escape when the vessel touched at Savannah. I knew
                        every man on board had been cautioned to watch me and prevent my escape. I had to proceed with
                        secrecy, but I managed to get the first mate on my side. He promised to help me.
                    "Well, when we anchored off Savannah the captain and Senor Bartos went
                        ashore and got my mail, but I was given to understand that I must not leave the vessel. One of
                        the letters that I received made it necessary that I should be in Pittsburg in a few days, and I
                        was more than ever determined to get away. Late that night the mate and I slipped on deck and
                        dropped one of the boats into the water. Just as we jumped into the boat Senor Bartos came on
                        deck and began to fire at us. We pulled away, and he put a knife into his mouth and jumped over
                        board to follow us. Of course we could have escaped him, but I was afraid he would drown, so we
                        put back and I hauled him out of the water. He was nearly exhausted, but still full of deviltry,
                        for he made a vicious lunge at me with the knife, but I grabbed his arm and took the weapon away
                        from him and then I gave him a good hard talking to. I said: 'Senor Bartos, I claim  to be a man of honor, and I would not violate any
                        promise, however lightly made, but you cannot come up into this part of the world and enforce
                        your South American customs. I respect your daughter as a charming and innocent girl, but I do
                        not propose to marry her under compulsion. I am going ashore here. You may go back to the
                        vessel.' Well, the mate went ashore with me. If they had ever got hold of him they
                        would have murdered him for helping me to escape. I never heard anything more of them after
                        that."
                    "It's a good thing that Brazilian law doesn't hold in this
                        country," said the dentist.
                    "Our host is dead to the world," observed the actor. They turned
                        and saw that the lush had dropped over on the pillows and fallen asleep.
                    "Let him rest," said Doc' "I expect we had better
                        go out. Just turn down the gas. He'll sleep all right as he lies."
                    So they went out, leaving their host under the peaceful influence.
                    As Doc' moved along the hallway toward his room the lightning dentist
                        followed him.
                    
                    "Can I see you alone for a little while?" he asked.
                    "Certainly, my dear sir" replied Doc', with an acquiescent
                        wave of the hand. "Come right into my room."
                    Doc' fumbled in the darkness until he found a match, and then he lighted the
                        gas. The dentist slowly settled into a chair and held his hat in front of him.
                    "Doc', thisthis mustn't go any farther than you,"
                        he said, with some embarrassment.
                    
                        THE LIGHTNING DENTIST.
                    
                    "I never betrayed a confidence in my life."
                    "It's something I wouldn't think of mentioning to any one
                        else around the hotel."
                    "Whatever it may be, it will be safe in my hands."
                    "I know that. I'll tell you what has induced me to speak. A little
                        while ago you were speaking of matrimony and you compared it to a plunge in the dark. You  said that a man never knew where he was going to
                        land."
                    "I qualified that statement."
                    "I know you did, but that and some more things you said put me to thinking.
                        This is what I wanted to tell you, and you mustn't whisper a word of it to any one
                        else. I'd like to get married."
                    Doc' looked at him with grave interest, and rubbed his nose.
                    "I don't blame you," he said. "You heard my views
                        this evening."
                    "Yes, but some of the things you said later on kind o' scared me.
                        I'd hate to make any mistake and get tied up to the wrong girl."
                    "There is no reason why you should make any mistake if you are properly
                        advised. You are a good-looking man, still young, well-dressed, established in a profession,
                        fair prospects, I dare say, and"
                    "I've got more money put away than anybody in this hotel knows
                        anything about," said the dentist, his voice trembling with gratification at
                        Doc's studied eulogy. "I sold the lots the other day that I've been
                        holding. I cleared up a thousand. Next year I expect to have an interest in the  Neapolitan Dental Parlors, where I'm working
                        now. It's a sure money-maker. Doc' we've got ten men at work now, and
                        I have enough extracting alone to keep me busy most of the time. We're doubling our
                        advertising contracts, and I feel so sure of staying there and making a good thing out of it
                        that I want to settle down and have a nice little home of my own. A man can't stand
                        this hotel life forever."
                    "True, true. I don't want to be inquisitive, but is there any one
                        in particular that"
                    "No, because I've simply lived between office and hotel. But
                        I'm going to look around. I'm going to find a nice girland I tell you what I
                        want you to do for me, Doc'. Before I make any definite move or commit
                        myselfunderstand?I want you to meet the girl and give me your candid opinion. I don't
                        want to make any mistake. I heard you say that you could pick out the right kind of a wife for
                        any one of your friends, and I want you to promise that you'llwell, not exactly pick
                        out one for me, but help me to select one. I don't know whether you just understand or
                        not.''
                    
                    "I think I do. I am at your service at any time."
                    So this compact was made: that after the dentist had "looked
                        around" and selected a young woman, Doc' should inspect her and give an expert
                        opinion based on his vast experience with the sex.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER III
                    THE ALFALFA EUROPEAN HOTEL
                    Chicago is a city made up of country people. It is a metropolis having a few saving
                        virtues of a village. It is spread over so many square miles of prairie and has so many farms
                        alternating with scanty suburbs that no one has been able to draw the line between urban and
                        suburban, or the line between suburban and rural. When one is in State Street he finds proof
                        that Chicago is urban, suburban and rural.
                    In 1880 the population was 500,000 and a few over. In 1900 it is to be 2,000,000,
                        census or no census. Ask any real estate man. Was not a club organized in 1896 to concede the
                        2,000,000 mark?
                    Whence came the 1,500,000 increase? From Germany, Italy, Sweden, Norway, Ireland,
                        Poland, Russia, China, Austria, Greece, and any other country you choose to name. Also from all
                        those towns set in close columns in the United States Postal Guide.
                    
                    Not long ago, before the Spanish-American war was fought and while women still wore
                        puff sleeves, there stood in a street toward the smoky center of town a hotel, not of the first
                        class. The building was thin, fend might have appeared tall but for the fact that it was
                        overtopped by two mountainous structures, shutting out the eastern sky. The street front was
                        mostly buffet, but there was a hallway leading back to a dim apartment, called the office, and
                        here there were chairs and a counter, and behind the counter a box of pigeon-holes for keys and
                        letters. From the office a stairway and an elevator shaft led to the upper region of narrow
                        hallways and cramped bedchambers.
                    It was the Alfalfa European Hotel. Alfalfa, because the name had a pleasing sound;
                        European, because no meals were served in the house.
                    Of the men who lived at the Alfalfa Hotel, either as transient guests or on
                        arrangement for a weekly rate, the one worth knowing was Calvin Home, called Doc' Home
                        by his familiars. His age cannot be given. He never told it. He was bald on the top of his head.
                        His face had the fullness of youth, but it was wrinkled. The chin beard  was white. When it is said, further, that he wore clothes such as
                        might be worn by any old gentleman who had ceased to be fastidious on the point of personal
                        adornment, the reader knows as much as any one would know in taking a first glance at
                        Doc' Home as he sat in the office of the Alfalfa European Hotel with his satellites
                        grouped about him. His daily employment at the time of the beginning of this story called him to
                        the Federal offices, where he checked pension lists or classified vouchers or performed some
                        other kind of labor quite unsuited to him. Doc' overshadowed his occupation, and it is
                        doubtful if there will be another reference to it anywhere in this book.
                    In the succeeding pages, when it is related that Doc' and his companions
                        moved in and about the hotel, it is not to be concluded that they had the hotel to themselves.
                        Many strangers came to the desk and claimed their keys and rode upward in the tremulous
                        elevator. Men whose names do not appear and whose comments will be suppressed stood at a
                        respectful distance and heard what Doc' had to say of love and life. Mr. Ike Francis,
                        proprietor, is somewhere in  the office, smoking a
                        pipe, and other persons are in the background, reading newspapers. These are mere details of the
                        setting and will not be pointed out again.
                    
                        THE ALFALFA QUINTETTE.
                    
                    To recur to the original proposition, that Chicago is a city made up of country
                        people: one evening Doc' sat in the office and told a chapter to an actor from a farm
                        in Ohio, a drinking man from a village in New York, a lightning dentist from an interior county
                        of Indiana, and a race-track man from the bluegrass part of Kentucky.
                    They were talking of women, and the topic lasted well at the Alfalfa Hotel, as
                        elsewhere. The actor had said that once upon a time he went up a ladder and into a burning house
                        to save a young woman. That reminded Doc' Home of Crosbyville.
                    "Let's seeI spent two or three years in Crosbyville, off and
                        on," he began, "and  this must have
                        happened in the fall of'51 or the spring of'52. I remember that I left
                        Crosbyville just about the time of the presidential campaign, and that waswell, it must have
                        been about June, '52. No matter; the date doesn't make any difference.
                    "In order that you may understand this story better, I'll have to
                        go back a little. The first time I ever visited in Crosbyville I was invited out to a
                        shooting-match. We didn't shoot at glass balls or live pigeons in those days. We
                        usually put a white square of paper up against a tree and blazed away at it with rifles, and,
                        although our firearms were of defective bore, I can assure you that some of the best shooting I
                        ever saw was at these old-time matches out in the woods. However, that has nothing to do with
                        the story.
                    "One of my friends invited me to go to the shooting-match, and after I got
                        out there I was asked to enter the contest. Well, I went in and I happened to get a rifle that
                        sighted just right for me, and I won. A man who had been introduced to me as Capt. Jaynes made
                        the next highest score. It seemed to me that the other contestants took  their defeat good-naturedly, but on the way home my friend told me to
                        look out for this Capt. Jaynes. He was a hot-headed Kentuckian, and it seems that this was the
                        first time he had been defeated in years, and it worried him a good deal. My friend told me that
                        he had taken a dislike to me and would probably try to pick a quarrel at the first opportunity.
                    "Well, that same afternoon I invited all the men who had been at the
                        shooting-match to come over to the tavern. It was customary for the winner of the match to stand
                        treat to the others. Capt. Jaynes came in rather late, while we were all sitting round and
                        talking. I arose and asked him to join the party. He bowed very coldly and said that he was not
                        in the habit of drinking with strangers. Now, I was rather touchy in my younger days. I said:
                        'Very well, captain; I withdraw the invitation. I made the mistake of supposing that
                        you would feel at home in a company of gentlemen.' I knew what to expect when I said
                        that. He started to draw a knife, bill before he could lift it I had hold of him. They pulled us
                        apart and tried to quiet him, but he went away raving mad. They all said he would  kill me the first time we met, but he must have
                        cooled down when he had time to think it over. I saw him often after thatpassed him on the
                        street. He never made a move, but I knew that he hated me and would be glad of a chance to do me
                        an injury.
                    "The captain's house was right on the bank of the Green River, and
                        stood near his mill. It was an old-fashioned two-story house, very broad and well built, and
                        thickly surrounded by trees. It was considered the best house in Crosbyville. The captain was
                        the wealthiest and one of the most prominent citizens of the town. He was a widower and had two
                        childrena son of fourteen or so, and a daughter named Elizabeth. She Was a very beautiful
                        girlvery charming. I had met her several times, but, of course, I had never become well
                        acquainted with her on account of my standing feud with her father.
                    "Well, to make a long story short, the whole town was aroused by an alarm of
                        fire one night, and when we turned out the Jaynes' mill was one mass of flames. It was
                        an old-style structure, with a framework of heavy logs, and it made a fearful blaze. The wind
                        was blowing the flames toward the  house. Every one
                        saw that it was no use to try and save the mill, so we turned in to defend the housegot up on
                        the roof and passed buckets and put out wet blankets to catch the sparks, but all in vain,
                        gentlemen, all in vain. The men were driven off the roof, and the water dried as fast as it was
                        thrown on. All at once one whole side of the house seemed to spring into a flame. There was a
                        general shout, and everybody retreated to a safe distance. The members of the family and the
                        neighbors had been removing the household goods. Just as the house caught fire, and all the men
                        were getting out of it as fast as they could, I heard Elizabeth Jaynes cry out: 'The
                        canary!' Then she ran back into the house, with every one calling to her to stop. I
                        didn't hesitate a moment, I assure you. She went through that terrific heat and dense
                        smoke right up the stairway, and I followed. I caught her by the arm at the top of the stairs
                        and told her to come back. She was hysterical and excitedsaid she wouldn't leave until
                        she got the bird. In spite of all I could do she pulled away from me and ran to the front
                        roomher bedroom, I believe and felt her way to where the bird-cage was  Hanging. Gentlemen, it was never any hotter in any bake-oven than it
                        was in that room. As soon as she got the bird-cage I dragged her back through the hall. The
                        smoke was not so thick now because the fire had got a free draught through the house and was
                        making a fearful roar and spreading rapidly. When we reached the stairway the whole lower end of
                        it was ablaze. I dragged the girl away to the front window, but by that time the whole veranda
                        was on fire. The crowd outside saw us, and shouted somethingI couldn't tell what. I saw
                        there was no escape over that burning veranda. When the people shouted, the girl fainted dead
                        away. I threw her across my shoulder and started for the rear of the house, because I knew that
                        was my only salvation. The whole stairway was ablaze by that time, and flames were creeping up
                        through the floor. I closed my lips tightly and in about four leaps I reached a back window.
                        Outside there was a big tree, almost brushing the window. I kicked out the window sash and
                        simply jumped into the tree. It was the only thing to be done. Luckily, I got my arm over a
                        limb, which sagged with us and dropped us to the 
                        ground. I scrambled to my feet and ran, with the girl still hanging absolutely limp and helpless
                        over my shoulder. I went straight for the river with the intention of jumping in. The heat was
                        something awful. It had driven away the men who had been filling their buckets at the river.
                    
                        TELLING ABOUT IT.
                    
                    Just as I staggered down the river bank I saw a skiff. Some one had probably rowed
                        across the river to the fire, for the boat was not fastened. I dropped the girl into the boat
                        and gave it a strong push out into the current, and in a few seconds we were floating down
                        stream and were safe."
                    She had the canary, I suppose?" said the lightning dentist.
                    "Oh, yes. She was in a dead faint, but she hadn't let go of the
                        cage. As soon as I recovered my breath and wet my clothes in two or three places where they were
                        on fire,
                    
                    I splashed water in the girl's face and she recovered consciousness, but was
                        still hysterical and did not seem to realize fully what had happened.
                    "We could look up the river and see the burning house. It made a huge blaze
                        and threw a bright glare across the river. I remember the peculiar effect of this glare on the
                        windows of the houses across the river. It caused them to glow as if the houses were filed with
                        live flames. The girl was so frightened that she thought all the houses were afire.
                    "When I got ready to row back I discovered that I hadn't any oars.
                        The current was swift and we were drifting rapidly, so I pulled out a seat-board and used it as
                        a rudder, and in a few minutes I made a landing near a house occupied by a Mr. Wesley. Miss
                        Jaynes was so weak and nervous that she could hardly walk, but I assisted her to this house and
                        aroused the family.
                    "The woman of the house was very kind. She cared for the young lady for
                        about two hours and had one of the boys drive us back to Crosbyville. Now, in the general
                        excitement we had forgotten that the people in Crosbyville had every reason to believe that  we had perished in the flames. You couldn't
                        blame them for thinking so. The window from which I had leaped was well hidden by trees, and
                        there was no one at the river bank when we leaped into the boat. We learned afterward that the
                        men had pulled down the burning veranda and had planted a ladder at the front window where we
                        had been seen, but the blaze was so fierce that they had been driven back.
                    "As I say, every one supposed that we were lost; so you can imagine what
                        happened when we drove up in front of the ruins about seven o'clock in the morning.
                        They were already searching for our bodies. Yes, sir; they thought we were ghosts. As soon as I
                        explained to them how we got away you never heard such cheering in your life. They lifted Miss
                        Jaynes out of the wagon and took her over to a neighboring house, to which the captain had been
                        taken. The man was almost wild with grief. Those who went over to the house say it was one of
                        the most affecting meetings that could be imagined. First he wept like a baby and then he jumped
                        up and laughed like a boy and said he didn't care for the loss of his buildings so long
                        as his daughter was safe.
                    
                    I suppose his daughter must have given him a very favorable account of my efforts in
                        her behalf, for presently he came out of the house and walked up to where I was standing and
                        said: 'Mr. Horne, you have done me the greatest service that one man can do another.
                        All that I have is at your command now and forever. I once did you an injustice. You have repaid
                        me. Will you take the hand of a man who honestly admits himself beaten and humiliated?'
                        I said to him: 'Captain, you are a brave and gallant man, but you were mistaken for
                        once. Let us say no more about the misunderstandings of the past.' We shook hands, and
                        from that day forward we were friends. He was a man of passions and prejudices, but if he came
                        to know you and like you he was the truest friend a man ever had."
                    "There's only one thing needed to make that a good story,"
                        suggested the dentist. "You ought to say that you married the captain's
                        daughter."
                    "I am not going to sacrifice truth in order to make a fancy
                        romance," replied Doc'.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IV
                    THE GALLANTRY OF THE HORNES
                    Taking your first glance at the Alfalfa colony you would not have supposed that these
                        men, taken collectively or individually, could have lured a resisting woman from the other side
                        of the street. The men were not youthful, and only one of them strove to be a thing of beauty.
                    The lightning dentist sought color effects. When he came to the street doorway in
                        light checked trousers, saffron-colored vest and blue coat, his knotted four-in-hand cravat
                        darting into the crack of his shirt-bosom at a point some two inches below the collar, and his
                        hands clammy from perfumed toilet soap, he seemed to feel that he was doing more than his share
                        to make this world a pleasant place of abode.
                    The actor had a sort of reminiscent splendor which commanded respect, if not
                        admiration. His attire and his bearing suggested the pathos of a summer pavilion with snow on
                        the roof. His garments fitted him, but  here and there
                        a pin had to serve for a button, and sometimes the cuffs were frayed and cracked. The actor
                        seemed to have the hopeful impression that he could atone for other shortcomings in his
                        appearance by putting an extra polish on his shoes and allowing part of a slightly soiled
                        handkerchief to protrude from his upper coat pocket.
                    The drinking man, often mentioned as the lush, wore the plain garb of a man who
                        selects the material and gives no directions as to the cut. The race-track man favored the
                        styles of his boyhood days. H is shoes were rather boxtoed, and his cravat was a black string
                        pulled into a bow.
                    
                        THE PROPRIETOR.
                    
                    Were these men, lolling in the shiny armchairs, born to smile at women and lead them
                        captive? Doubt it if you will, but it is a fact that each of them (Doc', the lush, the
                        dentist, the actor and the racetrack  man) had been a
                        principal in a love affair. Each had confessed.
                    Women of quality, every one of them. No names were given, but "she"
                        invariably "belonged to one of the best families in town," and she came out of
                        the story blame-less, for her protector sat near. Doc' Home permitted no man to speak
                        in disparagement of the absent sex.
                    His nodding plume you could not see. The weak gaslight struck no glitter from his
                        breastplate. The extended hand grasped no lance, of the kind that might get in the way and trip
                        up the race-track man or the actor. Yet the plume and the cuirass and the lance were there.
                        Chivalry lived again.
                    Time and again Doc' routed the dull cynicism which usually nourishes in a
                        hotel lobby. One evening the actor, believing that he had discerned a great truth, observed that
                        an outsider ought never to interfere in a quarrel between husband and wife.
                    "That's right," said the dentist. "You know the
                        old story of the fellow who tried to stop a man from beating his wife. When he tried to part
                        them, both turned in and gave him a terrible licking."
                    
                    "Gentlemen, I'm sorry that I cannot fully agree with you,"
                        said Doc' Horne, after a satisfying pull at his cigar. "I admit that it is
                        seldom advisable to take any part in family quarrels, but when a woman is in danger of bodily
                        harm it is the duty of any gentleman to protect her, even at the risk of his life. It may be
                        that I regard these things differently, but I was educated in the old school, and my father
                        always impressed upon me the fact that gallantry was an instinct among the Homes. The other day
                        I offered my seat to a young lady. She seemed rather surprised, and said, 'Really, sir,
                        I don't like to take the seat; you are an old man!' I said to her,
                        'My dear madam, I am always young in the presence of the fair sex.' "
                    "You want to be careful, Doc'," suggested the dentist.
                    "And then you got off at the next corner?" asked the lush.
                    "No, sir, I did not. I want to tell you younger men another thing. There is
                        too much 'false gallantry these days. Any one of you would jump up to give your seat to
                        a stylish and beautiful young lady, but you'd let a poor, tired washerwoman ride from
                             here to Englewood hanging on to one of those
                        straps. My father always taught me to respect the sex without regard to social conditions. Why,
                        the worst fight I ever had in my life was on account of a lumberman's wife. It was a
                        year or so before the war, when some of the first big lumber camps were being established in
                        northern Michigan. I went up to a little town called Pagowic to look over the country and visit
                        a friend of mine, Col. Clayton Walters, who had charge of a big timber district for some New
                        York capitalists. He had built a pleasant cabin on the main street of the village, or the camp,
                        rather, and I put up with him. Right across the street from our place was a little cabin
                        occupied by a French-Canadian lumberman known as 'Big Antone.' He was
                        considerably over six feet tall, raw-boned and 'rangy,' as they say, and I
                        learned the first day I landed there that he was the bully of the camp. He could cut down more
                        timber than any other man on the job, and there were all kinds of stories as to his great
                        strength. He had a wife, a young and rather pretty woman, and as he was full of bad whisky most
                        of the time he led her a dog's life. I used to hear him  abusing her and scolding her, and it made me indignant. I said to Col.
                        Walters one day: 'Colonel, why don't you compel Antone to stop abusing his
                        wife?' He said to me: 'Horne, there isn't a man in the camp dares to
                        cross that fellow. He's too dangerous.' 'Well,'I says,
                        'if he goes too far, I'll cross him.'
                    "As luck would have it, the very next morning I heard a scream across the
                        way, and when I went to the door I saw Antone's wife run out of the house. He followed
                        her and struck her across the head with the flat of his hand. Well, sir, all the Home blood that
                        was in me boiled at the sight. I jumped up and said: 'That settles it!' The
                        colonel knew what I meant, and he knew he couldn't stop me, but he followed after and
                        told me to take a pistol. I told him I didn't need any. As I walked across the street I
                        pulled out my handkerchief and wrapped it as tightly as I could around my right hand, so as to
                        protect the knuckles. I knew that big Antone was probably the best rough-and-tumble fighter in
                        Michigan, but I was confident that I had a few tricks that he had never heard of.
                    "I went right up to the door and called to him. He came out and his wife
                        followed.  I said: 'Antone, you must stop
                        striking this woman. If you don't, I'll give you the best licking you ever had
                        in your life.' Well, sir, for a minute he was so surprised that he couldn't
                        speak, and then he began to curse me in all the choice French-Canadian phrases at his command.
                        Then he up and slapped me. It was only a slap, but it nearly took my head off. He led at me
                        again, but I dodged and backed away. I knew I didn't dare to clinch with him. He seemed
                        to think I was afraid of him and began to laugh. He dropped his hands and I walked toward him as
                        if to speak to him again. When I got within reach I swung with all my might and caught him right
                        on the point of the jaw. I knew about the knock-out blow long before it was commonly used by
                        pugilists, and I had figured that my chance to whip him was to get him off his guard and then
                        catch him on the jaw.
                    "He staggered backward, and before he could recover himself I hit him again,
                        and he tumbled back and lay as quiet as a mouse. His wife screamed and ran over to pick him up,
                        and about the same time the colonel arrived with a pistol in his hand. He expected to find me
                        pounded to a pulp.
                    
                    "In a few moments 'Big Antone' sat up and looked around
                        him, just like a man awakening from a sleep. I went up to him 
                            AN EVENING SESSION.
                         and said: 'You remember what I told you. Don't strike this woman
                        again.' Then I went away with the colonel. 'Big Antone'  was so humiliated at being whipped by a man of my
                        size that he left camp that same day and went up the river to work. But the colonel told me
                        afterward that it was the best thing that ever happened to him. He didn't go around
                        looking for fights after that, and he was never known to strike his wife again. Of course that
                        was an exceptional case, and if I hadn't known the trick of the knock-out blow it might
                        have been serious for me. But, serious or not, I believe I would have interfered after I saw him
                        strike the woman. It isn't in the nature of a Home to sit by and see such things
                        done."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER V
                    THE DENTIST SEES ONE
                    The lightning dentist had extracted twenty-three teeth that morning. Number
                        twenty-four had not appeared. He leaned against the chair and thought of the woman he was to
                        marry. It seemed that he could see her. She was neither blonde nor brunette, not tall nor short,
                        vague and without specifications, but she was very beautiful.
                    The dentist glanced at the clock on the mantel. The time was 12:22. "I will
                        hurry out and get some lunch,' he said.
                    With that he pulled off his white jacket and hung it on a hook in the closet, jumped
                        into his street coat and bolted through the doorway, shouting:
                    "Down! Hey, there! Going down!"
                    The swift elevator-car came to a bumping pause in its downward flight. He dived
                        through the open door and sprawled on other men whose faces seemed pale in the dim light of the
                        shaft. A pull at the lever,  a confusing glimpse of
                        parallel floors and rows of glazed windows, all flying upward, and the car was on the ground
                        floor.
                    The dentist did not see the squirming multitude in the street nor hear the clangor of
                        the car bells. He was trying to decide whether or not a piano would be a necessity at the
                        beginning.
                    As he entered the place wherein food is for sale on quick delivery, he did not
                        observe that he was riding in a jam of people and propelling himself by means of his elbows.
                    The place was crowded. It was a brilliantly lighted tunnel.
                    Long counters extended from front to rear. On one side of each counter was a row of
                        stools, with a man on every stool. The men were so close one to another that their arms
                        threatened to interlock as they beckoned and gesticulated or swung them-selves in desperate
                        feeding. Behind these men stood other men, restless, watchful, waiting their chance to pounce
                        upon stools as soon as any wild men at the counter wrenched themselves out of the struggling
                        line.
                    A babel of voices was constantly mingled with the shuffling of feet, the crash of  colliding dishes, and the loud jingle of cutlery.
                    If a Niagara of cups and saucers and knives and forks had been falling into a stone
                        quarry the noise would have been the same.
                    Behind each long counter were waiters in white. They hopped and cavorted, lunged back
                        and forth, uttered strange cries into the air, and propelled dishes and feeding implements along
                        the smooth counter after the manner of shuffleboard players.
                    The dentist pushed down the line.
                    He saw a man wearily lift himself away from a crescent of pie-crust.
                    Aha! He had captured the stool away from two other men. They moved on, looking at the
                        food in front of each feeder, to see if he would soon arise.
                    "Where's my tea?" demanded the man at the immediate right
                        of the dentist.
                    "Cream toast!" shrieked the colored man, who was in an ecstasy of
                        employment.
                    "Tea! tea!"
                    "Yes, seh."
                    "Ham sandwich and" began the dentist.
                    "Take away yo' sliced tomatoes!" shouted some one in his
                        ear.
                    
                    "Sliced tomatoes," echoed a voice farther away.
                    "Cup o' tea!" bawled the man at the right.
                    "Huckleberry pie!" exclaimed some one at the left.
                    
                        HE ADMIRED ALL BLONDES.
                    
                    "Ham sandwich and" Crash! A knife and fork fell in front of the
                        dentist.
                    A glass of water floating a large piece of ice reeled sloppily on the spattered
                        counter and stopped in front of him.
                    "Ham sandwich and"
                    "How 'bout co'n cakes?" bellowed the colored man,
                        standing on tiptoe and threatening some one with a fork.
                    "Take 'em away!"
                    "Hurry up that tea!"
                    "'Nuther piece o' butter!"
                    "What kind o' pie?"
                    
                    "Where's my check?"
                    "Ham sandwich and"
                    Crash boom bangthumpexplosion stampedepanic!
                    "Ham sandwich!" screeched the waiter, bobbing tip from nowhere and
                        dropping a plate near the dentist.
                    "'N' a cup o' coffee."
                    "How about that tea?"
                    "Is that pie comin'?"
                    "Yes, seh." One answer for all three.
                    The waiter dove under the counter. He ran and counter-ran.
                    He juggled spoons and saucers. He chuckled with delight when another waiter,
                        sprinting along the narrow passageway, bumped into him.
                    He had two cups in the left hand and one cup in the right hand as he danced around a
                        cluster of nickel-plated boilers and pulled at sundry faucets.
                    The delirium grew on him. He passed out pasteboard checks with one hand and cut a pie
                        with the other.
                    The dentist shared in the exultation. He clutched the ham sandwich and tore away the
                        greater part of it at the first bite.
                    His neighbor ordered a second piece of 
                        huckleberry pie. The other neighbor gulped the tea and, in a choking voice, called for his
                        check.
                    As the tea neighbor slid away another man bolted in and collided with the dentist,
                        who came very near spilling his coffee.
                    "Pork 'n' beans, glassmilk," said the new comer,
                        rapping on the counter.
                    The dentist shuddered slightly and then returned to his coffee.
                    "In a hurry, too,'' said the new-comer.
                    "What kind of sweet cakes"
                    "Is that blackberry pie under there?"
                    "Where's the mustard?"
                    "I want another"
                    "Hurry up with that"
                    "It's a kind of a cream cake with jelly on"
                    "Take away your wheats!" (Loudly.)
                    "I've got you!" (More
                        loudly.)
                    "Glass o' water."
                    "Rolls and milk."
                    "Can you give me"
                    Biff bang plattersspoonsglasses sugar-bowlssalt-cellars!
                    The dentist heard nothing. He was furnishing the front room.
                    He joined the long, jostling line that 
                        moved in irregular order past the cashier's desk. As he handed out the buttery bit of
                        pasteboard and laid a silver dollar on top of it, he became aware that there was a new cashier
                        behind the marble. She made change hesitatinglybut such a vision! The uplift of golden hair, the
                        chaste pallor of her complexion, the whiteness of her teeth, the clinging fit of the cloth
                        gownall these he saw without enumerating them.
                    She was a blonde. He admired all blondes.
                    It occurred to him that she would do. All that afternoon he extracted teeth, but his
                        heart was not in the work.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VI
                    A PEST APPEARS AT THE ALFALFA
                    The dentist burned to tell Doc' of his discovery. As for the campaign of
                        conquest, it unfolded itself as an easy pathway before him. He would be introduced by the
                        manager of the lunch-room; he would talk to her three times before asking permission to call; he
                        would call twice before suggesting the theater; his watchword must be
                        "Gentility."
                    Doc' was not at the usual restaurant, but the dentist found him later on. He
                        and the race-track man were in the office of the hotel. The race-track man was finding fault
                        with the manner in which Mr. Ike Francis managed the Alfalfa. The dentist sat with them and
                        waited for an opportunity to take Doc' away.
                    "I never had anything to do with a hotel in my life," said the
                        race-track man, "but I could take hold of this place and improve it; I can promise you
                        that."
                    
                    "No doubt you could," said Doc'. "At the same
                        time I am inclined to take a charitable view of the situation here. Mr. Francis has a great deal
                        to contend with. I can sympathize with him because I kept a hotel for two weeks oncenot from
                        choice, but from necessity. That was enough for me, gentlemen. I am afraid that I am too
                        independent and proud-spirited to succeed as a host. If I don't like a man I
                        can't attempt to be friendly with him even to further my financial interests."
                    "Where did you keep a hotel, Doc'?" asked the dentist.
                    "Didn't I ever tell you about it? It was when I was in Leadville
                        during the first boom. Three of us had pooled our interests and were buying mines. A man named
                        Jackson had a mine that we were anxious to get. We made him an offer, and he said he'd
                        sell if we'd buy his hotel too. He wanted to raise all the money he could to start a
                        concert hall. We didn't want the hotel, but we knew we could sell it again, because it
                        was making money, so we closed the deal. At the request of my partners I took charge of the
                        hotel and ran it until we could find a customer. I had no difficulty in  handling the work, but I didn't like it. I didn't
                        like to be annoyed by petty details. If I am going to manage anything I want to have
                        subordinates who will take the details off my hands. However, I reorganized the working force
                        and in two weeks' time I made that the best hotel in Leadville. We had mostly miners
                        and prospectors at the hotel, and although they were good fellows and didn't mean any
                        harm, they were too boisterous at times. They used to fire their revolvers just to frighten the
                        women who worked in the dining-room. Why, one night there must have been twenty shooting at the
                        same time. I requested them to stop it, but they didn't seem to pay any attention, so
                        one evening, just as they all tramped in to supper, I followed them in and sat at the head of
                        the long table, next to the door. I pulled my forty-two out of the belt and laid it on the
                        table. Then I said: 'Boys, I don't believe we'd better have any more
                        shooting in the dining-room. It annoys the women and makes too much smoke. Let's do our
                        shooting on the outside.' That's all I said, but I guess they knew what it
                        meant. There wasn't any more shooting in the dining-room."
                    
                    "So you made good with the gun-play, did you?"
                    The three were startled and turned to look at the speaker. They saw a freckled young
                        man with large ears, nose somewhat awry, hat set carelessly on a crop of rusty hair. His
                        garments were a tight fit, and bore a uniform pattern of up-and-down stripes. This freckled
                        person laid his hand on Doc's shoulder (which no member of the chosen colony had ever
                        dared to do), and said: "I'll bet you've been a purty good scrapper
                        in your time."
                    Doc' looked up at him, literally speaking, and down at him, figuratively
                        speaking, and in that godlike frown of rebuke the freckled boy discerned a friendly invitation
                        to go ahead and say something more.
                    "I've been mixed up once or twice myself," he said.
                    Without further introduction the freckled boy reached for a chair, seated himself and
                        began a tale of dolor.
                    "Do you know Danny OswaldSt. Louis boy?"
                    The three shook their heads solemnly.
                    "Well, he's all right. Say, you meet that boy and anything
                        he's got is your'n, understand? 
                        Many's the time I've went to him 'Well, Danny, how about it, are you
                        strong to-day?' 'How much?' that's all, understand?
                        'How much?' Good up to limit. He knowed, too, that any time I had anything in
                        my cloze he could come and get it. That's me, you know. If a friend's right,
                        he can have anything. That's me."
                    
                        THE BOY.
                    
                    He tapped Doc' Home on the knee and squinted at him.
                    "That' s proper," said Doc', because he
                        couldn't think of anything else to say.
                    "Well, I was out with Dan one night, an' that was right in this
                        town, tooState Street. We went into a place and we'd had two glasses of beermebbe it
                        was three. I know I bought and then Danny come back at me, and it seems to me I had 'em
                        piled up againmebbe not."
                    The dentist fidgeted in his chair and looked at the clock.
                    
                    "Anyway, after we'd had 'em, I noticed a guy
                        standin' at the bar kind o'well, s'pose the bar run from me over to
                        the steam heater, I'd be standin' where that chair is and this fellow where
                        you're settin' there" (indicating the
                            dentist). "Let's seeyes, that was about the way of it. He was a husky
                        guy, toobroad shoulders, big mits, understand?big fellow."
                    Doc' Home blinked at the freckled boy and rubbed his nose with violence.
                    "Well, this fellow was standin' here and me over there, when I hear
                        him say: 'I wonder where his cheap nobs got the hat'meanin' me. I had
                        on a new white Fedora hat, cost me three-fiftyelegant hat. When I hear him say this, without
                        turnin' around, mind you, I says loud enough for him to hear: 'Don't
                        let the hat worry you, just keep your face closed.' I was lookin' in the
                        mirror behind the bar, understand?an' I see him start along the bar toward
                        meunderstand, don't you? I see it in the mirror."
                    "Certainly we understand," said Doc'.
                    "He come at me," continued the freckled boy, rising, "just
                        as if I'd come right up here at you" (indicating
                            Doc'). "He's comin', see? and I'm
                        lookin' at him in the  mirror. I
                        didn't turn around at all till he was in reach, and then I turnedlike thatand if I
                        didn't hand him a jolt that he'll remember! Mamma!"
                    "Hit him, eh?" asked Doc', affecting a mild interest.
                    "Hit him? Sayhere! Le' me show you now. He was comin'
                        along the bar, see? and was just behind me when I swung around. It wasn't a punch
                        exactly; it was more of a hookI kind o' pivoted on him. You know what that is, the
                        Marine blow, the one that put Dempsey out. I caught him right, too."
                    He doubled his fist and placed it against Doc's chin in order to illustrate
                        the manner in which he did it.
                    "I got him right there," he continued, pushing with his fist as he
                        spoke.
                    "If I'd caught him farther back," said the freckled boy,
                        running his fingers along Doc's jawbone, "I might 'a broke my
                        knuckles and not brought him down neither. I got him right, though. He didn't know
                        whether he was in Chicago or East Skowhegan."
                    With that he went to his chair, flushed and happy.
                    
                    "Gentlemen, I must bid you good-night," said Doc', as he
                        arose. "I dislike to tear myself away from these jovial reminiscences, but I have some
                        writing to do in my room."
                    He looked at the freckled boy and gave a barely perceptible shake of the head and
                        then walked over to get his key. The lightning dentist followed and spoke to him.
                        "Doc', I saw a fine girl to-day."
                    "So soon?"
                    "Well, never put off till to-morrow what should have been done ten years
                        ago."
                    "You simply saw her or you met her, which?"
                    "Well, I saw her and I can meet her if I want to."
                    "Attractive?"
                    "My God!"
                    "H'm."
                    The dentist told of her occupation and suggested that no language could aptly
                        describe her personal charms.
                    "Where is the place?" asked Doc'.
                    "The Hyperion Quick Lunch, just two doors from our building."
                    "Well, don't be in too much haste."
                    Next day Doc' called at the Hyperion  Quick Lunch, and when evening came he had a piece of news for the dentist.
                    "Abandon all hope," he whispered to him as they sat with the other
                        members of the colony who were assisting the police to unravel the latest
                        "mystery."
                    "What do you mean?" asked the dentist, quick to take alarm.
                    "She is the wife of the manager."
                
                
                
                    VII
                    DOC' DECIDES TO LEAVE THE HOTEL
                    It becomes necessary to report three calamities affecting members of the Alfalfa
                        colony.
                    First was the discovery that the chosen wife of the dentist was already married to
                        the manager of the Hyperion Quick Lunch. Second was the freckled boy, who persisted in joining
                        the group on no provocation, and talking of his prowess and his ability to fascinate women. The
                        third was a clash between Doc' and the lusha vulgar exhibition of what Doc'
                        afterward called the "ruder passions belonging to a primitive state of
                        society."
                    It may be said to the credit of the lightning dentist that he showed no inclination
                        to quarrel with Fate when he learned that the beautiful cashier at the Hyperion was already
                        married.
                    "Fortunately the thing hadn't gone very far," he remarked
                        to Doc'.
                    
                    "And the woman, although pleasing to the eye, was of a cold and
                        unsympathetic nature," said Doc'. "I knew that the moment I looked at
                        her. You are not discouraged by this preliminary experience?"
                    "Not at all."
                    To prove which he soon found one who seemed desirable and who was not married, as
                        will be related hereafter.
                    
                        THE DAILY ROUTINE.
                    
                    The freckled boy threatened to be a permanent affliction, and yet this boy, like
                        every other organic being, had certain uses which were discovered in due time.
                    The distressing encounter between Doc' and the lush might be passed over in
                        silence were it not for the fact that it helped to make the subsequent reconciliation more
                        warming to all concerned.
                    The trouble came in the following manner:
                    
                    One evening the lush had been emphasizing the daily routine, and so his stare was
                        glassy as he dropped into a chair and smiled at his companions. There had been some talk about
                        dancing, and Doc' had ventured to say that although he had not danced a great deal in
                        recent years, he had no doubt that he could go out on the floor and waltz until two
                        o'clock in the morning.
                    "By y'rself, Doc'?" asked the lush.
                    "I am not in the habit of waltzing by myself," said Doc',
                        somewhat stiffly. "When I used to go about a great deal in Philadelphia society I was
                        counted one of the best waltzers in the city."
                    "Phil'delphi'! Doc', y're
                        ringin' in a new one on us. When's you in
                        Phil'delphi'?"
                    "I was in Philadelphia the latter part of the
                        "6o's." said Doc', moving uneasily in his chair. "I
                        don't know that it concerns you, but some of the best people in Philadelphia are my
                        friends."
                    "D' they know it?" asked the lush.
                    Doc' made no reply for several moments, but it could be seen by the nervous
                        manner in which he handled his cigar that he had been deeply offended. Finally he turned to the
                        lush and said: "Sir, I  can overlook the
                        insinuation contained in your remark. You have been drinking."
                    "I nev' drink," replied the lush.
                    "What I want to know is, do these Phil'delphi' people know
                        they're friends yours?"
                    "I am not in the habit of answering such foolish questions."
                    "Where is Phil'delphi', Doc'?"
                    Doc' drew at his cigar until the live end was glowing red.
                    "On th' dead, Doc', did y' ever see
                        Phil'delphi'?" and the lush chuckled.
                    Doc' was striving to preserve a dignified silence. The race-track man and
                        the dentist kept back the lurking smiles.
                    "Wha' railroad is it on?" asked the lush.
                    "Sir-r-r!" said Doc', suddenly turning, "do you
                        realize that these remarks are insulting? I can make certain allowances for a man in your
                        condition, but I object, sir, to having you or any one else call into question any statements I
                        may make to these gentlemen here."
                    "Get ep," said the lush, from whose flushed face the amiable smile
                        had never departed.
                    "And I want it understood," added Doc'.
                    
                    The drinks had been badly mixed, and the lush was reckless.
                    "Don't mean me, do you, Doc'?"he asked.
                    "Yes, I mean you."
                    "What'd I do?"
                    "You appeared to doubt certain statements that I made to these gentlemen
                        here."
                    "When's that?"
                    "Just a few moments ago."
                    "About Phil'delphi'?"
                    "Yes, sir."
                    "Tha's all right. I s'pose y've been
                        there."
                    "Suppose? Didn't you hear me say that I had been there?"
                    "Y' got friends there, too?"
                    "Yes, sir, I have got friends there."
                    "Well, I jus' wondered if they know 'bout it."
                    "Exactly so, and I don't want you to say anything of the kind
                        again."
                    "Y'aint mad, are you, Doc'?"
                    "Never you mind whether I'm mad or not. I've told you
                        several times that I am of a sensitive nature, and when any man deliberately attempts to
                        belittle my statements he will hear from me. Yes, sir," and he glared at the race-track
                        man and the dentist.
                    
                    "Y' wouldn't lick me, would you, Doc'?"
                        asked the lush, with a labored wink at the dentist.
                    "I make no threats," replied Doc', rummaging in his
                        pockets for a match with which to relight his cigar.
                    The lush looked at Doc' unsteadily and his lips moved in an effort to reopen
                        the discussion. He turned to the race-track man and the dentist for encouragement, but they were
                        grave and noncommittal.
                    The lush brightened up all at once. "Oh, Doc'," said he,
                        "wha' state's Phil'delphi' in?"
                    "Silence!" And the voice of the infuriated man rose to a shriek.
                    The lush leaned back in his chair and began to cackle at his joke.
                    In another instant Doc' had arisen and made a right-hand pass at the lush,
                        missing him only about two feet.
                    The race-track man jumped in front of Doc' and tried to calm him.
                    The lush stood up and began a very deliberate effort to remove his coat, but the
                        dentist seized him by the shoulders and pushed him through the street doorway and into the hotel
                        corridor.
                    
                    "Le'm come on," shouted the lush, valiantly, as he was
                        pushed along; "I'm purt' good scrapper m'self."
                    "Stand aside, sir, stand aside," shouted Doc', as he
                        attempted to dodge past the race-track man. "I have a right to demand satisfaction of
                        that scoundrel."
                    "Sit down," urged the race-track man.
                    "Don't pay any attention to him. He's drunk."
                    "That may be, sir; but he must not insult a Home, drunk or sober."
                    "Well, he's gone now. Wait till he gets sober and then talk to
                        him."
                    The dentist, having conducted the lush through a side door to the bar-room, returned
                        to the front door and assisted in pacifying Doc'. As soon as Doc' became
                        convinced that it was his duty, as a Horne, to ignore the cheap insinuations of a tipsy man, he
                        recovered his spirits and told how he had been similarly insulted at a club in San Francisco in
                        1873. He knocked the man through a plate-glass mirror, and when he offered to pay for the glass
                        the club would not permit him to do so, claiming that he had done what any gentleman should have
                        done under the circumstances.
                    
                    Just as Doc' was concluding this story the lush, who had been refreshed by
                        several new drinks, came slowly toward the front door and halted about twenty feet away from
                        Doc' and his audience.
                    "Doc', y're big bluff," said he, very thickly, as
                        he teetered back and forth. "Y're full canal waternev' saw
                        Phil'delph'."
                    "Don't pay any attention to him," said the race-track man
                        to Doc'. "He doesn't know what he's saying."
                    So Doc' preserved a grim silence.
                    The lush, having vindicated himself, executed a serpentine course back to the office
                        and was then taken to his room in the custody of a bell-boy.
                    "That is the first time I have lost my temper since 1880," said
                        Doc'.
                    Next day the lush was apprised of what he had done, so he went to Doc' and
                        said: "II want to apologize for what happened last night."
                    "Your apology is accepted," replied Doc', speaking with
                        much reserve. It was evident that he had not forgiven the lush.
                    Two days after the attempted assault, the race-track man said to the dentist:
                    
                    "Were you out in front the other evening when Doc' told about being
                        elected recorder of Tracy County, Ohio, in 1858?"
                    "I heard him speak of it, but I wouldn't be sure of names or
                        dates."
                    "Well, I remember the name, and I remember the date, and I think
                        I've got him nailed. This morning I was over in the public library to look up a point
                        and decide a bet for a friend of mine, and while I was looking through the catalogue I saw a.
                        book, 'Complete History and Official Register of Ohio'; understand? I got it
                        out, and sure enough I found in the back part a list of the counties and the officers ever since
                        the organization. I turned to Tracy County, and I found that a man named Thomas Pettit was
                        recorder from 1858 to 1862. I thought I might have been mistaken as to the year, but I
                        couldn't find Doc's name anywhere in the book. He never held an office in that
                        county at all."
                    "Oh, well, what if he didn't? You're not going to say
                        anything to him about it, are you? I don't believe I would. You know Doc" is
                        as sensitive as a woman, and"
                    "All I'm going to do is ask him which is right, him or the book
                        over in the library."
                    
                    "I don't think you ought to do it. I don't see that it can
                        do any good."
                    "Oh, well, Doc' 'll say that the book's
                        wrong."
                    That evening the race-track man found his opportunity.
                    "By the way, Doc', didn't you tell us the other evening
                        that you was once elected recorder of Tracy County, Ohio?"
                    "Yes, I believe I did tell you about it."
                    "Let's see, what year was that?"
                    "I told you the year, didn't I?"
                    "It was 1858, wasn't it?"
                    "Yes, 1858 two years before Abe Lincoln ran."
                    "The reason I asked you was that I thought you might have been mistaken as
                        to the year or the county."
                    "A man couldn't very well forget the name of a county,"
                        suggested the lush, who was in a protracted lapse of sobriety.
                    
                        "TRACY COUNTY1858."
                    
                    "Certainly not," said Doc'.
                    "There's a mistake somewhere," said the  race-trackman. "I happened to be looking
                        through a history of Ohio the other day, and it gave the name of Thomas Pettit as the man who
                        was elected recorder in Tracy County in 1858. Of course the history may be wrong, but
                        that's what it said. I wanted to be sure, so I copied it down, and I've got it
                        here." He produced from his vest pocket a folded piece of paper, and opening it, read:
                        "Tracy County, Ohio; recorder from 1858 to 1862, Thomas Pettit."
                    Doc' sat staring at the speaker, and although he made an effort to remain
                        calm, his outstretched hand was trembling as he said: "Let me sec that paper."
                    The race-track man gave the paper to him. Doc' laid it in his lap, and with
                        deliberation brought out his spectacle-case and opened it. He carefully adjusted his spectacles,
                        and then, turning sidewise so as to get the light that came out through the doorway, read what
                        was on the paper, his lips moving as he did so.
                    "Yes; this is all right. I thought maybe it said that Tom Pettit had been
                        chosen at the regular election. The history's got it right. It just says there,
                        you'll see, that he was recorder from 1858 to 1862."
                    
                    "I know, but I thought that you became recorder in 1858."
                    "I became nothing of the kind, and I didn't say so. I did say to
                        you gentlemen, without suspecting that the statement needed verification, that I was elected recorder in 1858. I did not say that I ever was recorder.
                        I had the fun of the campaign, overcame the regular majority, cleaned the other fellow out, and
                        what more did I want? Three days after I was elected I received an offer to go to Cincinnati and
                        act as business manager for a company that had just been organized to run a line of packets on
                        the Ohio River. As I hadn't qualified for the recordership I accepted the Cincinnati
                        position, and the county commissioners had to accept my resignation and elect some one to take
                        my place. One of the commissioners wanted to elect Willoughby, who had run against me, but the
                        other two were friendly to me. The feeling still ran high, so they sided with me, and elected
                        Tom Pettit, who was a cousin of mine."
                    Doc' paused and then asked: "How does it happen that you went and
                        looked this up?"
                    "I didn't look it up," the race-trackman  hastened to explain. "I just ran across it
                        accidentally."
                    "Indeed!"
                    Thereupon Doc' arose and walked away without the courtly
                        "Good-night, gentlemen," which usually fell on the group with all the flavor
                        of a benediction.
                    On the following morning Doc' notified Mr. Ike Francis, the proprietor, that
                        he intended to leave the Alfalfa Hotel as soon as he could find another room. He gave no
                        reasons.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VIII
                    TROLLEY CARS IN ST. LOUIS
                    June had come, month of roses and marriages.
                    Every morning the dentist read in his newspaper the long list of marriage licenses
                        and the full column of wedding stories. It was maddening to him, and the injustice of the whole
                        situation smote him. He wondered if he was to be a social outcast, bearing some defect which
                        made him odious to women. If not, why should he, with money and a wardrobe, have no
                        applications, being openly ready to marry any one who pleased himand Doc' Home?
                    From fretting at his failure to attract women he would turn to reviling himself as
                        one lacking courage and enterprise. He had opportunities. Why did he not improve them?
                    
                        "IT WAS MADDENING."
                    
                    
                    One day in the office he was presented to Miss Milbury, cousin of one of the
                        operatives in the Neapolitan Dental Parlors. They talked for several minutes and she suggested
                        to him that he would be welcome if he chose to come to the flat some evening with her cousin.
                    Here was the chance, and he did not allow it to slip by. He did not respond with the
                        usual and quite indefinite "Thank you," or "It's very kind
                        of you," but said, promptly: "Yes, indeed, I would be glad to call, if you
                        will suggest an evening," and the young woman, rather startled at his eagerness, said,
                        "OhahTuesday evening," and did not urge him further. But he required no
                        urging.
                    He notified Doc' Home that he was about to call on one who promised well.
                        Doc' showed a courteous interest, but volunteered no suggestions.
                    "What's the matter, Doc'?" asked the dentist.
                        "Ain't you feeling well?"
                    "You are perhaps the one person to whom I can speak freely," said
                        Doc'. "I am not entirely happy in my associations here at the Alfalfa. This
                        freckled boy is not an example of good breeding, to say the least, and his familiarities are
                        beginning to wear  on me. Our friend who drinks too
                        much offered me a gratuitous insult the other evening, and thatwell, that speculative person who
                        bets on the races has contrived to make himself disagreeable. I have been in thirty states of
                        the Union and mixed with all classes, but whenever it is possible I prefer to be with
                        gentlemen."
                    "They think the world of you, Doc'," said the dentist.
                        "I know the lush is sorry for what he did, and besides, you know, he
                        apologized."
                    The dentist said other reassuring things, with the result that when Doc'
                        walked back to the hotel after his restaurant dinner, and the freckled boy was not to be seen,
                        he took his place with the others.
                    The lush saluted him humbly and sadly. For several days the lush had been complaining
                        of stomach trouble. After an evening spent at the bar, the lush would retire at midnight,
                        cheerful and in excellent mind and body, according to his own admission.
                    Next morning he would be out of sorts.
                    There would be dry fever parching his eyes and his lips would work uneasily on
                        something of an unpleasant taste.
                    
                    "I don't know what's the matter with me this
                        morning," he would say. "My stomach seems to be out of whack. I can't
                        imagine what's the matter. I haven't been eating any fruit.
                    Then he would recall the fact that an eminent physician once told him that the best
                        thing in the world for a disordered stomach was whisky and soda.
                    Sometimes, if he had reason to believe that he was suffering from indigestion, he
                        drank whisky and pepsin. He had been known to use whisky and quinine to fight malarial symptoms.
                    In spite of his willingness to take any kind of medicine that would mix with whisky
                        harmoniously, his stomach continued to be treacherous and troublesome. This evening he was
                        gloomy, for he had been neglecting the treatment.
                    As Doc' put his chair alongside that of the dentist and looked down the hazy
                        street, which was already settling into an evening calm, a stranger, of harmless bearing and a
                        rather limp mustache, dragged a chair toward them and asked:
                    "Gentlemen, may I sit with you and enjoy this evening breeze?"
                    
                    "Certainly, certainly, my dear sir," replied Doc'.
                        "You are a new-comer at the hotel?"
                    "Yes, I am with you temporarily. My wife and the children have gone into the
                        country for a few weeks, so I closed up the house and came down here to live."
                    The dentist turned and looked at the stranger as soon as "wife" was
                        mentioned. Here was a man who had entered that state for which the dentist was striving.
                        Doubt-less he could give information.
                    "I should think a married man would find it rather lonesome around this kind
                        of a hotel," suggested the dentist.
                    The married man turned and looked at him as if startled, and then said quietly:
                        "Oh, I don't mind it."
                    "All three of us are bachelors," said the dentist.
                    "Yes, poor, miserable bachelors," added Doc', with a
                        smile, for he alone under-stood why the dentist was interested in the topic of matrimony.
                    "I don't see why you should be miserable," said the
                        married man, shaking his head. "You're just as free as the air here.
                        There's no one to find fault with anything 
                        you do. You can come and go when you please, turn in when you want to, eat and drink what you
                        likeoh, well, some people never know when they're well off."
                    "You'd get tired of it soon enough, and be more than anxious to get
                        back home," said the dentist.
                    "Oh, well, perhapsperhaps," said the married man. "Only, I
                        want to tell you that some people never know when they're well off." Then, as
                        if to vary the conversation, he turned to Doc' and said to him: "You are a
                        professional man, I believe?"
                    "Because they call me Doc'?"
                    "Yes, I supposed you were a doctor."
                    "No."
                    "And never was?"
                    "Yesand no. I never took a degree, but I did practice medicine for a whilea
                        little while. It was during the war. I was in Cincinnati at the time, engaged in certain
                        negotiations regarding a government con-tract. There was a large camp of Union soldiers near
                        Covington, and a mysterious malady had broken out among the men, a number of whom had died. The
                        sickness was a sort of combination of cholera and quinsy. At least one hundred of the soldiers
                             had it when I reached Cincinnati. As soon as I
                        learned the facts in the case I recognized the disease as one that I had suffered from myself,
                        in Louisiana. I had made a thorough study of it, and by certain experiments had got the remedy
                        for it. Well, I went to the camp and announced my willingness to treat the patients. At first
                        the surgeons wouldn't listen to me, but I had influential friends in the army who
                        brought them to time, and I had my way. You see, this epidemic had baffled them, and they
                        didn't like to admit that any one knew how to handle it. Gentlemen, I began treating
                        those men, and in ten days I had every one on his feet, feeling like a fighting cock. Of course
                        the whole camp supposed I was a physician, and so I was called Doc' by the officers and
                        men alike. The appellation of Doc' followed me to "
                    
                        "I SEEN 'EM.
                    
                    "Say, what do you think a fellow said to  me just now?" asked a boisterous voice, and the four men thus
                        suddenly disturbed looked up and saw the freckled scourge.
                    Doc's story was never finished.
                    "A fellow was tryin' to tell me that this town had trolley cars
                        before St. Louis did," said the freckled boy, placing his hand on Doc'
                        Home's knee and glaring at the embarrassed old gentleman. "Now, what do you
                        think o' the nerve o' some people? I seen them trolley cars in St. Louis long
                        enough before they was here. Ain't that right, huh?"
                    "I don't know," replied Doc', looking steadfastly
                        toward the front door.
                    "Well, I know, you can gamble on that. The nerve o' that guy! I
                        tell you I seen 'em in St. Louis before they knowed what a trolley pole was in this
                        town. It's funny if I wouldn't know it, too, bein' in both places.
                        You can bet they had trolley cars in St. Louis before they had 'em here. I'd
                        like to bet a thousand on it. I just think that'd be easy moneythat's what I
                        think. This fellow might stand around all day and tell that to people that don't know
                        no better, but I'm tellin' you that I seen 'em there. I'll
                        call anybody down on them statements."
                    
                    The four stared drearily at the freckled boy. He seemed to interpret their silence as
                        a contradiction of what he had been saying. At least they did not appear to be properly
                        convinced, or they would have said so.
                    "I seen them trolley cars in St. Louis when they didn't have
                        'em in but mighty few towns in this country," said he, impressively tapping
                        the lush on the breast. Then he laughed scornfully and continued: "This fellow I was
                        talkin' to thought he had some boy that'd never been around any. I know when
                        they begin to run trolley cars in St. Louis and I know when they used the first cable in Kansas
                        City. Mebbe I know it and mebbe I don't. If I don't, then some guy can win a
                        little bundle o' money." He put his hand into his watch pocket, as if to draw
                        out a roll of bills, and then paused and began a new attack on the imaginary foe who was
                        persisting that Chicago had trolley cars before St. Louis had any.
                    "W'y, there was lots of towns had trolley, cars before this town
                        had 'em," said he, with a contemptuous glance at the married man.
                        "Yes, you bet, there was a good and plenty of towns had 'em."
                    
                    "Well, what of it?" asked Doc' Horne, sharply.
                    "What of it? W'y, didn't this fellow out here try to tell
                        me that you had trolley cars here before they ever had 'em in St. Louis? Say, if that
                        didn't make me sick. I called him in a minute, and I had him cinched, too, becuz I seen
                        'em down there."
                    Doc' moaned and then arose and started away.
                    "And then he shut up," added the freckled boy, smiling proudly, as
                        he dropped into the chair vacated by Doc'.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IX
                    HOME LIFE IN TWO EPISODES
                    The married man's conversation frightened the dentist.
                    "Did you hear what he said, Doc'?" asked 
                            "SHE."
                         the dentist later in the evening. They were having one of their confidential
                        dialogues.
                    "Yes, but what of it?"
                    "Why, here we've been at this hotel, complaining because we had no
                        homes, or firesides, oror children or any-thing, and along comes this married man with a wife
                        and a home and two children, and so on, and seems to be tickled to death to get to the hotel
                        here and live with us. That's a fact. After you left he said he only wished to the Lord
                        he could settle right down and stay with  us. And he
                        kept on saying that us fellows here didn't know when we were well off. I'll
                        tell you, Doc', that kind of talk is enough to worry a man who's getting ready
                        to jump into matrimony at the first chance."
                    "Nonsense, my dear fellow," said Doc', tilting his head
                        backward and smiling at the dentist in mild benevolence. "You know and I know that
                        there have been unhappy marriages. That is no indication that your marriage will be a failure.
                        Besides, this married man may have spoken hastily. Before a month has passed he will be anxious
                        to go back to his family. Perhaps his wife nags him sometimes and he is glad to get away from
                        her for a few weeks now and then. Or perhaps he has soured her life by his indifference, and now
                        puts the blame on her. Don't let his experience frighten you."
                    Now, in order that the married man at the Alfalfa European Hotel may not be set up as
                        a fair specimen of his kind, it is well that one should know something about his wife. Not that
                        she is a fair specimen either, but simply the kind of martyr who would encourage a husband to
                        seek peace with the shaggy bachelors at the Alfalfa.
                    
                    FIRST EPISODE
                    (She is at the breakfast table with Walter, aged eleven,
                            and Lulu, aged six. He comes, with a morning paper in his hand. He sits and reads.)
                    She"Children, say good-morning to your papa."
                    Walter"Good-morning, papa."
                    Lulu"Good-morning, papa."
                    He"Good morning, children."
                    She"I want you children to always speak to your papa in the morning, whether
                        he notices you or not."
                    He"I see that the President started on his trip.
                    Walter"Where's he going, papa?"
                    She"Sh-h-h! When your papa comes to the breakfast table he doesn't
                        want to talk to any one. I'll explain to you what it is after breakfast,
                        Walter."
                    He (lowering paper)"What is it he wants to
                        know?"
                    She"Never mind, Walter. I'll tell you after breakfast. Your father
                        isn't in a very good humor this morning. He was out late last night."
                    
                    He"I wasn't out very late."
                    She"I'd like to know what time it was when you came in."
                    He"Huh?"
                    She"Well, if you're so intent on that paper, I'll not
                        disturb you. Walter! Eat all of your oatmeal."
                    Walter "I don't want any more, mamma."
                    She"Well, I want you to eat more oat-meal and less fruit."
                    He"I wouldn't compel him to eat oat-meal unless he wants
                        it."
                    She"Very well, Walter, you may eat whatever you please. That seems to be
                        your father's idea of dieting a child. What's
                        the matter with you, Lulu?"
                    Lulu"I'm sleepy."
                    She"Did you wake up when your father came in?"
                    Lulu"No'm."
                    She"Well, it's a wonder. He made enough noisecoming in at all hours
                        of the night!"
                    He"I came in oncethat was all."
                    She"That was late enough, goodness knows."
                    He"Oh, it wasn't so very late."
                    
                    She"I'd like to know what time it was."
                    He"It was about twelve, I guess."
                    She"Indeed? I heard it strike twelve some time before you came insome little time before you came in."
                    He"Well, if it struck twelve before I came in it must have been after twelve
                        when I arrived."
                    She"Indeed, it was!"
                    He"All right, we've got that settled, and now you may pour me a cup
                        of coffee, sweetness."
                    She"Please don't use such language
                        as that in the presence of the children. I judged it must have been one
                        o'clock."
                    He"What was one o'clock?"
                    She"When you came in."
                    He"Are you still talking about that?"
                    She"I can very well understand why you
                        don't want to talk about it."
                    He"Why? What do you suspect?"
                    She"Well, wasn't it one o'clock?"
                    He"I don't think so. I came home on the cable car."
                    She"The last cable car?"
                    He"Well, I didn't wait to see if any more came along."
                    She"Oh, you didn't?"
                    
                    He"No, ma'am."
                    She"What time does the last cable run?"
                    He"I don't know; but you can find out at the general offices.
                    She"Oh, I can, can I?"
                    He"Yes, ma'am."
                    She"Do your lodge meetings last until midnight?"
                    He"Not very often."
                    She"Then you were not at the lodge meeting
                            all the time?"
                    He"I was there all of the time there was any meeting going on. I had to
                        leave after the meeting adjourned, because the man wanted to lock up the place."
                    She"Oh, you did, did you?"
                    He"Yes, ma'am. Will you have another piece of bacon?"
                    She"Where was the meeting held?"
                    He"Masonic Temple."
                    She"And it took you until one o'clock to get from the Masonic
                        Temple up to the house here?"
                    He"Did it?"
                    She"How long does it take to come home on the cable?"
                    He"What is thata conundrum?"
                    
                    She"The meeting couldn't have lasted later than eleven
                        o'clock."
                    He"You're talking about the lodge meeting now?"
                    She"I most certainly am. You must have gone
                        somewhere after the meeting."
                    He"I always go somewhere after every lodge meeting. I have to."
                    She"You don't come homeevidently."
                    He"When, after the lodge meeting? That's when I always come
                        homeafter the meeting. You don't expect me to come home before the meeting, do you,
                        dear?"
                    She"I must say that I don't see any-thing to laugh at."
                    He"Don't you? Well, I enjoy this."
                    She"I'd like to know how you put in your time late at night
                        downtown."
                    He"Well, I'll tell you what I did last night if you promise not to
                        tell any one."
                    She"Yes, I dare say you will tell me."
                    He"This is confidential. I was out robbing a house."
                    She"Humph! I suppose you think that's funny."
                    He"Well, I don't know what else to tell you. If I said that
                        I'd been out visiting disreputable  saloons
                        and drinking rum, I know you wouldn't believe that."
                    
                    She"I don't know of any place down-town that could be visited, with
                        propriety, at midnight."
                    He"Have you made a pretty thorough study of night resorts, my
                        dear?"
                    She"I dare say I don't know as much about them as you do. I think
                        it's shameful for a man who professes to be a church member."
                    He"You think what's shameful, pet?"
                    She"It's not necessary to go into details in the presence of the
                        children."
                    He"Details of what? What in the world are you talking about?"
                    She"I can not understand how you put in your
                        time at such an hour of the night."
                    He"You can't understand it?"
                    She"No, sir, I cannot."
                    He"Well, then, if you don't know how I put in my time, what is
                        there to suppress? Go ahead and tell the children all about it."
                    She"I don't think such things ought to be discussed before
                        children, anyway."
                    He"Yes, I've noticed that you feel that way about it."
                    
                    She"You seem to be rather sarcastic this morning."
                    He"Not at all."
                    (A pause.)
                    She"You're not very hungry this morning."
                    He"No; not very."
                    She"You must have had something to eat before you came home last
                        evening."
                    He"Yes."
                    She"I thought as much. Why didn't you say so at first? Do you think
                        it's the proper thing to go to such places?"
                    He"What places do you mean?"
                    She"I mean places, such as the one you
                        visited."
                    He"Oh, you know the place, do you?"
                    She"I can guess, I suppose."
                    He"Yes, ma'am."
                    She"And if it's going to have this effect on you I hope you
                        won't go very often. You seem to be very much interested
                        in your paper this morning."
                    He"Pardon me, dear. Was there any-thing you wanted to talk to me
                        about?"
                    She"Certainly not."
                    He"I thought perhaps you'd like to know where I went last night
                        after lodge meeting."
                    
                    She"Not at all. I have no curiosity in the matter whatever."
                    He"Oh, all right. I didn't know but what you'd be
                        interested to find out what it was kept me out so late. However;"(Resumes his newspaper.)
                    SECOND EPISODE
                    (It is dusk. She has put aside her fancy work and is
                            looking at the flowerbed in the center of the grass plat. He enters, humming a tune, and
                            kisses her in a dutiful manner.)
                    She"Oh!"
                    He"What's the matter? Didn't you expect it?"
                    She;"Oh! I do believe "
                    He" Believe what?"
                    She"Come here again."
                    He"What do you want?"
                    She"Come here" (pulling him down by the
                            coat as he comes near her). "I thought I
                        wasn't mistaken. I smelled it clear across the room the minute you came in."
                    He (after a pause)"Smelled what?"
                    She (looking intently at the flower-bed, and biting her
                            lower lip)"I don't know;some kind of liquor."
                    He (airily);"Oh, that? I told Scham-wurst
                        I'd get a lecture, but;he insisted."
                    
                    She"I'm afraid I haven't the pleasure of knowingMr.ahyour
                        friend."
                    He"Who, Schamwurst? He's the Ger-man that owns the new flat
                        building just beyond Berry Avenue there. I've handled most of his business for two or
                        three years, and I've just written policies to cover the 
                            "I TOLD SCHAMWURST I'D GET A LECTURE."
                         new building. That's how I happened to go into his place to-day."
                    She"What do you mean by his place?"
                    He"Why, I mean his place of business, the only one he has."
                    She"It's a saloon, isn't
                        it?"
                    He"Well, yes, it's a saloonnice, quiet German place,
                        though."
                    
                    She"Why didn't this man come to your office if he wanted to see
                        you?"
                    He"Well, I couldn't very well ask him to come all the way downtown.
                        I'm going after business, you know. I'm not asking business to hunt me up."
                    She"Then why didn't you go and see him at his home?"
                    He"I'd like to know when I'd find him at home.
                        He's in the saloon all day. Besides, he lives upstairs, and I suppose there might be
                        some objection to my visiting a place that was above a
                        saloon."
                    She"It seems to me you know a great deal about the place" (with a nervous little laugh). "You must be a frequent
                        visitor."
                    He"Oh, pshaw! I've written a policy covering his home place and I
                        know he lives upstairs."
                    She (decisively)"Well, I wouldn't transact any business with a saloon-keeper if I had to sit
                        around a doggery and drink liquor."
                    He"My sitting around consisted of a very brief visit, and I did not drink any liquor."
                    She"What was it, then?"
                    He"Well, it wasjust a glass of beer  some kind of light beer. Schamwurst was very anxious that I should try it and I "
                    She"He wanted to get you started so that you'd come there and spend
                        your money. That's the way they do."
                    He"Nonsense."
                    She"Oh, I'm talking nonsense, am I?"
                    He"Schamwurst merely wished to be courteous, that's all. How could
                        I refuse him? I didn't want him to think that I had any prejudice against him, on
                        account of his business. Besides, what's one little glass of beer?"
                    She"It contains alcohol, doesn't it?"
                    He"I suppose so. I don't know and I don't care."
                    She"Well! I think you'd better go
                        and lie down a while if beer guzzling has that effect on
                        you."
                    He (repressing himself) "I have told you
                        several times that I had one small glass of beer."
                    She"Well, you might as well drink a dozen, so far as the principle of the
                        thing is concernedevery bit."
                    He"If that's the case I'm sorry I didn't drink
                        the dozen."
                    She (sniffling)"I suppose you are."
                    
                    He"You bet I am. If I'm going to have the reputation of being a
                        drunkard I might as well have some fun along with it."
                    She"If I were you I wouldn't be in any business that compelled me
                        to visit these dens and drink alcohol and come home to my family allall reeking with"
                    He"Thank you! I am now reeking, am I? I suppose I am more or less
                        intoxicated also"
                    She"I don't care to talk about it any more. If you choose to go
                        into saloons and sit around and drink beer I don't suppose that anything I can say will
                        stop you, but I do think you ought to remember that you have two children and that you are
                        supposed to be a member of the church. I only hope for the sake of the family that none of our
                        church friends will ever catch you coming out of one of those places."
                    He"That's very good. Church friends, indeed! Don't you
                        suppose there are people in that church who keep beer right in their own houses?"
                    She"That isn't any reason why you
                        should. If it ever comes to that, that you'll have your dram right here in the house?
                        where the children"
                    
                    He"Now, who said anything about bringing stuff into this house?"
                    She"Well, if you're determined to
                        drink it, I don't see why it wouldn't be just as well for the children to see
                        it here as to find out that their father was sitting around in these resorts, drinking with
                        saloon-keepers."
                    He (arising from his chair and walking about
                        uneasily)"All right! All right! I'll have a keg sent up in the
                        morning."
                    She (breaking) "IInever expected to see you
                        in this condition."
                    He"What condition? Oh, Great Scott!"
                    She (arising and moving toward the door with the
                            handkerchief at her eyes)"I don'tdon'tthinkyou'd
                        talk this way if you"
                    He"You're quite right. I am rum's maniac. Leave me alone,
                        and I'll sleep off my debauch."
                    (She goes out.)
                    All this is told that some light may be thrown on the married man's
                        reiteration, "You fellows never know when you're well off."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER X
                    ACQUAINTANCES OR FRIENDSWHICH?
                    Doc' Home regarded his associates and fellow-roomers at the Alfalfa European
                        Hotel as mere acquaintances. A few men had floated together in one eddy of the city's
                        turbulence. They had exchanged names, swapped stories and organized themselves into a small
                        community through the promptings of a natural hunger for companionship. Members of the community
                        drifted away and were lost, and those remaining behind did not seem to miss them. Strangers came
                        and were carelessly received into fellowship. It was a loose sort of intercourse, and there was
                        no evidence that any genuine friendships were growing out of the chance meetings.
                    The humiliating encounter with the lush, the race-track man's endeavor to
                        discredit the story of Ohio politics, and the freckled boy's persistence in talking
                        slangily about himself had helped to convince Doc' Home that the dentist was his only
                        friend,  and that he (Doc') could be happier
                        in another hotel.
                    It is possible that he might have gone from the Alfalfa, had it not been for a slight
                        attack of illness which crumpled him in bed one morning. The freckled boy heard of
                        Doc's illness from the chambermaid. He went to the room at once and found Doc'
                        curled under the bed clothes into the shape of a letter S, and groaning dismally.
                    
                        THE PATIENT.
                    
                    "Great heavens, Doc'!" he exclaimed.
                        "What's the matter?"
                    "Oh, my dear sir," replied Doc', with ' a
                        quavering sigh of pain. "Oh, gee!"
                    "A fever, Doc'?"
                    "A complication, my boy. Liver wrongcaught cold on top of it. I
                        haven't had anything of this kind since I was in Washington in 1874. Oh,
                        dear!"
                    "Well, Doc', old boy, if there's anything I can do for
                        you, you bet it's me'11 do it. When any friend o' mine gets laid out
                        on his  back there's nothin' too
                        good for him. Look here! That dentist has got some new and sassy night-gowns. I'll go
                        and pinch one for you, so that you'll look good and swell when any one comes in to see
                        you."
                    "Oh, never mind," said Doc', feebly, caressing his stomach
                        region.
                    "Well, I'll do it just the same. That red flannel you're
                        wearin' may be comfortable, but, on the level, it don't help your looks
                        any."
                    So he went out and intimidated a chambermaid, who allowed him to go into the
                        dentist's room, and he returned with the "sassy" garment. Also, he
                        loudly ordered the chambermaid to bring clean pillowslips.
                    The gown was a white, starchy garment with red scallops around the neck and down the
                        front. After Doc' had put on the gown and propped himself up against two fat, white
                        pillows he made a respectable appearance, although he insisted that he suffered as much as ever.
                    "I've got to duck," said the freckled boy.
                        "I've told that kid to come up here every little while to see what you want.
                        I'll see you later."
                    
                    "Don't put yourself out on my account, 'said
                        Doc', timidly.
                    "Look here!" exclaimed the boy, laying his hand on the old
                        man's shoulder. "You're sick, and we're goin' to
                        take care of you. You bet if there's anything you want you can get it."
                    Doc' tried to say something, but failed. He simply nodded.
                    When the freckled boy went downstairs he met the lush, to whom he told the news. The
                        lush was on his way to the bar to try a gin cocktail as a remedy for heartburn, but he forgot
                        his own malady when he heard about Doc'.
                    Without waiting for the slow elevator to come down he bounded up the stairway three
                        steps at a time and dashed into Doc's little room at the end of the hall.
                    "By George, Doc', you must excuse me for not coming up sooner, but
                        I just heard about this."
                    "I didn't give in until last night," said Doc'.
                        "My physician thinks it's nothing serious.''
                    "Well, by thunder, you knowcan't take any chances. Did he give you
                        any medicine?"
                    
                    "Yes; some capsules and drops."
                    "Rats! If you've got a cold and feel sort of run down the best
                        thing you can do is to get a bottle of good whisky and hit it about every half hour. Now,
                        Doc', I'm goin' to get you some that I know is all right."
                    "Maybe I hadn't better" began Doc'.
                    
                        WITH SUPPLIES.
                    
                    "Oh, pshaw! Good whisky can't hurt you. I've been this way
                        myself two or three times, and whisky is the only thing that ever helped me. I'll be
                        back in a little while."
                    He hurried away, and fifteen minutes later, as he came into the office with a basket
                        of peaches in one hand and a quart bottle of whisky in the other, he met the race-track man.
                    "What are you doing with that stuff?" asked the race-track man.
                    "Great Scott! Haven't you heard? Doc's laid up in his room
                        sick as he can  be. I've been out buying
                        some things for him."
                    "You don't expect a sick man to eat a peck of peaches, do
                        you?"
                    "A little fruit won't hurt him. I've got a quart of whisky
                        there that cost me two dollars. That ought to fix him. Come on up and see the old boy."
                    "Sure, I will. I wonder if he's got anything to read? Expect
                        I'd better buy something."
                    The race-track man went out and purchased all the morning papers, a copy of
                        "Lovers Once, but Strangers Now," and a New York weekly paper filled with
                        scandalous half-tone reproductions of photographs.
                    The two men carried their supplies up to Doc's room and laid them on the
                        bedspread in front of him.
                    "Honestly, boysthis is too much; don't go to all this
                        trouble," said Doc', who was really embarrassed.
                    These two men, of all!
                    "I'm rather afraid to eat fruit," he said.
                    "Well, here's something you needn't be afraid
                        of," said the lush, calling attention to the bottle of whisky. Merely to prove  that the liquor was all right he drew the cork and
                        poured a heavy drink into the glass on the table and drank it with great ease.
                    "Now, Doc'," said he, pouring another drink.
                    "I expect I'd better not drink anything until I see my
                        physician," said Doc'.
                    "You take it then," said the lush, offering the glass to the
                        race-track man.
                    "No, I never drink in the morning," was the reply.
                    The lush gazed at the drink thoughtfully, and, after a moment's hesitancy,
                        swallowed it.
                    "Now, Doc'," said he, "don't you want me
                        to read to you?"
                    "No, I don't want to put you to all that"
                    "Get out! You must think we're barbarians to neglect an old friend
                        when he's sick. I can stay here all day and read to you. Say, Doc', on the
                        square, you ought to take a good drink of that liquor. It would put new life into you."
                    "I'm afraid to try it."
                    The lush spent the greater part of the day in Doc's bedroom, striving to
                        perform various services for the patient. At  times
                        Doc' would be calm and free from pain, and at other times he would rub his stomach
                        region, wince and groan. At such times the lush would become greatly excited. He would take a
                        small drink to quiet his nerves and would then declare, with some profanity, that it
                        "broke him all up" to see an old friend suffer.
                    When the lightning dentist arrived at the hotel late in the afternoon and heard the
                        news from Mr. Ike Francis, he ran out and purchased a bouquet of yellow roses. Going in on
                        tiptoe, he laid the flowers on the spread.
                    Doc' saw the bouquet, and his cup ran over. He tried to blink away the
                        tears, and the lightning dentist was so embarrassed that he turned and went out, still on
                        tiptoe.
                    He came back later, when he was sure that he could control his feelings. The lush had
                        given up nursing, and retired to his room to take a nap.
                    "You boys have been kind to me to-day," said Doc', who was
                        sitting half-way up, with the yellow roses in front of him. "My God! what a thing it is
                        to have friends! I've made fortunes and I've lost them, but I made good
                        friends and I never lost them.
                    
                    It's a great blessing, my dear sir, to grow old and still hold to your faith
                        in humanity Even that freckled boy"
                    "Are you feeling some better by this time?"
                    "I'll be all right to-morrow. I know these attacks, and I know how
                        to combat them."
                    "I'd spend the evening with you, Doc', but this is my
                        night to go and call on Miss Milbury."
                    "Is she the one you mentioned the other day?"
                    "Yes, and I'm anxious to know her better, because she's
                        darned pretty and seems to be very refined."
                    "You might drop in after you get home and tell me what kind of a time you
                        had."
                    "I'd like to, first-rate, if it wouldn't be disturbing
                        you. If you fall asleep you wouldn't want to be"
                    "Oh, that's all right. Come right in. I'll be
                        awake."
                    Sure enough, Doc' was awake when the dentist returned from his call. The
                        lush was there. After taking his nap he had returned to his post of duty and now he sat near the
                        bedside, gazing at Doc' with an  expression
                        of plaintive solicitude and an air of wavering sleepiness.
                    "I'm bringin' him 'round all
                        ri'," he remarked.
                    The presents were on the table. The infallible remedy in the quart bottle had been
                        reduced in quantity until it was halfway down the label, but the basket of peaches was still
                        unbroken.
                    "You had a pleasant evening?" asked Doc', looking up from
                        the pillows.
                    "Great!" replied the dentist, not choosing to be any more specific
                        in the presence of the lush.
                    The dentist wore light gray coat and trousers, patent-leather shoes, a plaid
                        waistcoat of hempen material, a blue and white bow tie and a roan-colored derby hat. On his
                        lapel was a large flower, although it was small for a peony.
                    Catching Doc's eye, he looked down at the flower and touched it with his
                        thumb, and then Doc' knew she had given it to him.
                    "Ain't I good nurse, Doc'?" asked the lush.
                    "You certainly have been kind and faithful to-day," replied
                        Doc'.
                    
                    "Yes, but when a man's laid up, a woman is the only one who can
                        take care of him,' suggested the dentist.
                    "Oh, I don' know," said the lush. "I'm
                        pretty goo' little nurse myself."
                    "Just the same, if I'm going to be sick, I want a woman to nurse
                        me," said the dentist.
                    "That's where a woman is an angel, gentlemen a ministering angel,
                        sure enough, is in the sick-room," remarked Doc', putting his head higher on
                        the pillow so that he could look out at them. "Once I was taken suddenly ill in New
                        Orleans and had to go to the hospital. I was delirious for four weeksclear out of my head. The
                        third day of my illness, so they told me afterward, a beautiful woman attired in black came to
                        the hospital and asked permission to nurse me, saying that she was a friend of mine. Well, sir,
                        that woman was at my bedside almost constantly for a month. The attendants at the hospital said
                        they never witnessed a more wonderful exhibition of gentleness and devotion. On the day when I
                        regained consciousness this woman left the hospital and I never could learn who she was or why
                        she had  taken such an interest in me. I made every
                        effort to find her, but I couldn't do it. I guess it's time to take another of
                        those capsules.''
                    The lush was willing to sit up all night, but the dentist understood, and succeeded
                        in taking him away. When they were in the hallway the lush said: "New Orleanshoshpital.
                        Doc' has ev'y slymptom of man's goin' to get
                    well."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XI
                    A LECTURE ON THE COCKTAIL
                    Being restablished in warmest fellowship with the members of the hotel colony,
                        Doc' looked hopefully toward his task of finding a wife for the dentist, and then
                        voluntarily accepted the burden of reforming thelush.
                    
                        ABSTINENCE.
                    
                    The lush, sober, was a well-behaved person and one slow to admit that he ever drank
                        too much or too often. Like other drinking men, he believed that he could deceive him-self and
                        deceive others. If any one had suggested "reform" to him, he would have been
                        deeply hurt. What was there to reform?
                    
                    Acting under the orders of a physician, once he had stopped drinking for a full week.
                        That is, he drank only Jamaica ginger and hard cider during this period of abstinence, on the
                        technical claim that they were not alcoholic liquors. He changed his diet also, and ate lunches
                        somewhat like the following:
                    Turtle Soup with sherry.
                    Rum Omelette.
                    Maraschino Punch.
                    Mince Pie with brandy sauce.
                    He kept the pledge for a week, and was in misery most of the time, and then went back
                        to drinking, announcing that the experiment was a failure.
                    Doc' had talked with him in private and suggested, with much diplomacy, that
                        he drink nothing but lithia water for a frill month.
                    "That stuff is poison to me, Doc'," he would say.
                        "I know what you want. You want me to let up on the other thing, but you're
                        wrong, Doc'you are, for a fact." He was not deeply offended. In fact, he was
                        rather amused that any one should think it advisable for him to change his habits.
                    
                    One evening, in front of the hotel, he announced that he had found a drink cure.
                    "You've been giving me good advice,
                        Doc','' he said, nudging the dentist, "and so
                        you'll be interested to know that I've found something that will cure any man
                        of drinking."
                    "What is it?" asked Doc', declining to be amused.
                    "A German cocktail. Did you ever notice what happens in a German garden when
                        you order a cocktail? Well, it simply throws all the machinery out of gear. The waiter has to go
                        and consult the manager, and the manager calls a conference of bartenders, and they all get
                        together and talk it over, and then somebody gets out a book and reads the directions. They put
                        a tumbler out on the bar, and every man who remembers anything that goes into a cocktail comes
                        and drops it into this tumbler. I don't know myself, but a friend of mine says that the
                        first thing a German puts into a cocktail is a jigger of Pilsener beer. Then they begin on the
                        green bottles behind the bar and finish up with a little Rhine wine and a straw. I know it took
                        them a half-hour to compound thiswhatever it was they  brought me the other night. It came on in a kind of a small fruit dish and had cherries,
                        orange peel, watermelon, pineapple and several other kinds of fruit around the edges, and
                        some"
                    "I guess it wasn't as bad as that," said the dentist,
                        laughing.
                    "Well, it broke all records with me. It seemed to have every ingredient
                        except the one that makes a cocktail worth drinking. I know I could taste the caraway seed in
                        it. They put a few caraway seeds into everything. But I drank it, and then I came back here to
                        the hotel and had a dream that I'll remember if I live to be a million years old. This
                        cocktail was giving me trouble, and I wasn't sure that I could sleep. I think I did
                        fall asleep, however. I hope I was asleep when it happened.
                    "I felt something tickling my feet, and I looked up over the covers, and
                        there was a yellow monkey sitting on the foot-board. He says, 'What time is
                        it?' I told him I didn't know. Then he says, 'Don't you
                        remember me?' I told him that his face was familiar, but I couldn't place him.
                        He laughed very pleasantly, and then he began mixing drinks. He'd balance one glass on
                             his head and curl his tail around another glass
                        containing the drink. He'd give his tail a flip and send the liquor up into the air,
                        and it would all come down in the glass on his head without spilling a drop. Then he'd
                        change glasses and repeat the performance.
                    "I complimented him on his dexterity, or rather his caudality, and then he
                        told me he'd like to introduce a friend. I said, 'All right,' so he
                        put the end of his tail in his mouth and blew on it, like a whistle, and a polka-dot alligator
                        crawled up on the footboard and sat down alongside the monk. I must say the alligator worried me
                        a little. He was black, with white spots, and he had electric lights in his eyes. I saw
                        something like it once before at a variety theater. One eye would go out and the other would
                        keep on shining, and then they'd change about. Then both would go out for a minute,
                        Sometimes they'd simply blink, rapidly.
                    "The alligator looked at me, and then he said to the monkey, 'What
                        time did he say it was?' The monkey told him I didn't know, and then both of
                        them laughed. By George, that alligator had the most disagreeable laugh I ever heard in all my
                        life!
                    "The monkey jumped down on the bedspread  and walked up and sat on the pillow right beside my head. He began smoothing
                        back my hair, using first one paw and then the other. One was as hot as fire and the other as
                        cold as ice. In the meantime
                    Mr. Alligator sat on the footboard and gave me the laugh. All at once he yelled,
                        'Get his eye!' The next thing I knew that monkey had his hind legs twined
                        around my neck and was trying to take one of my eyes out. It occurred to me that he was
                        presuming too much on short acquaintance, and I made a fight, but he was too good for me. He got
                        the eye all right. Yes, and as soon as he got it, he made a jump clear out into the middle of
                        the floor. Then, what do you think? Why, he and the alligator moved the dresser out from the
                        wall and began to play 'ant'ny over' with my eye. Wasn't
                        that a nerve for you? It was the first game of 'ant'ny over'
                        I'd seen since I was a boy.
                    
                        "GET HIS EYE!"
                    
                    
                    "When the alligator got excited he stood right up and balanced himself on
                        the tip of his tail, and the electric lights in his eyes changed colors. One moment
                        they'd be blue, then green, then red, and so on. I sat there watching the game for ten
                        minutes or more, I should judge, and then I looked around, and in the corner of the room was
                        something that looked like a prairie wolf keeping score! That's the last I remember. I
                        think I must have rolled over in bed and started another set of wheels."
                    "Merciful Providence!" gasped the dentist. "All that from
                        one cocktail?"
                    "I had other things, but it was the cocktailone German cocktailthat made all
                        the trouble. That's why I call it the drink cure. The man who tackles one of those
                        every night will either stop or else they'll carry him away with a floral monkey on top
                        of the casket."
                    "The cocktail is an enemy to normal civilization," said
                        Doc', leaning back in his chair and assuming the manner of a lecturer in a college of
                        law. "It is a convivial little devil, prompting us to take what we do not need.
                    "Half the people nowadays are not satisfied  with simple and plain food. A man has to hit his stomach with a fiery
                        cocktail before he can eat a bite. Then he sits down and begins putting mustard, horseradish,
                        chili sauce, pepper and other stuff on his meat before it has the right sting. Is it any wonder
                        that he gets his system into such a condition that an oyster cracker has no more taste than a
                        paper wad? Why, you'll see a man put a drop of tabasco sauce on each cracker so that he
                        will know the cracker is there. The tabasco sauce helps him to locate it."
                    "That's no lie," said the lush, for he was addicted to the
                        habit of eating loaded crackers.
                    "My old home in Pennsylvania was three miles from the schoolhouse,"
                        said Doc'. "I used to walk it every morning and carry my books and a little
                        basket of lunch. Sometimes it would be colder than Greenland's icy mountains, but
                        I'd put on my yarn mittens and wrap my comforter around my head, and go the whole three
                        miles on a dog-trotyes, sir. By the time we got our noon recess I was ready to eat everything in
                        that basket, even if it were cold bread and butter and doughnuts. Then when school  was over, you'd see me tramping down that
                        long lane, kicking tip the snowperfectly contented, you know. I didn't need any cable
                        cars to haul me around.
                    "I'd get home about dusk and hurry out to help with the chores.
                        We'd have to feed the stock and put down some hay and milk the cows, and then
                        I'd get in my wood.
                    
                        NO CABLE CARS.
                    
                    Before I'd get through it would be dark. I'd come into the house,
                        and there would be my mother in the kitchen, standing in front of our old cast-iron stove, her
                        sleeves rolled up, stirring a pot of mush. She'd always order me out of the kitchen,
                        but I'd stay, just the same. A hungry boy always likes to see the supper
                        cooked."
                    "That's so," said the dentist, with a sigh.
                    
                    "Well, sir, that mush would boil and sputter so that mother would have to
                        stand off at arm's length when she stirred it, and how that old stove would roar and
                        get red in the face! Wouldn't have any light in the room except one candle and what
                        came through the cracks in the stove. I can remember just as well how she used to swing that pot
                        off of the stove and pour the hot mush into a bigI don't know what you call ita deep
                        dish with blue stripes around it. Then while the mush was cooling, she'd get a pitcher
                        of milkand it was milk, too."
                    "I'll bet it was," said the lightning dentist, warmly.
                    "Gentlemen, I have eaten famous dinners in my day. I've eaten
                        dinners at which the smallest course meant a dollar of some body's money, but do you
                        think I enjoyed them as I did that mush and milk at home? No, sir! and I didn't have to
                        go out and drink any Manhattan cocktails to get up an appetite either. I had my appetite
                        ready."
                    "And you had it with you," suggested the lush.
                    "I had it with me. I suppose that somewhere in this world there is mush and
                        milk just as good as mother prepared it, but I 
                        can't find it. But, as I say, gentlemen, maybe I'm to blame more than the mush
                        or milk is. Yon take any kind of stomach and let it go against bad hotels and queer restaurants
                        for a period of years and it may become a little discouraged.
                    "That settles it, Doc'," said the lush.
                        "You've converted me. I believe I'll order some mush and milk.
                    "Be careful," said the dentist; "it may poison
                        you."
                    "I believe it would. Well, I'll compromise by going into
                        Steve's and getting a milk punch."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XII
                    ONE OBJECTION TO MISS MILBURY
                    After the dentist had called at the Milbury flat three times and had taken Miss
                        Letitia Milbury to the theater once, he made a successful effort to have Doc' Home
                        invited to 
                            LETITIA.
                         dinner. The dentist was more fond of Miss Milbury every time they met. He was
                        supremely confident that Doc' would like her, for she was in the bloom of what he
                        judged to be twenty-two and had no shortcomings of any kind. In regard to size, she was neither
                        too large nor too small. He had described her to Doc' as "a plump
                        figure." It seemed to him that her hair was browncertainly it was combed in a most
                        bewitching fashion. She talked readily,  and
                        sympathized with him in all opinions he had ever expressed to her. She could play the piano and
                        sing.
                    Her mother had been mentioned to Doc' as a "fine old
                        girl." The dentist anticipated no difficulty in falling deeply in love with Miss
                        Letitia Milbury. Before doing so, he wished to keep his agreement with Doc' Home. But
                        he had no fears. He knew that his elderly friend would indorse the peerless creature. Could any
                        one help liking her?
                    If the dentist had been candid with himself he would have admitted that his true
                        reason for wishing to have Doc' invited to dinner was quite selfish. He wished to
                        exhibit Miss Milbury as a prospective possession. He believed that Doc' would be
                        surprised and impressed, perhaps made a trifle envious.
                    He secured the invitation for Doc' by the most shameless lobbying. He
                        repeatedly said to Miss Milbury: "I have a friend, Doc' Home, down at the
                        hotel, that I'm sure you and your mother would like to know."
                    When Miss Milbury invited the dentist to come to the flat for dinner he said, in
                        pursuance of his set policy: "Yes, indeed, I'll  come, and sometime or other, when I'm coming out here to dinner, or
                        any other time, I want to bring Doc' Home with me you know, my friend I've
                        spoken about so often."
                    Then Miss Milbury said, with exclamatory eagerness: "Why, bring him out this time!"
                    The dentist said that he couldn't possibly think of it, especially after he
                        had said what he had. It looked too much as ifbut some time or other he would bring Doc' out to the flat, knowing that both Miss Milbury
                        and her mother would like him, because he was a very superior gentleman.
                    "Why wait? asked Miss Milbury. "Bring him this time. That will make just four."
                    Thus overthrown by her persuasions, the dentist agreed to have Doc' at the
                        flat on the following Thursday evening.
                    Doc' was rather taken by surprise when told, in the most summary manner,
                        that he was to be and appear at the Milbury flat.
                    "My dear sir, are you attempting to bring me back to all that I forswore
                        many years ago? asked Doc', taking hold of the dentist's arm, which was a most
                        friend-like  manifestation for him. "Are you
                        going to start me to dining out again?"
                    "Oh, but this once, Doc', you must come," said the
                        dentist. "I've promised them."
                    "Well, if I do accept, it will be making an exception to the rule,"
                        he said. "Every day or two I meet on the street here some man I used to know in New
                        York, or Harris-burg, or Richmond, or some other place, and it's always the same
                        thing'Home, when can you come out and take dinner with me?' If I started in to
                        accept these invitations I'd be laid up with the gout in three months' time.
                        Besides, I stopped drinking champagne years ago, and if I went with these men it would be that
                        or nothing. So, for various reasons, I invariably beg off."
                    The dentist assured him that the Milburys would not urge him to drink champagne.
                    "Thursday eveningThursday evening let me see. No, I haven't any
                        conflicting engagements. You say there'll be only the four of us?"
                    "Only four, Doc', and I know you'll like them, because
                        they're fine people."
                    So it was settled that Doc' would go.
                    
                    Then, as luck would have it, he and the dentist had to run the gauntlet as they came
                        out of the hotel at six o'clock on Thursday evening, for the lush and the freckled boy
                        and a dozen weary transients were sitting outside the front door, and they stared with surprise
                        at the dentist's waistcoat, which was cream-colored, and his cravat, which was blue,
                        and his saddle-colored shoes, which had a coppery polish. As for Doc', his familiar
                        black suit had been thoroughly brushed, and the white lawn tie put a dash of the clerical into
                        his appearance.
                    "Look, look!" whispered the freckled boy, as the two approached,
                        and he nudged the lush. "Wouldn't that more'n jolt you?"
                    "Good evening, gentlemen," said Doc', with the least
                        inclination of the head. The dentist adjusted his cravat and looked straight ahead, trying to be
                        unconscious. He seemed to be in a hurry.
                    "Give the girls my regards," said the lush, as the two passed him.
                        "Um-m-m! Smell the perfumery. What is it, orange bitters?"
                    The dentist flushed, but made no response. He had betrayed his secret, however.
                    
                    From that moment until the day he left the hotel to be married, he was under
                        scrutiny.
                    It seemed to the dentist that Doc' was a bit restless and apprehensive for a
                        man who had known Richmond society before the war, had done a great deal of dancing in
                        Philadelphia, had been on the stage for three months at one time, had been challenged to fight
                        on account of a Memphis belle, and had fascinated a Brazilian senorita without one effort to be
                        more attractive than usual. Several times Doc' adjusted his cuffs and the white lawn
                        bow, wiped his palms with the handkerchief and asked, without seeming to remember that he had
                        asked the question before, "How long shall we remain after dinner?"; To which
                        the dentist replied that they would depart as soon as he (Doc') was ready to go, but
                        there probably would be no inclination to hurry away, as the Milburys were "fine
                        people."
                    The dentist made allowance for the fact that Doc' had been out of society
                        for several seasons, and was about to meet strangers. He felt sure that at the proper time, with
                        the encouragement given by Miss Milbury and her mother, Doc' would come to himself  and appeal to the women as being all that the
                        dentist had promised.
                    For the first five minutes at the flat Doc' sat speechless and mournful,
                        listening, with dull gaze, to the criticism of the play which the dentist and Miss Milbury had
                        attended. Once or twice he sighed secretively and acted as if he were about to turn and sit
                        sidewise in the chair, but on discovering that he was being watched, he changed his plans. The
                        dentist was worried. Miss Milbury had expected an immediate performance.
                    Doc's first effort at speech was in reference to a photograph on the mantel.
                        After looking at it for a full minute he doubtfully broke a lull in the talk and asked,
                        "Will you be kind enough to tell me, Miss Milbury, who the original of that photograph
                        isor was?"
                    "Oh, that? That's my uncle."
                    "Is the name Flanders?"
                    "NoMilbury."
                    "I thought at first it was my friend Flanders who used to have a studio in
                        Brooklyn."
                    "No, that's Uncle Jim. He has a nursery in Danville."
                    Doc' was not acquainted in Danville, so  he fell out of the conversation, which reverted to the subject of the drama,
                        and then Mrs. Milbury came in. She surprised 
                            MRS. MILBURY.
                         Doc', for she was largevery large. The dentist had told of her cordiality,
                        her goodness of heart, her ability to make one "feel at home" as soon as one
                        sat down beside her, but he had not prepared Doc' to meet a woman of such weight and
                        girth, and so he was unnerved at the moment of introduction and mumbled his line, which he had
                        rehearsed to himself as follows: "Madam, I am both charmed and delighted to make your
                        acquaintance."
                    At the table Doc' faced Mrs. Milbury, and the dentist sat opposite the
                        daughter. A frightened servant, whom Mrs. Milbury addressed as "Eliza,"
                        brought in the roast, the vegetables, the light biscuit, and the tea. During the meal the
                        conversation  back and forth revealed to
                        Doc' that Mrs. Milbury was a widow, that she had enough property to supply an income,
                        that she and Letitia had come to Chicago from a town of five thousand that Letitia might
                        "take music," and that they had found it rather lonesome in the city at first,
                        but lately they had been meeting some "lovely people."
                    "Including my young friend here," said Doc', with an
                        unfolding gesture of the right arm toward the dentist.
                    This was the first evidence that he was regaining his powers. Probably the tea had
                        something to do with it.
                    After they had returned to the front room and Mrs. Milbury had urged them to smoke,
                        and Doc' had found a comfortable chair, Miss Milbury sang "Oh, Promise
                        Me," with the dentist turning the music. Mrs. Mil-bury found a palm-leaf fan for
                        Doc' and told him that she always liked to see a man enjoying his evening cigar. Thus,
                        one cheering influence after another helped to make Doc' conversational.
                    Miss Milbury had been longing to go to a summer resort, and this led Doc' to
                        observe that he hoped to spend a few weeks at one of the northern lakes if he could  arrange his business affairs so as to get away from
                        town.
                    "Are you fond of boating, Doctor?" asked Mrs. Milbury.
                    "I am fond of all forms of outdoor sports, Mrs. Milbury, especially
                        swimming," he replied. "At one time I considered myself quite a swimmer, but I
                        haven't swum a long distance forlet me seeseventeen years ago this summer. Yes, it was
                        the year of the presidential election. I'll tell you, I had to let myself out that
                        time."
                    "On a bet?" asked the dentist.
                    "Oh, nono, sir, I wouldn't attempt anything of the kind merely for
                        a bet. No, I had to catch a train."
                    "Why, how strange!" exclaimed Miss Milbury.
                    "Wait until I tell you the circumstances and you'll understand.
                        Have you ever been to Lake Plankinac? Beautiful place! I used to go up there to rest and ride
                        around in the boats for a few days at a time. As I told you, this was seventeen years ago. I
                        remember, because I had been doing some confidential work during the presidential campaign. I
                        was at Plankinac and had been there three days, and this happened  on the afternoon when I was to start home. The lake was about four miles long
                        and two miles wide. The hotel where I stopped was toward the north end of the lake. There was a
                        railroad station there and another 
                            "I HAD A NICE, LIGHT CEDAR BOAT."
                         station at the south end of the lake, three miles away. I was to take a five
                        o'clock train for Milwaukee, where I was to meet a certain gentleman and have a most
                        important interview with him. It was absolutely necessary that I should catch this train.
                    
                    "About an hour before train-time I went out to take a final row. I jumped
                        into the boat and pulled away toward the south end of the lake. That was my usual ridedown to
                        the south end of the lake and back. Well, I had a nice, light cedar boat and I was making fair
                        speedI suppose a mile in eight minutes or so, when all at once I went crash! into a piling that
                        had been sunk in a sandbar. The fishermen used to tie to this piling and then drift away so as
                        to fish just off the bar. The piling stood just above the water, and I tore a hole in that cedar
                        boat that you could have put your foot through.
                    "I got the boat lifted and pulled it off, and of course the water poured in
                        so that there was no hope of keeping afloat. I jumped back into the stern, pulled off my shoes
                        and swung them around my neck, tied together, and lowered myself into the water. The boat was
                        completely water-logged, and I knew I couldn't use the oars, but I thought I could swim
                        along behind the boat and push it back to the hotel. I tried it, but it was slow work, because a
                        live breeze had sprung up from the north and the waves were rolling against me. I saw that it
                             would take me an hour or more to get back to the
                        hotel working that way, and I remembered all at once that I had to catch the five
                        o'clock train. I was at least a mile from shore, considerably over two miles from the
                        hotel, and a good long mile from the railway station at the south end of the lake. I saw that if
                        I expected to reach the shore at all in time to catch the train I would have to make for the
                        south end. I let the boat swing around and started to swim behind it, pushing it with the wind.
                        I made better headway, but it was pretty mean work, because the boat was half-full of water, and
                        just as heavy as a drag. I knew that the hotel people would recover the boat all right, so I
                        simply let it go, and I started for the shore alone. I figured that I had no time to waste if I
                        wanted to catch that train, so I swam with my long overhand sailor strokeI've always
                        found that I can make better speed that way. The wind kept getting higher, and for the last half
                        mile or so I was riding in the white caps. I want to tell you, ladies, that even in a little
                        lake, four miles long, you can get up a pretty good sea if you get the wind to coming right. I
                        didn't mind the waves, however,  because
                        they sort of helped me along. When I was about a hundred yards from the shore I heard the engine
                        whistle for the station at the north of the lake. I was somewhat exhausted by that time,
                        naturally enough. I had often swum longer distances than that, but never before had I attempted
                        to keep up such a speed. I could see the train coming along through the woods, and I made a
                        final spurt."
                    "Did you ever!" observed Mrs. Milbury, with an upward roll of the
                        eyes.
                    "Just as I came out on the bank the train stopped at the station, and I had
                        to make a run. I swung on the platform as the wheels began to turn. I got on the train on the
                        side opposite the station, and, for that reason, the people on the platform didn't see
                        me.
                    "I sat out on the front end of the car until the conductor came along, and
                        then explained my predicament to him. Luckily he recognized meI had been over the road two or
                        three times with a party of gentlemen in a private carand he put the baggage car at my disposal
                        so I could dry my clothes.
                    "It was late in the evening when I arrived in Milwaukee. I took a carriage
                        up to my  hotel, and when I walked in, the clerk gave
                        a yell and threw up both hands. You see, the hotel people up at Plankinac had found the boat,
                        and they supposed, of course, that I had been drowned, so they had telegraphed the news to
                        Milwaukee and from Milwaukee it had been sent all over the 
                            THE OVERHAND STROKE.
                         country by the Associated Press. I hurried around to the newspaper offices to deny the
                        rumor. At one place they had an obituary notice about two columns long already set up. The
                        funniest part of it all was what the people up at Plankinac said. They declared that no man
                        could have swum ashore in such rough water, but the conductor told his story and they had to
                        give in."
                    "Well, I think it's perfectly wonderful that you had the courage to
                        strike out from that boat and swim such a long distance," said Miss Milbury.
                    "I wanted to catch that train, and I caught it," said
                        Doc'.
                    
                    Both the women were so interested in this feat of swimming that Doc' had to
                        tell them of a high dive into the Cumberland River, a Miss Durbin, of Tallahassee, distantly
                        related to Gen. Wade Hampton, of Louisiana, and other stories.
                    While the good-nights were being said, Doc' promised to call again. Miss
                        Letitia Milbury had whispered that Doc' was "excedingly interesting,"
                        and the dentist was happy.
                    The ensuing conversation passed after Doc' and the dentist had boarded the
                        car.
                    "Well, Doc', she's a darned fine girl, ain't
                        she?" asked the dentist.
                    "Remarkableremarkable."
                    "Good looking, don't you think so?"
                    "Very-very."
                    "It strikes me, too, that she has a good even temper."
                    "I saw or heard nothing to induce me to believe otherwise."
                    "And a lot of common sense. That's what so few of them have now,
                        Doc's, is common sense."
                    "I dare say. The mother seems to be a very superior Person also."
                    
                    "Yes, but she's so big! Gee! but she's fat.
                    "You do not like large women?"
                    "Well, I don't positively dislike any women because she happens to
                        be rather stout, but I don't believe I could love a very fat as Mrs. Milbury
                        is."
                    "'I'm very sorry to hear you say that."
                    "Sorry? Why so?"
                    "Because, my dear sir, the daughter, in ten or fifteen years from now, will
                        be fully as large as the mother is at present."
                    "Good heavens! Whyhow do you know?"
                    "I argue from the well-known laws of heredity. Those two women are just
                        alike both in temperament and physical characterstics. You can see that by merely looking at
                        them."
                    "Oh, I don't know. There is a certain family resemblance, to be
                        sure, butno, I can't see it."
                    "Naturally there is not a close resemblance, because one is twenty-two and
                        the other is probably forty-five, but what the daughter is now, the mother was twenty  years ago. I know that, because I looked through the
                        album while you and Miss Milbury were at the piano, and there was a picture of the mother taken
                        years ago, and it might pass for a photograph of the daughter to-day, only the mother slimmer
                        than the daughter is at the present time."
                    "It's a fact. I hope I'm not meddlesome in saying what I
                        have, but it's only right that you should know it. The young lady is charming and, just
                        at present, decidedly attractive, but you may take my word for it, in the course of a very few
                        years she will be stoutquite stoutpossibly as large as her mother."
                    "That settles it," said the dentist, in a voice which sounded
                        strangely hollow.
                    "I have observed hundreds of cases," added Doc'.
                    The dentist could not trust himself to speak. He alighted from the car and walked as
                        if all hope were dead.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIII
                    WAS IT ERIDGEMAN?
                    On the night after the visit to the Milbury flat the dentist was in hiding.
                        Doc' Home was sitting in front of the hotel with the lush and a large, side-whiskered
                        man, lately arrived at the Alfalfa and known to be a book-agent. These three were enjoying one
                        of the first balmy evenings of the delayed summer.
                    Doc' had been leaning back, dreamily blowing rings of smoke, and the
                        book-agent had been attempting to recite a portion of "Thanatopsis" to the
                        lush, who claimed he had never heard of William Cullen Bryant.
                    Suddenly Doc' straightened up in his chair and looked most intently at a
                        passing man who carried a walking-stick and seemed to be in a hurry.
                    "Well, I'll declare!" he exclaimed.
                    "What's the matter, Doc'?" asked the lush.
                    Doc' continued to gaze at the pedestrian until he turned the corner.
                    
                    "That's most extraordinary," he said; "I could
                        have sworn that was Bridgeman."
                    "Who's Bridgeman?" asked the book-agent.
                    "Bridgeman was a friend of mine. I say was because I suppose he's dead, but I assure you,
                        gentlemen, that the man who walked by here was 
                            "WELL I'LL DECLEARE!"
                         so much like Bridgeman that I felt sure for a moment it was he."
                    "Don't you know whether your friend is dead or alive?"
                        asked the book-agent.
                    "He disappeared that's all we knew about it."
                    "Ran away?"
                    "Well, the whole affair was a mystery. I always believed in Bridgeman, and
                        the sheriff always maintained that he was loyal to us, but there were others who claimed that he
                        sold us out."
                    "What was itpolitics?"
                    "No, indeed; something a great deal more serious than that. We were after a
                        gang of  counterfeiters. Let' seethat was
                        thirty years ago this summer. The way I came to be drawn into it was that Jim Martin, who was
                        United States marshal, wrote me to join him in a small town down in Kentucky. He said he thought
                        he could promise some excitement. I went down there, not knowing what was up. After I arrived I
                        found that Jim had located a gang of counterfeiters and wanted to get a few cool and nervy men
                        to help him make the arrests. We had been out on several little excursions together, and Jim
                        knew me pretty well. He said that as soon as he found where the gang made its headquarters he
                        would send for me, because he knew I didn't want to miss any fun.
                    Doc' stopped to relight his cigar, and then he resumed: "When I got
                        down to this little station I found Jim and a deputy named Hayes and the sheriff of that country
                        and Bridgeman. That made five of us in all, and Jim said he would as soon have the five as
                        twenty ordinary me. It happened that when I got there the counterfeiters had cleared out. It was
                        supposed that they made occasional trips to the cities to dispose of their goods. We waited
                        around there a  week before they came back. You see,
                        we were supposed to be a hunting party from Cincinnati, and the house at which we stopped was at
                        least five or six miles from the cabin where the counterfeiters worked, so that we felt
                        satisfied they hadn't taken alarm. Bridgeman was detailed to watch the cabin and report
                        if the gang came back. I saw him every day for a week or more, and came to have a high regard
                        for his courage and shrewdness."
                    
                        HE RESEMBLED BRIDGEMAN.
                    
                    Doc' paused and said:"That man who passed here was wonderfully like
                        Bridgeman."
                    "Would you know him after such a long time?" asked the book-agent.
                    "I never forget a face," and replied Doc'.
                    "Well, what happened to Bridgeman?" asked the lush.
                        "That's what I want to know."
                    "That's what I was about to tell you. On  the eighth day, I think it was, Bridgeman reported that all four
                        members of the gang had returned to the cabin. Jim determined to make a raid on the place that
                        night. The cabin was in a deep ravine that ran down toward a creek, and it was necessary to go
                        through heavy brush and up and down hills to get to it, unless you knew the winding path.
                        Bridgeman knew the country, and that's why he had been put to do the spying.
                    "We set out about dark and rode, one at a time, to a point that had been
                        agreed upon, a clump of timber at a cross-roads. Then it was decided to send Bridgeman ahead to
                        make sure for the last time that the men were at the cabin. He was to ride to the end of the
                        roads and tie his horse and then slip through the brush and see that everything was clear. Then
                        he was to come back and notify us and we were to follow him single file through the brush, and
                        surround the cabin before the inmates were alarmed. You see, we didn't want to descend
                        on the cabin in force if there was no one there but the woman. We wanted to nab the whole
                        crowd."
                    "Naturally," assented the book-agent.
                    "Well, we sent Bridgeman ahead and then  we followed slowly after. It was getting late and the night was dark and
                        cloudy. I was in a new country, but Jim and the sheriff had been over the ground once or twice
                        before. I suppose we were about a quarter of a mile away from the cabin when we heard two shots.
                        I said to Jim: 'Come 
                            "IT WAS GETTING LATE."
                         on; we're needed,' and we put the spurs to the horses and dashed
                        down the road. I was the first one to reach the end of the road where the path started. Instead
                        of jumping off my horse I simply guided him to the opening in the brush and followed the winding
                        path as far as I could. Then I  jumped off and ran on
                        foot. When I came to the little clearing where the cabin was I made a run for the door, kicked
                        it open and went into the house. Jim said afterward that it was the most foolhardy act that he
                        had ever heard of. Well, the house was empty. I went to the door and called to the boys, who
                        were tumbling down through the brush, and they came running up. There wasn't a soul
                        around the place. We lighted a candle and found some of the broken dies and a few cooking
                        utensils, but the counterfeiters had escaped and taken everything of value with them. Then we
                        began to wonder what had become of Bridgeman. We shouted his name and we scoured the woods for
                        him, but he couldn't be found anywhere."
                    "And he was never found?" asked the book-agent.
                    "Well, there's a question as to that. One man claimed that he
                        afterward met him, face to face, in Louisville, and it was supposed that his sister received
                        letters from him. This much is certain, though. He was never seen in that part of the country
                        again, and most of the people believed that he had been killed by the counterfeiters and  his body buried in some lonely place or else sunk in
                        the creek. His horse returned home next day."
                    "And you say some people didn't believe he was dead?"
                    "Some people claimed that he sold out to the counterfeiters and gave them
                        warning of an attack or else they couldn't have moved out in such a hurry. It was
                        claimed that the gang had already cleared out before we started out that night. Bridgeman fired
                        a couple of shots himself so as to make is believe that he had been in a fight and then he rode
                        off with the gang, leaving us to scour around the cabin while he and the others were making time
                        across the country. That, as I say, was the theory and there are some facts to support it, but I
                        always believed in Bridgeman. You can imagine my surprise at seeing this man walk past to-night.
                        It was a wonderful resemblance, making the usual allowance for the changes of thirty
                        years."
                    "Why didn't you speak to him?" asked the lush.
                    "Well, if it really was Bridgeman, it simply proves that he betrayed us that
                        night and escaped with the counterfeiters. Of 
                        course, if he did that, I wouldn't shake hands With him any more than I'd take
                        hold of a snake. Bridgeman either turned traitor or else he was killed."
                    "If he was killed this can't be the man," suggested the
                        lush.
                    "Evidently not."
                    "And if he wasn't killed, you don't want anything to do
                        with him," ventured the book-agent.
                    "Come to think of it, I don't believe it was Bridgernan,"
                        said Doc'. "Bridgeman was taller than this fellow."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIV
                    DOC' IN WAR TIME
                    On the way from the restaurant to the hotel, the dentist walked beside Doc'
                        and told his troubles.
                    "I don't know what to do, Doc'," he said.
                        "I got a note from Miss Milbury to-day, and she wants me to call this
                        evening."
                    "Well, why not call?"
                    "Because I don't want to go ahead and act as ifto tell the truth,
                        after what you told me the other night, I think it would be better to call the whole thing
                        off."
                    "My dear young friend! You may call on a young lady with propriety, even if
                        you have no matrimonial intentions. I have called on hundreds of womentaken them to parties,
                        picnics, theaters, receptions and so on, and yet I have managed to remain a bachelor."
                    "Yes, but you're different. You can control yourself. I
                        can't. From the minute I met her, Doc', I thought there was more  than a possibility of it turning out all
                        right."
                    "So it may! If you prefer this young lady to any other you have met, go
                        ahead! It is true that she will become stouter as she grows older, but the accretion will be
                        gradual and probably you wouldn't notice-"
                    
                        "I HAVE MANAGED TO REMAIN A BACHELOR."
                    
                    "I would notice it."
                    
                    "I'm rather curry now that I told you what I did, but I thought it
                        was my duty."
                    "It broke me all up, Doc', but I don't blame you.
                        I'll go out there to-night, but I hate to do it. I'll keep thinking of what
                        you told me."
                    He went into the hotel to prepare for his call, and Doc' joined the evening
                        group on the sidewalk. There had been changes in the company. Both the actor and the race-track
                        man had left the Alfalfa, one to join a summer company playing under a tent, and the other to
                        try his fortunes at a Cincinnati track. Among the new-comers were two who pleased Doc'.
                        One was the book-agent, already mentioned, and the second was a youth employed as a salesman in
                        a bicycle store.
                    The book-agent was a person to command respect. He was large, and he had whiskers,
                        and it is known that litany a politician has gone to congress and many a doctor has built up a
                        country practice with no other qualifications than these two. The book-agent wore a somewhat
                        faded Prince Albert coat, which supported his assumption of learning and professional dignity.
                    The stringy side-whiskers were lightly 
                        streaked with gray, and the growing baldness was only half-concealed by a long wisp of hair
                        which was brought up from the side and spread across the bare patch. The book-agent spoke rather
                        slowly, biting off this words with the precision of a hardened school teacher. During the first
                        hour with him one would be led to believe that he had spent his life among the poets. His
                        conversation was literally stuffed with gems of verse. After a second or third meeting with him
                        it became apparent that he repeated himself, calling up the same quotation twice or thrice in
                        the same week. The lush, who was an observant person during his lucid intervals, concluded,
                        after three weeks, that the book-agent had a limited repertoire of verses and couplets which he
                        had learned from book prospectuses. This conclusion was borne out by a study of the
                        agent's outfit which he carried with him. He had a prospectus of the "Sweet
                        Singers of All Time," giving sample pages and illustrations, and the lush found, on
                        looking through it one day, that all the stray bits of poetry which the learned book-agent
                        casually called to mind were in this condensed volume.
                    
                    Any one who has been importuned by a. book-agent will remember the set speech, the
                        eulogium on the calf binding, and the reading of chance passages as the leaves are turned. By
                        repetition the book-agent had memorized the poetry, and he used it constantly to embellish his
                        conversation.
                    Therefore, at a first meeting the book-agent made a profound impression. A Johnsonian
                        figure of a man, who enriched his talk with extracts from the poets of all ageshe rather awed
                        Doc'.
                    Besides, he was so conscious of his own learning. He smiled indulgently on the
                        bicycle salesman, even as he quoted Shakespeare, and all his intercourse was marked by a calm
                        and thoughtful politeness. He had the habit of patting and rubbing himself in front as if to
                        quiet the seething emotions of his soul.
                    The bicycle salesman was a gaunt young man with a surplus of hair, which seemed to be
                        especially luxuriant on the back of his head. He wore a cap at least a size too small, so that
                        the effect of the hair-burst just below the cap was something fantastic and yet greatly to be
                        desired by those who ride the wheel.
                    
                    His head appeared to be peculiarly elongated because of the mat of hair behind.
                    Doc' soon perceived that the bicycle youth was an excellent listener of
                        responsive temperament, and he rather liked him.
                    Lush and the freckled boy were in a dispute as Doc' seated himself. It was a
                        pleasant summer evening. The book-agent had his vest widely unbuttoned and was gazing with
                        surprise and reproach at the two disputants.
                    Doc' sat and listened for several moments before he could determine the
                        subject tinder debate. This is what it proved to be:
                    Which was the greater general, Grant or Lee?
                    No one can ever tell how these hotel controversies begin, and no one ever saw one of
                        them arrive at any conclusion.
                    The lush was defending the military reputation of Grant. Not that he knew very much
                        about Grant or had any decided opinion as to his military genius, but because the freckled boy
                        had said something in favor of Lee.
                    "If Lee had only had as many soldiers as Grant had there wouldn't
                        have been a thing to it," said the freckled boy. "He'd
                        'a'  give Grant a horrible finish.
                        Don't tell me no different."
                    "What was your regiment?" asked the lush.
                    "Well, I come about as near fightin' as you did."
                    "I'll tell you just how much you know about Lee. You saw his
                        picture on a cigar box somewhere. What's his first name?"
                    "Robert E. Lee."
                    "That's right! That's the name of the cigarthe Robert E.
                        Lee cigar. I knew that's where you got the name."
                    "I s'pose I don't know nothin' about the siege of
                        Richmond?"
                    "Who won out there?"
                    "Why shouldn't he win out when he had four times as many
                        soldiers?"
                    "Who's thatLee?"
                    "No, it wasn't Lee."
                    "Well, who was it came out ahead?"
                    "Well, I s'pose every one knows that Grant finally captured
                        Richmond."
                    "That doesn't prove anything, though, does it? I guess that was an
                        accident. Things just happened to come his way. He didn't know a thing."
                    "But he had the soldiers."
                    
                    "Well, that's where he was smooth. Why didn't Lee get some
                        soldiers and have them there?"
                    "He couldn't get them."
                    "Well, I don't think much of a general who can't get
                        soldiers when he needs them. That's part of the businesshaving your men
                        there."
                    "What do the books say?"
                    "What books?"
                    "W'y, the histories. They say it was great the way Lee stood off
                        Grant. It was a toss-up there for a while, and if anything Lee had a shade the best of
                        it."
                    "But Lee finally surrendered."
                    "YesI s'pose so."
                    "And that proves that Grant was a poor general, does it?"
                    "Here! would you expect a welter-weight to lick a man that weighed
                        one-seventy?"
                    "I'm talking about generalsnot prizefighters. "
                    "I'll leave it to Doc'," said the freckled boy.
                    "Really, gentlemen, I don't care to express a preference,"
                        said Doc', with a bland smile. "Each was a military genius in his way. I met
                        both of themGeneral
                    
                    Lee before the war and General Grant during the campaign of 1868. I admire them, not
                        only as soldiers, but as American gentlemen, and feel that it would hardly be proper to enter
                        into any dispute as to their relative merits."
                    The book-agent sighed and repeated, softly:
                    "The union of lakes, the union of lands,
                    The union of states none can sever;
                    The union of hearts, the union of hands,
                    And the flag of our union forever!"
                    "Just the same, Lee was a great general," said the freckled boy.
                    "Did you enter the service when grimvisaged war reared its awful
                        front?" asked the book-agent, looking at Doc'.
                    "Not as a soldierno. That is, not as an ordinary soldier. Was I in the
                        service? Yes, and no. I was often at the front, and I had a certain connection with the war
                        department, but I was not a soldier in the common acceptance of the term. I held a position of a
                        quasi-military character, you might say. My exact standing with the secretary of war and the
                        importance of my errands on several occasions were known to but few people. I did not figure as
                        a representative  of the government, and I doubt if
                        you will find my name mentioned anywhere in the records. It may be in there, but I doubt it.
                        Stanton was always very careful about those things."
                    "Stanton?" asked the bicycle youth.
                    "Edwin M. Stantonsecretary of war," explained the book-agent.
                    "A certain official said to me once: ' Home, I want you to go and
                        arrange this matter for me, and I don't want any one to ever know anything about it,
                        outside of we three.' The third person to whom he referred was a generala western
                        man."
                    "Well, did you arrange it?" asked the bicycle salesman.
                    "If I were at liberty to tell you the name of the general, you'd
                        know how well I arranged it. My visit to the general marked the turning-point of one of the most
                        important campaigns of the war. The department wanted to give this general some advice which was
                        not to be a matter of record. If you've ever had anything to do with the government
                        service, you know quite well that some messages are too important and confidential to be
                        submitted to writing. After I had concluded my business, this  generaland you'd know his name in a minute if I mentioned itthis
                        general said to me: 'Horne, what's your private opinion of this whole
                        business?' He wanted it, and I gave it to him. I agreed with Stanton on the main
                        proposition, but I had my own1' opinion as to how the thing ought to be put into
                        effect. We sat up for two or three hours talking it over, and I could see that he was impressed
                        by my suggestions, although he didn't say very much. Well, sir, I started back to
                        Washington, under the cover of darkness, but from that day the details of the campaign were
                        along the lines which I had laid down in our private conference. I don't say it
                        boastingly, gentlemen, but merely to prove what I have said time and again, that very often a
                        general is credited with some coup, the inspiration for which is provided by a man behind the
                        scenessome one who never figures in history."
                    "What excuse could you give for running around the country and following up
                        the armies?" asked the bicycle salesman.
                    "I was ostensibly a commercial traveler trying to sell goods to sutlers and
                        other dealers near the large camps. That gave me a good excuse for visiting the front at  any time. Nearly all the people who met me supposed
                        I was a traveling salesman and nothing more. If you were to meet one of the subordinate officers
                        whom I knew about that time and ask him, 'Was Cal Home connected with the war
                        department?' he'd say, 'No; Home was the fellow who used to come
                        around with supplies for the sutlers.' I wasn't telling my business to every
                        Tom, Dick and Harry.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XV
                    "WOMAN," BY THE FRECKLED BOY
                    Miss Letitia Milbury and her mother went into the country for a month, and the
                        dentist said that all was 
                            AT THE CONCERT GARDEN.
                         for the best. He was sorry that he had met Miss Milbury and more sorry still that he
                        had taken Doc' Home to call on her. More than once he wondered if it could be true that
                        Miss Milbury would be as large as her mother. It seemed to him that he could recall having met
                        many slim women each of whom had a stout mother. He wondered if Mr. Milbury had been a heavy  man. And more than once he wondered if
                        Doc's confident theory as to hereditary stoutness could be accepted. This was a
                        mournful period for the dentist. Since Miss Milbury was not for him, he was glad that she had
                        gone from the city.
                    The first sign of his recovery came at about the time of the time of his meeting with
                        Miss Laure Tupham at a concert garden on the north side.
                    '' I went out to a German garden last night with a friend of mine
                        in the leather business, and we ran into a lot of his friends," he reported to
                        Doc'. "I met one girl that was fine. Her name is Tuphamlaura Tupham."
                    "My mother had some distant relatives by the name of Tiapham," said
                        Doc'. "One of the Tuphams is said to have given Cornelius Vanderbilt his start
                        in life."
                    "I don't know where this girl comes from, but she's all
                        right. She's going to be out at the garden again next week, and I've promised
                        to be there. By the way, her mother was with her. She's a mighty well-preserved woman,
                        Doc'. You wouldn't take her to be more than ten years older than this
                        girl."
                    
                    Doc' turned and looked at him, rather puzzled.
                    "I'm afraid you are attaching too much importance to our
                        conversation the other evening," he said.
                    "Oh, no, I understand," with a forced smile. "It
                        isn't true in all cases. But I just thought I'd tell you."
                    The lush came out and joined them, so they were silent.
                    "Such a fine piece of scandal," said the lush. "You
                        wouldn't guess it in a thousand years. You know the book-agent? Well, he's a
                        divorced man."
                    "Divorced! Is that so?" asked the dentist. It seemed to him at that
                        moment that the whole world was in a conspiracy to block his purpose and frighten him away from
                        matrimony.
                    "Yes, I believe she got her papers since he came here to live. He's
                        been worried a good deal for fear it would get into the papers, but it seems to be all
                        right."
                    "Did he tell you about it?" asked Doc'.
                    "Yes; you know, he's inclined to be pious, and he cornered me
                        yesterday and gave me a little argument on the liquor proposition. I told him I had to drink now
                        and then to  drown my sorrows, and then he tried to
                        convince me that he had had more trouble than I ever dreamed of, and still got through it
                        without taking a drink."
                    "Who's that?" demanded the freckled boy, who had come up
                        unobserved, as usual.
                    Doc' frowned in annoyance.
                    "The book-agent," replied the lush. "After he started in
                        he gave me the whole story. It seems that he married her two years ago, for her money. He
                        didn't say so, but he showed me her picture, and then I knew. Our friend with the
                        whiskers was number three. He met her at a meeting of the Society for the Umptification of
                        Something or-other and thought it was a good thing, so he grabbed it. He went out to her house
                        to live, and from the hard-luck story he told me, why, his life must have been one long picnic.
                        She's a vegetarian, and wouldn't let him eat meat. Then she made him wear a
                        kind of health underwear that gave him the hives. He says that she made him sit up all one night
                        and rub her back with liniment, and no matter where he rubbed she'd say it
                        wasn't the right place. You ought to have heard him. Why, he  nearly cried when he told me about it. I figured that she married him
                        so as to have something to experiment on. She was nearly everythinga spiritualist, a vegetarian,
                        a suffragist, a faith cure, a health underwear, theosophist,"
                    "What's that?" asked the freckled boy.
                    "She thinks this isn't her first time on earth," said the
                        lush.
                    "Rats!"
                    "From what he told me, I'd just as soon be married to a Bengal
                        tiger. Darned if I didn't feel sorry for him. He said that at the time he left her
                        place he got some of her handkerchiefs into his grip by mistake, and she had him arrested for
                        stealing. What do you think of that?"
                    "A man's a chump for gettin' married," said the
                        freckled boy, gravely.
                    "When she applied for her divorce she charged him with cruelty, desertion,
                        harsh and abusive language, and failure to provide. He was telling me that he was absolutely
                        innocent, and that he didn't leave her house until she made it so hot for him that he
                        couldn't stand it another day."
                    "Is she a good-looker?" asked the freckled boy.
                    
                    "She's a sight. I'd like to know why in the world he ever
                        married her."
                    "I s'pose the book graft was slow," said the freckled boy.
                        "She's got some coin, ain't she?"
                    "She's got money now that she had before the war. He says that he
                        nearly starved to death while he was living with her. Vegetarian, you know. Oatmeal and prunes
                        for breakfast, brown bread and potatoes for dinner. You ought to get him to tell you about
                        it.''
                    "Do you know what I'd do if I had that kind of a wife?"
                        asked the freckled boy. "I don't believe in bein' rough with a lady
                        as long as she is one, but if she'd ever try any o' that funny work with me,
                        I'd call her down if I had to swing on her."
                    "Oh, well, 1 don't know," remarked the lush. "It
                        isn't a very proper thing to do to slug a perfect lady. I'd simply go ahead
                        and run the house in my own way and pay no attention to anything she said. You see, after a
                        woman talks herself black in the face without getting an argument, she has to stop."
                    "It's too bad that our friend did not confer with you gentlemen
                        before he left his  wife," said
                        Doc', with a half-restrained smile. "You know how to manage women and could
                        have given him to some valuable advice."
                    "Well, I've never been married, but I've always known one
                        thing," said the dentist. "A man has got to assert his independence in his own
                        house. If he lets his wife think she can order him around and treat him like a schoolboy, he
                        might as well give up all hope of having any liberty of his own. I don't say that a man
                        ought to be harsh with a woman, but he ought to give her to understand that he can come and go
                        once in a while without asking her permission."
                    "That's right," said the lush. "If this
                        book-agent friend of ours had gone out and got drunk the night he married the old girl, and then
                        come and chased her around the house with a hatchet, she'd have had some respect for
                        him. I knew a man once who chased his wife with a hatchet at least once a month. He loved her
                        all right, and wouldn't have harmed her for anything in the world, but he claimed that
                        he had to make this hatchet demonstration at least once a month in order to maintain his rights.
                        After every outbreak she'd be pleasant and 
                        attentive for several weeks. Then her respect for his rights would begin to weaken, and he would
                        have to get out his hatchet again."
                    In concluding he winked at the dentist.
                    "Seriously speaking, I don't believe a woman has much regard for a
                        man who allows himself to be tied to her apron strings," said the dentist.
                    "W'y, of course not!" exclaimed the freckled boy, with an
                        indifferent gesture, to show that he was an expert. "I'll win out a girl in
                        ten minutes where one o' them easy, polite guys wouldn't make a
                        showin' in an hour. You've got to be a little rough with 'em if you
                        want to get along. Chop all this business of writin' notes an'
                        promisin' to be good. Promise nothin'! You head the combination yourself,
                        understand? If you don't, you'll be runnin' errands for her,
                        an' some other geezer won't do a thing but pull the handle an' let
                        you through the chute. That's right. The minute one of 'em thinks
                        she's got you dead, that spoils her. You've got to ring 'er up every
                        twenty minutes an' square yourself. But when you keep 'er guessin',
                        then she does the ringin' up.
                    
                    "I've got a brother that don't know a thing about them
                        fairies. He won't stand for none o' this lady-friend business. When one of
                        'em gives him the saucy eye an' begins to pick things off o' his
                        coat, he up and barks at her an' scares her to death.
                    "There's none of 'em can cut saucy capers with that boy.
                        He has his way or the lights go outthat's all there is to it. When he cops out a
                        shirt-waist and puts it on a trolley car he says: 'Now you're with me,
                        an' not me with you. Start nothin', and if any argument comes up, you out of
                        the way!' That's right, too; make 'em know their place.
                    "An' don't let 'em kid you. If one
                        of.'em gets to thinkin' she's a kidder, that swells her all out
                        o' shape, an' it takes many a jolt to make her behave. I was up at a dance one
                        night an' I met a tall party that thought she was old stringer No. 1. She had a lot
                        o' moldy ones left over from last year's
                        ten-twent'-and-thirt', an' she kept shootin' 'em in
                        there an' gettin' purled up till her cloze didn't fit her. If
                        there's anything makes me sore it's to have one o' them laundry
                        queens try to sew buttons on me. Purty soon I says: 'Gertie, you're lively
                        company  an' a very neat josher, but you
                        don't last, so I think I'll have to put a tag on you. I don't want
                        you to get mad at nothin' I say to you, becuz I can see that you belong with the best,
                        an' besides we're all good fellows here together. At the same time, Gertie, I
                        must say that before you try to pump the hot air you ought to oil up. Now, I'll tell
                        you what I'm goin' to do with you. You're gettin' too swift
                        an' reckless an' you may run somethin' down, so I'm
                        goin' to send you out to a blacksmith shop an' have a fender put on
                        you.' She come back with the best she had, an' when she got through, I says:
                        'If you've finished, Gertie, you might as well blow. There ain't
                        nothin' doin' for you over in this corner. An' never come to one
                        o' these dances till you get a dress that fits you. You're a sight!'
                    "Well, say, she was wild. This was a new game for her. She'd had a
                        lot o' them cigarette children over in the corner, makin' goo-goo eyes at
                        'em an' talkin' 'em to a standstill, an' just about
                        the time when she thought she was good enough to travel in any class she bumped into me
                        an' got a crimp that'll last her for many's the day.
                    "But here's what I started out to tell you:
                    
                    After I'd roasted her do you think she quit me an' went back to
                        little Horace with the hair and Ernest with the red necktie? I should sa-a-y not! She followed
                        me across the floor, an' just as I was moppin' in a scuttle o' beer
                        about a foot high I feel somebody give me a punch in the back, an' when I turns around
                        here's the tall party. She says, 'I think you're just as mean as you
                        can be!' oh, fine an' sassy! 'Don't follow me,' I
                        says. 'I'm tired o' lookin' at you. I've got a
                        swell dame here from the south side, an' if she ever sees me talkin' to you I
                        won't get another piece o' jewelry in six months. Now duck! Go back to them
                        chewin'-gum Willies. You can make good with them, but you don't stand
                        one-two-seventeen with me. I don't like your shape, for one thing. You're
                        gettin' round-shouldered. What you been doin' all your lifeleanin'
                        over a fence?'
                    "Oh, say, I toasted her shameful, but that's what she needed.
                        An' the rougher I shot it into her the closer she stuck to me. She was mad, all right,
                        but she didn't want to quit. I'd see her standin' over
                        talkin' to some guy, an' the minute she'd see me, that'd
                        rattle her. Then I'd give her the  quiet
                        laugh an' over she'd come. She'd say: 'I never met any
                        gentleman before that said such awful things to me as you said right here to-night.'
                        'I'll tell you, Gert,' I says, takin' hold of her mitt,
                        'that's becuz 
                            "A SHIRT-WAIST."
                         you never meta true friend before.' Then she wouldn't know what to
                        think. I had her in the air, sure enough. Just about the time when she'd think I was
                        weakenin' an' was gain' to take it all back an' tell her she
                        was a nice girl, I'd say: 'Well, run along now. I've got to go
                        an' meet friend.' Then she'd be sore againoh, crazy! Never would
                        speak to the old rowdy thing again-never! But just the same I knew I couldn't lose her.
                    "On the square, I got ashamed o' my self after while. The girl was
                        all right, mind you, only she was just newthat's all.
                    
                    Before I got through with her, though, I made a good fellow out of her. I made her
                        quit. That's what I done. I had her clinchin' an' beggin' me
                        to stop, and she was the tamest thing you ever see. She didn't have one funny crack
                        left. I certainly put her out o' the stringin' business. Then I says to her:
                        'You ain't mad, are you, Gert'? She was so Leary by that time she
                        didn't know what to say. With that I jollied her a little an' says to her:
                        'As soon as you've been around some more you'll know how to take a
                        joke.' Then I danced with her a couple o' times an bought her
                        somethin' to cat, an', say, she couldn't see nobody else. Now,
                        there's a girl I may meet a thousand times, an' it's like
                        gettin' money from home that she won't never try to kid me again. I should say
                        not. You've got to have 'em a little afraid of youthere ain't no use
                        talkin'. If you want 'em to behave you've got to be a little rough
                        now an' then."
                    "Gentlemen, gentlemen, gentlemen!" said Doc', nodding his
                        head slowly. "Are we at the end of the nineteenth century or do we still live in caves
                        and holes in the ground? Have we become civilized or do  we still rule by fear? Is it possible that any one in the semblance of a
                        human being still holds to the monstrous belief that the creature put upon earth to be
                        man's companion and helpmate is deserving only of his brutal persecutions? I
                        wouldn't have believed it, but I have sat here and listened listened with shame, I must
                        confess. I thought we had got further away from savagery. The aborigines held the very theory
                        which is advocated so eloquently by my young friend here. I only hope that he will live to blush
                        for his words. Good night, gentlemen!"
                    "What's the matter with him?" asked the freckled boy, as
                        Doc' entered the hotel. "Did somebody say somethin'? He seems to be
                        sore."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVI
                    THE LETTER FROM MISS MILBURY
                    On the evening appointed, the dentist went to the German garden on the north side to
                        meet his friend in the leather business, 
                            "IN THE LEATHER BUSINESS."
                         who had promised to lie there with Miss Laura Tupham and others. This time Miss Tupham
                        was not accompanied by her mother, and she seemed to enjoy her liberty, for she talked rapidly
                        and almost incessantly, and the dentist suspected that she wanted to flirt with him. She showed
                        her playful anger at the friend in the leather business by urging the dentist to move around and
                        sit beside her, and she even put her arm within his and said, "There  now!" this performance impressing the
                        dentist as being rather bold, although not entirely displeasing. He reflected that Miss Milbury
                        had never done anything of the kind, although he had been with her at least six times, and this
                        was the second time he had met Miss Tupham. He wondered if she ever served hold of other men,
                        after meeting them once or twice, and the more he wondered, the stronger became the conviction
                        that she was not to be Miss Milbury's successor in his affections.
                    If he had any remaining doubt, it vanished when he saw the waiter put a glass of beer
                        in front of her. The dentist had become accustomed to seeing both men and women drink the
                        forbidden cups, but he had never overcome the belief that it was sinful for their to do so. He
                        drank sometimes, but always with a shame which he could not fully conceal. He had been reared in
                        a community in Indiana which would have closed all doors against any woman who dared to drink
                        beer in a place of public entertainment. The other women of the town would have persecuted her
                        with endless denunciation. The dentist often told himself that he had become
                        "liberal" and  no longer judged
                        people by the narrow code of a fanatical village, and yet he was shocked and made sorry when he
                        saw that Miss Tupham was to drink a glass of beer. The question at once came to him,
                        "What would my relatives say of me and think of me if I married a woman who drank
                        beer?"
                    To be sure, he drank with her and even clinked glasses and laughed with the others,
                        but he knew that this would be the end of it, so far as Miss Laura Tupham was concerned.
                    The dentist was in the city, but not of it. The Indiana part of him insisted that any
                        woman who drank a glass of beer in a public garden thereby degraded herself. He doubted if Miss
                        Milbury would even visit such a place.
                    He was quite unhappy as he rode back to the hotel in the open car with his hat off,
                        the dusty breezes cooling his head. He found Doc' Home, the married man, the lush, and
                        the book-agent sitting in a semicircle near the Alfalfa doorway.
                    The high buildings to the west intercepted the breeze and the street was packed with
                        a moist and stifling heat. Doc' had removed 
                        his collar and tucked a handkerchief inside his neckband.
                    The book-agent's side-whiskers were hanging limp and becalmed. He had
                        removed both coat and vest. Occasionally he shifted the pale flowered suspenders and patted
                        himself and murmured, "Oh, dear!"
                    The five sat for a while and weakly cursed the temperature.
                    "Ah-h-h-h-h-h!" exclaimed the dentist in admiration, for a long
                        fork of lightning had suddenly played across the wall of black clouds to the north. While the
                        members of the colony were still looking, a faint rumble of thunder was heard, and a cooler puff
                        of air revived them.
                    "Feel that?" asked the dentist. "Were going to have
                        rain."
                    "I wouldn't be surprised if we had some lightning, too,"
                        said Doc' Horne, squinting at the clouds.
                    "I hope not," said the dentist. "I'm afraid of
                        lightning.''
                    "There isn't much danger if you keep away from the
                        windows,'' said the lush. "If a man sits in the window he's
                        almost sure to be struck by lightning. Best way's to  get in feathersnon-conductor. Go get in a feather bed and you're
                        safe."
                    "That's good advice," said the dentist. "I
                        don't suppose they've had a feather bed in the Alfalfa for ten
                        years."
                    "Speak to the old man and he'll send out and get a feather bed for
                        you," said the lush. "Anything we haven't got we can send out and
                        get."
                    The book-agent, who had been watching the flashes in the north, broke the silence
                        with a quotation:
                    "The sky is changed, and such a change! O night
                    Yet lovely in your strength, as is the light Of a dark eye in woman! Far along, From
                        peak to peak, the rattling crags among, Leaps the live thunder."
                    "That's great," said the dentist, in a whisper, after the
                        book-agent had finished. "Who wrote it?"
                    "Byron."
                    "He's the fellow you were telling me about the other
                        night."
                    "No; that was BryantWilliam Cullen Bryant.''
                    "Oh, I see. There are two of them."
                    
                    "There are five or six poets altogether," said the lush.
                    "I never was particularly afraid of lightning," said the
                        book-agent, addressing Doc' Horne, so as to give a turn to the conversation.
                    
                        THE BOOK-AGENT.
                    
                    "I never worry about it at all," said Doc'.
                    "I suppose that when it comes my time to go, they'll get me, no
                        matter where I am. The possibility of being struck by lightning never occurs to me, although, as
                        a matter of fact, I ought to be apprehensive, I suppose, considering that I had such a narrow
                        escape once. I was visiting some of my relatives down in Pennsylvania and had been out on a long
                        walk. A storm came up very suddenly when I was at least a mile from the house. I took refuge
                        under a tall tree, and I had barely done so when the tree was struck by lightning. The lightning
                        ran down the  trunk and tore up the ground terribly.
                        My clothes were ripped down one side and the shoe on that sideit was the left shoe, I thinkwas
                        scorched just as if it had been put into the fire. I remember that the nails in the heel were
                        partly melted. Beyond giving me a certain numbness for a while, the stroke had no effect on me.
                        I suppose that's because "
                    Just then the cooling breeze came with new strength and big raindrops began to splash
                        on the hot stones.
                    The members of the colony picked up their chairs and ran into the hotel. When the
                        dentist went to get his key he found a letter in the box and recognized the handwriting. The
                        letter was from Miss Milbury!
                    He went to his room and stood under the gas jet to read what she had written. Quick
                        flashes of lightning illumined the blank walls beyond his two windows. Peal after peal of
                        crashing thunder struck the building. The dentist had a fierce satisfaction in listening to the
                        storm as he read the letter. He regarded the wild accompaniment as an expression of the tumult
                        that had been raised in his own soul.
                    This is the letter: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            LAKE WAUTENON, July
                                                24.
                                            
                                            
                                                Dear Friend:
                                        
                                        When mother and I first spoke to you of our being at the lake
                                            this summer, you promised faithfully that you would run out some Sunday and
                                            call on us. Perhaps you have forgotten your promise, but you did is more beautiful this year than ever before, and
                                            there were never so many nice people herefrom Milwaukee and Chicago and
                                            quite a number from the south. We are at a cottage not far from the hotel.
                                            The 'bus will meet you at the Wautenon station and bring you to the
                                            hotel, and then any one can tell you the way. If you are coming out on
                                            Saturday you had better write or telegraph to the hotel for a room, as there
                                            is a crowd here every Sunday. Mother and I really hope you will come,
                                            because we know it must be dreadful to be cooped up in the dusty and smoky
                                            city, all through this hot weather.
                                        We are living in a cottage with a family from our old home. I am
                                            sure you would like them.
                                        Let us know when you are coming, and please don't
                                            disappoint us. Mother sends her regards and both of us wish to be remembered
                                            to Mr. Horne. Perhaps you could induce him to come with you. Be sure and come.
                                        
                                            I am, yours sincerely, LETITIA MILBURY.
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                    
                    Clearly it was not a love letter, and yet it was full of meaning for the dentist, who
                        walked back and forth in his room, gazing at the floor and pursing his lips. Acting on  a sudden impulse, he bolted into the hallway and
                        went direct to Doc' Home's room. Doc' had removed his outer garments
                        and was sitting in the window, cooling off.
                    "Doc', I'm in the devil of a fix," said the
                        dentist, as he frowned and twisted his mustache.
                    "What in the world's the matter now?"
                    "I've got a letter from Miss Milbury, and she wants me to come out
                        to the lake and visit them. It seems that I promised them I would. I don't remember it,
                        but I suppose I did."
                    "Are you going?"
                    "'I hadn't ought to go, Doc'. You know that. I
                        hadn't ought to. If you're not going to do a thing it isn't right
                        towell, to pretend that you are. I don't want to mislead any one. I'm a
                        gentleman, Doc'. I don't believe there ought to be any deception in a case of
                        this kind."
                    "Oh, well, write a diplomatic letter and excuse
                        yourself.''
                    "I can tell you one thingI'd like mighty well to go."
                    "Why not go, then?"
                    The dentist continued to pull at his mustache, but he made no reply.
                    
                    "How about the young lady you met last week?" asked Doc',
                        softly.
                    The dentist shook his head.
                    "I'd go out and visit them, I think," said Doc',
                        in a consoling tone. "Don't you think you'd better?"
                    "No!" exclaimed the dentist, jamming the letter into his side
                        pocket, and without saying another word he walked out.
                    Doc' was saddened by the turn of affairs. He began to fear that he was not
                        succeeding as a match-maker for the dentist.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVII
                    DOC' HORNE AS A DEGECTIVE
                    It came out one evening that Doc' Home had been a detective in Bolivar. He
                        was talking with the married man, and had 
                            THE CROSS-ROADS ORACLES.
                         given his theory as to that week's "mysterious disappearance.
                        ''
                    "You would have made a good detective, Doc'," said the
                        married man.
                    "I don't know that I have any particular ability in that
                        line," said Doc', picking at the charred end of his cigar. "I never
                        was a professional detective, but I cleared up one mystery after the police had given it up.
                        Certainly I gave a few points to the crossroads 
                        oracles over my way. The town of Bolivar was about forty miles from our home. For over a year
                        there had been a series of mysterious robberies at Bolivarat least thirty private houses and
                        stores had been entered. The locks had been picked in most cases, although occasionally the
                        robbers would get in by cutting out glass with a diamond. They took only jewels and moneynever
                        anything bulky. They went to the best houses in town and seemed to know the premises, for they
                        never spent any time in rummaging. They went direct to the place where the valuables were
                        concealed. One peculiarity of the robberies was that no one had ever been awakened while the
                        thieves were in the house. It was supposed that chloroform or some drug was used to keep the
                        inmates of the house asleep while the robbers were at work, but this could never be proved. The
                        robbers had never been caught at work except once. A night-watchman saw a door ajar and went
                        into the house to investigate. Some one stepped up to him and clapped a handkerchief to his
                        face, and that was the last he remembered until daylight. The police put oil extra men at night
                        after that, but it  didn't seem to make any
                        difference. The robberies went ahead just the sametwo or three a month. At last a friend of mine
                        said to me: 'Home, why don't you go over to Bolivar and find out who is
                        committing all those robberies?' I didn't care much for the reward, but the
                        mystery of the thing attracted me, and so I went over to Bolivar. "Whenever I undertake
                        anything I begin at the beginning. I didn't go off on any wild-goose chase. When I
                        reached Bolivar I went to the chief of police and got a list of robberies for a year past, the
                        date of each one, the value of goods stolen, and the location of each house entered. Then I went
                        to my room and sat down, with a map of Bolivar in front of me, and I marked with dots the houses
                        which had been robbed. When I finished I found that I had dotted out a sort of broad path
                        connecting the extreme northeast of town with the southwest. You must understand that Bolivar
                        was built along the river, which runs south at that part of its course. My discovery relating to
                        the path of the robberies was interesting, but it didn't prove anything. Then I studied
                        the dates, and in two minutes I made another discovery. I found  that all the robberies had been committed during the first half of each
                        monththat is, between the first and fifteenth. Strangely enough, no one had ever called
                        attention to that fact before. I said to myself: 'These robberies are committed by some
                        one who is either out of town during the last half of each month, or who has some particular
                        reason for keeping quiet. It is evident that he knows all about the interior arrangements of the
                        residences in this town. He is a clever man, also, or he would not have escaped
                        suspicion.' Well, I sat around and thought it over, and I'll confess I was
                        puzzled to know how to begin. Then a very curious thing happened. I picked up a morning paper
                        and glanced at it, and there, on the first page, was a big advertisement of 'Dr. James
                        Brascall, specialist in electrical treatment, will be in Bolivar from May Ist to May
                        15th.' I jumped up and said: 'That's my man!' I'd
                        never heard of him before, but I felt, intuitively, that I had struck a trail.
                    "I began making inquiries. I learned that Dr. Brascall had been visiting
                        Bolivar, in a professional way, two weeks out of each month for a year or more. He had an  office on the main street, but he also gave
                        treatments in his room at Mrs. Allen's house, which was in the northwest part of town.
                        He was well liked in Bolivar, especially by the men, and had been admitted to membership in the
                        club there. Much to my surprise, I learned that he was not a society man. So far as I could
                        ascertain, he had visited but two or three of the houses which had been robbed. His reputation
                        in the town was above reproach. He attended church regularly and had no bad habits. The doctors
                        of the town called him a quack and an impostor, naturally, because he advertised, but, on the
                        other hand, most of his patients stood up for him. I could learn of nothing which would show
                        that he had been implicated in the robberies, and yet I felt in my bones that he was the man. I
                        went to Mrs. Allen's house, where he roomed, and, under pretense of wishing to engage a
                        room, I got into conversation with the woman. She said she could give me a room on the second
                        floorthat Dr. Brascall had taken the only first-floor room. I asked her if I could have the
                        doctor's room while he was in Pittsburg. She said the doctor paid for the room, even
                        while he was out of  town, and had given particular
                        orders that no one should be allowed in his room-while he was away. In further conversation she
                        said that the doctor never went out at night, but this did not spoil my theory, as I surmised
                        that he might have taken a first-floor room so as to be able to get out through a window without
                        disturbing any one.
                    "The case presented difficulties, and yet I was more than ever keen to fix
                        the robberies on this doctor. I went to the chief of police and had another long talk. I asked
                        him if he had ever suspected any one. He said that at one time Bill Gregory was under suspicion.
                        I asked about Gregory and learned that he was a man-of-all-work, employed by Mrs. Walton, a
                        widow, who lived in the southeast part of town. She had come to Bolivar about a year before and
                        had brought Gregory with her. He did all the work around the place, and drove her phaeton when
                        she went calling. She was something of an invalid, subject to nervous attacks, and this Gregory
                        had to help her in and out of the houses where she called. It seemed that one night Gregory was
                        seen coming out of an alley, and a policeman stopped him and found a revolver on him.
                    
                    Gregory claimed that he was on his way to summon Dr. Brascall to attend Mrs. Walton,
                        who was suffering from one of her attacks, and that he had come through the alley for a short
                        cut. The policeman doubted him, so he went with Gregory to Mrs. Allen's house. After
                        some delay, Dr. Brascall came to the door. The policeman followed the doctor to Mrs.
                        Walton's house. He found her in great pain. She said she had sent Gregory for the
                        doctor, and of course that satisfied the policeman and relieved Gregory from suspicion.
                    "Well, sir, that set me to thinking. I asked the chief to indicate to me on
                        the map where Mrs. Walton lived. He did so, and I saw at once that this house and the house in
                        which the doctor lived marked the ends of the district within which the robberies had been
                        committed. In other words, any one proceeding from the doctor's house to Mrs.
                        Walton's house could pass by any house or store that had been robbed and still not be
                        going out of the way. I surmised at once that Mrs. Walton was in the plot; that she was to be
                        ready to testify, in case the doctor fell under suspicion because of his appearance on the
                        streets at night, that she had  sent for him and that
                        he was on his way to attend her. But Mrs. Allen had said that the doctor did not go out at
                        night. I believed then that Gregory came to his window and tapped and that the doctor crawled
                        out of the window. At any rate, I felt sure that both Gregory and the charming widow were in the
                        game. I inquired regarding Mrs. Walton, and learned that she was very popular with the best
                        people, and was a prominent member of the literary club which met at the homes of the members.
                        At last I began to understand how the doctor, supposing that he was the guilty ring-leader,
                        learned where the jewelry and valuables were kept in each residence. By this time I had the case
                        fairly mapped out in my own mind, but I hadn't a particle of proof.
                    "I sounded the chief of police as to Dr. Brascall, without hinting my
                        suspicions. It seemed that he and the doctor were intimate friends. In fact, the doctor had
                        assisted him in getting up a new schedule for the night policemen so that they could cover the
                        town more effectively. Yes, sir, that doctor had actually assigned the policemen to their beats,
                        so that he would know how to keep out of their way.
                    
                    "Well, when my investigations were about this far along, the doctor, whom I
                        had seen only casually, went to Pittsburg. I followed him, and learned that while he was in that
                        city he made but little pretense to practice, and spent most of his time in gambling. As soon as
                        he returned to Bolivar again I resolved to bring matters to a head and watch the house where he
                        lived. For three nights I lay crouched behind a rose bush watching his windows, and I could have
                        sworn that no one came to the house or went away. On the third morning, after I got back to the
                        hotel, I learned that the Pearson residence had been entered and fifteen hundred
                        dollars' worth of diamonds taken. I could not believe that Brascall had left the house
                        that night, and yet I felt sure that he had done the job. I knew that I had to deal with a
                        mystery, sure enough.
                    "My whole theory was apparently destroyed. I had surmised that the widow,
                        Mrs. Walton, would send this man Gregory to summon Dr. Brascall. The doctor and Gregory would
                        start in the direction of the widow's house at the other end of the town. If seen out
                        at night together they had a plausible story to tell, and the widow stood ready to  corroborate everything they said. There would never
                        be any chance to implicate them unless they were actually caught in the act of robbery. I had
                        watched the house in order to shadow the doctor. There had been another robbery, and yet he had
                        not left the house, so far as I could observe. Some men would have been discouraged under the
                        circumstances, but I was not. I simply concluded that he was clever enough to get out of the
                        house without using the front door or the back door or crawling through a window.
                    "How could that be?" asked the married man.
                    "There was a cellar under the house," said Doc',
                        impressively. "What was to prevent him loosening the carpet and sawing out a trapdoor
                        in the floor, so that he could lower himself into the cellar, and thus get out of the house
                        through a cellar door at the rear? A grape arbor extended from this cellar door to the barn or
                        shed, next to the alley. He could come up out of the cellar, slip along the grape arbor, go
                        through the shed, and reach the alley without being seen by any one watching the house from the
                        side or front."
                    
                    "Well, I'll be darned!" said the bicycle youth.
                    "I examined the cellar the evening after the Pearson robbery," said
                        Doc'.
                    "How did you get in?" asked the married man.
                    Doc' smacked his lips dryly and winked at the dentist. Then he said:
                        "I simply went in. Suffice to say, I located the trap-door, and figured out in my own
                        mind the exact plan of the robbers. Brascall and Gregory would plan on a robbery for a certain
                        night. Gregory would leave Mrs. Walton's house for the pretended purpose of summoning
                        the doctor. One might naturally suppose that he would have gone to the house where the doctor
                        roomed and rung him or tapped on his window. But they were too shrewd. They figured that sooner
                        or later some suspicious person would be waiting to shadow them, and so they had it arranged
                        that Brascall was to come out through the cellar and meet Gregory in the alley. Then they would
                        start in the general direction of the widow's house. As I told you before, Brascall
                        knew exactly what districts the police were covering at that time of night, because he had
                        helped the chief arrange the  schedule. His
                        appearance on the street at any hour of the night would arouse no suspicion, and he could carry
                        a box supposed to be a 'battery' for his electrical treatment. I'll
                        tell you, that man was clever. I saw that I would have to detect him in the act before I could
                        bring any proof which would be conclusive to a jury. The only sensible plan, it seemed to me,
                        was to hide in that shed every night until they went out again, and then to follow them. For
                        five nights I sat all night long back in a dark corner of this shed, waiting for something to
                        happen. On the sixth nightit was then along about the middle of June, and I remember it was a
                        warm night, but cloudy I heard some one in the alley. In a little while the door leading to the
                        yard opened, and in came Brascall with a big box, which he carried by a handle. My eyes were
                        accustomed to the darkness, and I could see him distinctly. He passed through to the alley, and
                        I heard the two men walk away together, talking in a low tone. I slipped out and followed at a
                        safe distance. Then I realized for the first time that I had no authority as an officer; that it
                        was one man against two desperate, armed men, and that  even if I saw them commit a robbery my word might not be accepted against that of Dr.
                        Brascall, who was well known in Bolivar, while I was a comparative stranger. But it was too late
                        to back out. I followed them, and, to make a long story short, I saw them slip through the back
                        yard of Judge Wilkinson's house and start to work at the door. They were experts, sure
                        enough, for they had that door open in two minutes. They slipped in, and closed the door behind
                        them, and I tiptoed up, and, taking off my shoes, I followed into the house. Just inside the
                        door my foot struck something, and at the same time I got an odor of chloroform or ether. I
                        picked up the cloth soaked with the stuff, whatever it was, and threw it out of the back door. I
                        could hear the two men ahead of me in the house, and I guessed that they were planting these
                        soaked cloths around the house so as to keep the inmates asleep. In a flash I realized what I
                        would have to do. I opened the back door, and then I felt my way through the sitting-room to the
                        front hallway. I could hear the two men whispering in the parlor. It was a big risk, but I felt
                        my way to the stairway, which I could see dimly, and then crawled  upstairs. There was a big pair of windows on the landing above, opening in
                        the old-fashioned way, like shutters. I gently pushed the windows open. One of them squeaked,
                        but I heard no sound from below, so I went ahead. I felt a draught of air up the stairway. I
                        knew that most of the other windows were open also, and so I had no fear of the chloroform
                        keeping the family asleep while there was a movement of fresh air in the house. My time had
                        come. I stood at the bend of the stairway, and when Brascall and Gregory came up I jumped
                        between them and the front door and said: 'Don't move, or I'll
                        shoot!' Then I blew a police whistle, and the old judge himself came running out,
                        followed by the whole family, half-dressed. Brascall and Gregory stood there looking into my
                        pistol. I had caught them fairly. The women were screaming, and every one was excited, of
                        course. Judge Wilkinson grabbed Brascall, and wanted to know what was the matter. Gentlemen,
                        would you believe it? Brascall told him that he and Gregory saw me enter the house and had
                        followed me. The judge believed it, too, but I didn't lose my nerve. I told them to
                        send for the police and have 
                        
                            FOR THREE NIGHTSBEHIND A ROSE BUSH.
                         all three of us taken to the station. Brascall protested, and said he had to call on
                        Mrs.
                    
                    Walton at once, but he couldn't bluff me. I made the police take all three
                        of us to the station. When we got there I said: 'Open that box!' They opened
                        Brascall's box, and it contained what seemed to be a battery. The police laughed at me.
                        They actually laughed at me. They thought I was the thief and was trying a clever scheme to
                        clear myself. Well, I was mad. I grabbed that 'battery' and tore off the false
                        top, and underneath was a kit of tools for picking locks and a bottle of chloroform. Brascall
                        smiled at Gregory and said: 'It's all up.' Then I told the police to
                        go and search his rooms. They found all the Pearson diamonds, and of course that settled it. But
                        maybe you think that town wasn't torn up next day! They never did get through poking
                        fun at that chief of police. It came out later that Mrs. Walton was really Brascall's
                        wife."
                    "Well, what did Brascall get?" asked the married man.
                    "Ten years, the same as Gregory," replied Doc'.
                        "He always claimed that if I had kept away from Bolivar he never would have been
                        caught."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVIII
                    THE LOSS OF THE LITTLE LADY
                    As the month of August was passing, the freckled boy met with reverses. He lost not
                        only his money but his "little lady," 
                            TRYING TO RECOUP.
                         this being the name he gave to the girl whom he had favored with his society at least
                        two nights in every week.
                    When the boy first came to the hotel he found employment as a house-to-house salesman
                        and "introduced' ' a new kind of soap. In a few weeks he learned that
                        a fortune awaited him at the race-track, so he began to "play the
                        horses.'' Luck was with him at the start, for he carried a roll of bills,
                        which he brought out and fondled every  evening,
                        merely to tantalize those persons who were so stupid as to work for a living.
                    He would crowd himself to the front of the evening group at the hotel and say:
                        "Well, I picked three of 'em to-day. I got a four-to-one that I ought to
                        backed off the board becuz I couldn't see nothin' else to it. I ought to laid
                        a hunderd on that race. At that, I'm forty to the good. W'y, it's
                        just like takin' candy away from a baby. I s'pose I don't know a
                        thing about them ponies. An' I've got to-morrow's card just about
                        figured out, too."
                    "Keep at it, my young friend," said Doc'.
                        "It's only a question of time until they take all you have."
                    "Don't you believe it, Doc'. Whenever I lay a piece
                        o' money on a race I know purty well what I'm doin'."
                    One evening when he came back he did not display any money. Neither did he talk about
                        his unfailing ability to pick the winner. The colony suspected that his career as a race-track
                        gambler had come to an end. Three days after that, the dentist found him standing in front of a
                        doorway in Jackson Street, urging people to "go upon  the inside" and have their straw hats cleaned for five cents a hat.
                    "Hello!" exclaimed the dentist. "You're not at
                        the track any more?"
                    The boy was embarrassed, but he managed to say: "No, I've got a
                        better thing right here."
                    "Cleaning straw hats?"
                    "Yes, we knock out fifty a day."
                    "Hats?"
                    "Naw, not hats! Fifty plunks."
                    "At five cents a hat?"
                    "Well, we take it in, just the same. They keep us busy nearly all the time.
                        It's a little quiet just now."
                    The news -was carried to the hotel, and the lush found great pleasure in taunting the
                        boy.
                    "So you're the fellow that couldn't go wrong?" he
                        asked.
                    "That's all right," said the freckled boy, sullenly.
                        "I didn't lose much."
                    "No, but you lost all you had."
                    "I may lose, but I don't holler. That's me! It's
                        my money an' I quit game. You don't hear me hollerin'. All I say is
                        that the horse was pulled. That's right, too. Say, there was the rankest job ever
                        pulled  off on a track. I know them horses. That
                        wasn't my first day at a track, I'll tell you that. There was only one way for
                        Dido to lose that race, and that was to drop dead at the post.
                    "But she didn't win?" asked the lush.
                    "How could she, when she was pulled? I just tore up two hunderd
                        dollars' worth of ticketsthat's all I done. Well, that's all right. I
                        ain't hollerin', but I want to tell you that Gracie Watson didn't
                        have no more license to beat Dido that day than I've got to walk backwards from here to
                        Milwaukee and beat the limited. Talk about your steals! W'y, it was worse than
                        takin' money right out o' your pocket. Everybody seen it. And at that this dog
                        only wins by a head. Would I play him for place? No, not for a minute. I says,
                        'There's only one horse in the race, and them others'll be back
                        o' the flag. It was the worst case of fixin' a race I ever seen. Oh well, a
                        man gets it that way once in a while. I lose my money and I ain't
                        hollerin'."
                    During the two weeks of his connection with the hat-cleaning industry the boy played
                        poker at a Clark Street room, in the hope that he might recoup his losses. The  poker-players "trimmed him," as he
                        expressed it, and in this period of financial depression the "little lady"
                        rejected him, or, to use his own language, "tied a can to him.''
                    He told the dentist the story one night. The dentist listened in sad amusement and
                        thought of the contrast between this love affair and his own.
                    "She's got my name up over the door with 'nix'
                        after it," said the freckled boy. "My coin give out, an' my talk
                        wasn't strong enough to hold her, so I'm scratched."
                    "Did you have a quarrel?" asked the dentist.
                    "Last night. I've told you about this little party, ain't
                        I?"
                    "I think so."
                    "Well, she was number one with me yesterday, and I thought I was the hot
                        favorite with her, but she couldn't see me to-day if I run in front of her and made
                        motions."
                    "And I thought you were popular."
                    "Strong? It looked to me that you couldn't get us apart with a
                        crowbar. I thought she needed me. If anybody 'd said to me that he could split us out
                        I'd told him  to write his own ticket.
                        That's how good I was. I had myself billed as the real papa. I was writin'
                        mash notes to myself. That's right. I had about three lamps goin' at the same
                        time an' I couldn't roll "em big enough. Then just about the time I
                        begin to pick out red plush furniture for the bird's nest I wake up an' find
                        myself layin' in the snow. I'm a bright young fellowwith a copper on it. Me
                        sayin' that a blacksmith couldn't drive a needle in between us! Well, you
                        could get a half-mile track inside o' the separation to-day. Say, I can just see the
                        canary goin' up to join the carpenters' uniona hammer in each hand. Got a
                        brother, tooa scrapper. Husky? He's got a chest on him like a snow-plow. If ever I go
                        to the mat with that truck-horse there won't be a thing to it."
                    "You're not afraid of him, are you?" "I
                        ain't, eh? You ought to see him. He's got me nervous. I go along the street
                        with my guard up, on the level. You ought to see me to-dayridin' on the platform so as
                        to be ready to make a run for it if anything come off. You think you get me on one o'
                        them high trains? Well, I should say otherwise. None o' the elevated for me.
                    
                    It's too far to jump. I refuse to start unless they put me on a
                        track."
                    "Why should he interfere? You didn't do anything that would justify
                        him in licking you, did you?"
                    "Well, I didn't use her none too gentle. I kind o' jolted
                        her a couple."
                    "Then I don't blame him."
                    "I didn't pass 'em to her, understand? I did it
                        pullin' away, see? Here! I'll tell you what led up to it. You know, when I
                        been landin' in there they light all the gas in the house, and then if I don't
                        look pleased they send out and get some more. Well, last night things didn't light up
                        in any hurry, but I was so swelled on myself settin' there with the blue check and the
                        new four-in-hand that I didn't take no notice. Purty soon the real article floated in
                        and handed me a cake of ice. Well, that didn't stop me, becuz my specialty is
                        makin' these chilly dolls change their minds and think well of me. I started in to deal
                        a very neat line of talk about the weather, an' she give me a glassy look an'
                        says: 'How about the tickets?' This is the fifth week that I been
                        tellin' her that I'd take her to see a dollar'n a. half show. I says: 'Just my luck!
                    
                    Couldn't get a seat in the housed!' 'No-o-o?' she
                        says, givin' me the haughty look. 'No,' I says, 'I
                        couldn't get nothin' at all except way up high, and I wouldn't take
                        you up among them fellows, becuz I love you too well for that!' No use. That
                        didn't faze her. I begin to get next, and see that I'd lost my number by
                        failin' to show up with three dollars' worth of tickets, but no box office
                        ever gets three out o' me at one toss, unless they use chloroform. As I say, I saw she
                        had an awful grouch about the tickets. Either that or somethin' live had turned up and
                        was workin' to undermine me. In either case it was up to me to pump some hot air. I
                        slid over on the sofa next to her an' tried for the half-Nelson, but she hollered and
                        refused to clinch. Then I started in to be rough, but she wouldn't stand for it. She
                        fouled me with her wrist right in the face an" broke away. Oh, the look she give me!
                        Talk about your lemon ice or your sour drops! She set clear over on the other side of the room,
                        and no nearer than that could I get. The way she wiggled around on that chair you'd
                        thought there was an oil stove under it. It was 'yes' and
                        'no' to all the cracks I made, but no givin'  in, an' after while I begin to get sore myself, and was
                        about to get up an' declare myself when some one rings the front doorbell, an'
                        she does a sprint to see who it is. In a little while I hear her buzzin' somebody out
                        in the hall. Me in the parlor, understand? pipin' the pictures an' the phoney
                        album an' her outside makin' it pleasant for the new entry. This went on for
                        about ten minutes an' then I begin to see that I'm in the way. They'd
                        laugh once in a while, and I figured that they was havin' fun with me. Whoever the guy
                        was, he put the rollers under me all right. They kept me shell-roaded in the parlor for fifteen
                        minutes, and then I broke out. I didn't mind bein' thrown, but I wanted
                        'em to notice how graceful I went into the air. So I went out and broke it
                        up."
                    "Did you make trouble?"
                    "Did I? First I sneaked up to the door an' listened. I heard him
                        say somethin' about the 'fourth row of the circle' an'
                        'leavin' the house about half-past seven,' an' I knew that
                        whoever he was, he'd give up his coin an' copped the princess. I opened the
                        door sudden, and there they was, settin' on the bottom stair, holdin' hands.
                    
                    I says: 'I thought I'd come out an' mingle. It's
                        gettin' a little frosty in there, an' I'd like to meet some nice
                        people an' talk it over. I've got some lovely conversation that's
                        never been used at all.' The little lady shot one o' them cold-storage looks
                        at me an' said: 'We're havin' a private talk.' That
                        encouraged his nobs with the pink shirt to come up strong, an' he says:
                        'It's about a matter that don't interest you.' That was two
                        bumps as near as I could count. I'm bright enough to see it was my cue to duck, but
                        I'd been there too long to let any stranger chase me out. So I says: 'If
                        you've got time to step outside I'd like to fix it up with you.' The
                        little lady pushes in between us an' says to me: 'You behave
                        yourself!' He was gettin' pale an' leary, an' said to her
                        that he thought he'd be goin'. By that time I was so mad that nothin'
                        but a scrap'd do me. He opened the door an' side-stepped, me after him
                        an' the little lady hangin' on to me an' sayin':
                        'Now, you behave! Now, you behave!' Him down the steps in a hurry,
                        an' then kickin' around for somethin' to throw at me. She had me
                        collared on the top step an' was hangin' on as if she thought I was a  good thing. I told her two or three times to break
                        nicely, but she wouldn't listen. Well, Bud, you know how it is. You ain't
                        expected to swing on 'em, so all I could do was to let the elbow go back a couple
                        o' times. She let out a horrible grunt, an' then made one o' them
                        ladylike over-handed swipes at me, but I dodged it. Cinch! Just as I dodges, a brick comes past
                        me, bing! an' hits the front door. Then me after the enemy. Did I ketch him?
                        W'y, I didn't have a show for the money. When I'd run a block he must
                        'a' been at Garfield Park. Besides, here I was, bare-headed. I started back
                        an' s'posed I'd have to tear down the house to get my hat, but I
                        finds it on the steps. You ought to see me nail it an' run my mile. I was
                        expectin' brother to come right out o' the window at me."
                    
                        "THE LITTLE LADY."
                    
                    
                    "What were you afraid of? Hadn't you just chased one fellow
                        away?"
                    "Who? The one that come in with a check for my seat? Say, he
                        wouldn't weigh 115, shirt and all. You can bet I always pick the right man before I
                        lose control o' myself.
                    "But he was big enough to cut you out, wasn't he?"
                    "Yes, but he had to loosen up with the coin before he done it. If ever I get
                        a flash at that boy it'll be first me to him an' then one o' them
                        rubber-tired wagons from the hospital.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIX
                    THE DENTIST LOSES HIS LAST CHANCE
                    The dentist did not reply to the letter from Miss Milbury. He intended to write the
                        diplomatic letter suggested by Doc', but on itting down to compose it he found that he
                        could not choose the language. He feared that a thankful letter, protesting gratitude, would
                        encourage her to write again and might involve him in a correspondence. Then it would be more
                        difficult than ever to give her up. As he sat with the pen poised above the letter, he told
                        himself that only a brute could answer such a letter with cold and discouraging formality. He
                        dismissed, one after another, the lies 
                            THE DENTIST IN SUMMER.
                        
                         which might be offered in explanation of his
                        "regrets." At last he tore up the paper and said that he would try again,
                        to-morrow.
                    A week passed, and he told himself that he had waited too long and would not answer
                        at all. It was a rude but effective way of closing an incident which he had hoped to make the
                        prelude to his life's happiness.
                    One day he received an advertising folder from the hotel at Wautenon. He concluded
                        that Miss Milbury had given his name to the proprietor of the hotel. She could not and would not
                        write to him again, until he had paid the courtesy of an answer, but she could give him a last
                        chance. The folder was in the style usually chosen for the advertising of summer resorts:
                    
                        "Oh, fairest spot on all this earth!
                        Oh, dream of paradise!
                        Wautenon."McKay.
                    
                    Beneficent Nature was indeed kindly in her gifts to lake set with a framework of
                        richest foliage! The trees rise tall and stately from the very edge of the dimpled waters, and
                        the hush of primeval Nature is only broken by the cheery twitter of feathered songsters or the
                        splah of some finny monarch glorying in strength and freedom. Here, far from the haunts of  busy men, worn traveler may seek surcease from the
                        cark and care of this workaday world and while the hours away in sweet forgetfulness. Or, if he
                        be piscatorially inclined, boats, tackle and bait will be provided at moderate charges.
                    Nestling in the groves, "God's first temples," are limpid
                        streams that purl softly over their mossy beds or sing tender lullabys as they ripple adown the
                        pebbly inclines. May Ransom, the blithe poetess of Bradbury, visited Lake Wautenon two years
                        ago, and while under the spell of its varied charms wrote these lines:
                    
                        "Most beauteous home I ever knew,
                        And one that is so restful, too."
                    
                    Truly spoken, for any one who has lingered in the cool, deep shade of
                        Wautenon's shore or partaken of the true hospitality at the magnificent hostelry will
                        thereafter cherish the memory in his or her heart of hearts.
                    The dentist showed this circular to Doc', and gave his suspicion.
                    "She had something to do with sending it," he said. "They
                        don't know me up at 'Lake Wautenon.
                    "And you say you didn't answer her letter?" inquired
                        Doc'. "That's badtoo bad."
                    "I didn't see any confounded use in keeping up a correspondence
                        after what you told me. I thought it would be better for me not  to go ahead, so I stopped the only way I knew how. I simply stopped. I
                        didn't answer her letter. And it was a low-down, mean way to end the whole business,
                        too. Darned if I ain't ashamed of myself. Oh, well, I'll never see her again.
                        I suppose she'll think I've turned out to be a pretty cheap specimen. Oh,
                        well! What's the difference? It's all right."
                    He was as cheerful as a man speaking from the gallows.
                    Doc' had been slow of perception during the previous talks with his friend,
                        but now he understood that the dentist was very much in love with Miss Milbury. However, as the
                        dentist did not seem disposed to admit it, even if he knew it, Doc' did not offer his
                        services as a reconciling agent.
                    For many weeks after that, the dentist did not mention the name of Miss Milbury, and
                        he never spoke of matrimony except to damn it. He came into his partnership in the Neapolitan
                        Dental Parlors, and he moved into the largest front room in the Alfalfa Hotel. The prosperity
                        which had justified his intention to marry was growing, but he seemed less cheerful than before.
                    
                    The waistcoats and cravats were changed less frequently.
                    Doc' was again deceived. He believed that the dentist had lapsed into
                        indifference, and he began to doubt that the dentist had loved deeply, even during July and
                        August.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XX
                    THE REFORMATION THE LUSH
                    After months of delicate persuasion Doc' accomplished a purpose. He induced
                        the lush to promise to refrain from all drinking for the period of one month. In making this
                        promise the lush did not admit that he had been drinking too much or that any change in his
                        daily habits was necessary. He gave the promise merely to oblige Doc'.
                    
                        "DELICATE PERSUASION."
                    
                    "You seem anxious to make a good boy out of me, Doc'," he
                        said. "Some times when you give me these sermonettes on the quiet I begin to think
                        I'm a regular drunkard."
                    "Not at all, my dear sir, but I wouldn't be  surprised if you did, occasionally, drink a little more than is good
                        for you."
                    "Do you think so, Doc'?" asked the lush, tapping on the
                        arm of his chair and not lifting his eyes when he asked the question.
                    "I don't mean to say that you drink to excess," explained
                        Doc', "but I think it possible that if you would practically abstain from
                        drinking for a while your general health might improve, and possibly your nerves would be
                        steadier."
                    "Well, I don't know; it doesn't seem to me I've
                        been drinking more than usual. I've been accustomed, for some time, to take a drink
                        whenever I felt like it."
                    "That's true, but possibly your system isn't as hardy as
                        it used to be. You take my advice. Don't touch a drop of it, forsay, a month."
                    The lush drew a long whistle.
                    "Do you know what you're asking me to do?" he said.
                    "You're like every other man, I suppose? You can drink it or you
                        can leave it alone."
                    "Well, Doc', I'll go and get a final one right now, and
                        that'll be the last one for a month. And when I say a month I mean it. It's a
                        go!"
                    
                    He meant it, too. The dentist, the freckled boy, and even the book-agent smiled and
                        were skeptical when he told of his resolution. Their apparent contempt maddened him, and made
                        him all the more determined.
                    The first week was full of misery for him. He was glum and solitary, avoiding the
                        night sessions at the front door. He made many trips to the corner drug-store and tried to get
                        cheer from phosphates and other temperance drinks. Failing in this effort, he would return to
                        his room. He resented all friendly speech, even though it came from Doc'.
                    One Sunday the dentist was passing the door when he heard groans and profane
                        exclamations. Being rather frightened, he knocked.
                    "Come in!" shouted the lush.
                    The dentist opened the door and saw his friend coiled on the bed. The shoes, coat and
                        vest had been removed. The lush had his head butted into a soft pillow.
                    'Feeling rocky?'' asked the dentist, in a gentle tone.
                    "Nofeeling fine," replied the lush, glaring up at him.
                    
                    "What can I do for you?"
                    "Go get an ax and hit me in the head. Oh-h! Gosh!"
                    "Can you eat anything?"
                    "Yes, certainly. I just had two sponge cakes and a gallon of lemonade. Eat
                        anything? I look like a man that wants to eat, don't I?"
                    "Where does it pain you the most?"
                    "Nowhere! You don't think I'm in pain, do you?"
                    There was a timid knock at the door, and the lush yelled, "Come
                        in!"
                    The bellboy slipped in softly and asked: "Did you ring?"
                    The lush sat up on the bed and glared at the boy, who began to tremble.
                    "How long does it take electricity to travel?" he asked.
                    "Huh?" from the boy.
                    "Huh? When I push this button up here, does it take twenty minutes for the
                        bell to ring downstairs?"
                    "I don't know, sir."
                    "You don't know? How does it happen that you came up here at
                        all?"
                    "The clerk sent me up."
                    "Oh, he did, did he? Well, you tell that  clerk that when I ring I want somebody to come here the same day. Do you
                        understand?"
                    "Yes, sir."
                    "Well, what is it I told you to tell him?"
                    
                        "WHENEVER I FELT LIKE IT."
                    
                    "Whythat when you" The boy became confused and was unable to say
                        any more.
                    "That's right!" exclaimed the lush.
                        "You've got a great memory."
                    "Oh, leave the boy alone," said the dentist, interfering as mildly
                        as he could.
                    "I'll have to write it out," snarled the lush.
                        "Say, if you can remember it till you get downstairs, tell that cheap clerk to send
                        into the drug-store and get me a small bottle of Jamaica ginger."
                    "Yes, sir; is that all?" asked the boy, moving toward the door, as
                        if anxious to escape.
                    "Then when you get that, you go and  jump down the elevator-shaft." Having thus delivered himself, he
                        plowed his head into the pillow once more, kicked convulsively and let out one long, lingering,
                        quavering groan of the most intense agony.
                    Then he flopped over on the bed, threw one of the pillows into the air, and began to
                        sing in a husky, trembling voice:
                    
                        "Be it ev-er so hum-bul,
                        There's no-ho place like home."
                    
                    After this he put his head under the pillow and lay very quiet for several moments,
                        apparently to induce the dentist to believe that the end had come.
                    There was another tap at the door, and the dentist said, "Come in!"
                    It was the chambermaid.
                    She came into the room, and then said, very timidly: "I wondered if he
                        wanted me to tidy up the room for him."
                    "I'll ask him," said the dentist.
                    The lush still had the pillow over his head and he pretended not to hear. This
                        frightened the chambermaid, who said: "Goodness me! Poor man!"
                    "What the dickens do you want?" He came out from under the pillow
                        very suddenly,  with his hair rumpled. When he saw
                        the chambermaid standing at the door-way, he looked at her so ferociously that she was alarmed
                        and began to back away.
                    "The girl wants to know if she can clean up the room a little."
                    "I don't care what she does. Tell her to go ahead and make the bed,
                        and not mind me. I don't s'pose I've got any right in this room even
                        if I do pay for it, have I?"
                    "Well, the girl simply wanted to know."
                    "You tell her to come in and take up the carpet if she wants to.
                        Ooh-h-h-h!"
                    "I'll come back after a while," said the pale chambermaid,
                        backing out of the room.
                    "Why don't you have the girl fix up the room a little?"
                        asked the dentist.
                    "Why are you worrying about that girl? Is she a friend of yours? Because, if
                        it's any accommodation to you, I can go out and sit in the bath-tub while she fixes up
                        the room. I don't see that I've got anything to say about it, anyway. Come
                        in!" This last was delivered in a shriek.
                    The frightened bellboy came in on tiptoe, carrying a bottle wrapped in pink paper. He
                        mumbled something about ginger.
                    "Well, give it to me," exclaimed the lush.
                    
                    "What are you holding it for? I'm the one that's going to
                        take this ginger. You didn't buy it for yourself, did you?"
                    "No, sir," replied the boy, meekly.
                    "Great Scott!" he shouted, when he pulled away the paper and saw
                        the fourounce bottle of ginger. "Why didn't you bring this in a
                        bucket?"
                    "Huh?"
                    "Huh? The next time I order ginger you tell the clerk to have it sent up in
                        a barrel. Did you think I wanted to bathe in ginger? Of all the idiots I ever saw, this hotel is
                        swarming with 'em. You tell the clerk I'm going to drink two or three quarts
                        of this ginger and use the rest to wash the windows with. You just tell him that for me. And
                        sometime this afternoon, if you haven't got anything else to do and you feel well at
                        the time, you might bring me a pitcher of waterand be sure it's full of
                        microbes."
                    "Full of what?" asked the terror-stricken boy.
                    "Microbes! Will you remember that? I want plenty of microbes."
                    "Yes, sir."
                    "And don't forget about jumping down  the elevator-shaft. You know you promised me to do that."
                    "Yes, sir."
                    "Well, what are you waiting for?"
                    "Oh!" and the boy escaped.
                    The lush once more put his head under the pillow and began to groan. The dentist
                        said: "Well, good-by; I'm glad to find you so amiable," and he
                        followed the bellboy. Just as he left the room he thought he heard, from under the pillow,
                        something like "Go to blazes!"
                    After nearly two weeks of abstinence the lush spent less time in his room, and was
                        more companionable, sometimes sitting with the others of an evening, although he had little to
                        say. He was irritable and the freckled boy's loud conversation annoyed him. With the
                        others he was serious, but not discourteous. Doc' hoped that the reformation would be
                        for all time.
                    The lush might never have taken another drink if he had not been subjected to a most
                        unusual temptation when Doc' was arrested on the only criminal charge ever brought
                        against a Horne.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXI
                    HOW HE THWARTED THE ST. LOUIS ROBBERS
                    The first cool weather of autumn hurries the tramp population into Chicago. The
                        wandering beggars who have infested 
                            "WROTE MY ST. LOUIS ADDRESS ON THE ENVELOPE."
                         country lanes and ridden on car-trucks during  the summer, flock into the city. They assemble at the basement drinking
                        places in the squalid "levee" district by day and at night they creep into
                        ten-cent lodging houses or lie in dark stairways. When they tell their stories to doubting
                        pedestrians they are workingmen who have sought jobs for many days and are dying of hunger. Some
                        who are not too much weakened in body and spirit demand the money which they cannot get by
                        beggary. Cold weather stings them to desperation, and the cringing "hobo"
                        becomes the "desperate robber" so frequently mentioned by the police reporter.
                    After a week of frosty nights the newspapers spoke of the "annual carnival
                        of crime," and the colony at the Alfalfa Hotel had several meetings to discuss the
                        footpad and criticise the police department.
                    One evening Doc' told of his experience with highway robbers. The bicycle
                        salesman had been reading an evening paper, and when he lowered it he said: "Well, what
                        do you think of that? Here's a fellow that went into a house right in the broad of day
                        and choked a woman and got away with all the money and jewelry."
                    
                    "That's nothingfor Chicago," said the lush. "Over
                        here on the west side they went into a house while the family was in the dining-room, and moved
                        out all the furniture in the parlor, including the piano. They left the carpets, I
                        believe."
                    "When was that?" asked the bicycle youth.
                    "Oh, most any old time. I can't remember the dates of all the
                        robberies in Chicago."
                    The dentist confessed that he had been caught at the dark entrance to an alley and
                        compelled to surrender a watch and a pocketbook containing $48. Two men had done the job, one of
                        them holding a large revolver close to his head.
                    "If a man gets the drop on you, the only thing to do is to keep cool and
                        make no resistance," said Doc' Home. "You should have crossed the
                        street when you saw the two men coming over toward you. That would have shown that you suspected
                        them, and they wouldn't have taken a chance in following you back across the street.
                        There's nearly always some way of outwitting a footpad if you only keep cool and use
                        your head. Three of them had me cornered  once, and
                        thought they were going to get $2,500, but I fooled them just the same."
                    "Was that in Chicago?" asked the dentist.
                    "No, that was in St. Louis, a long time agoshortly after the war. The
                        fellows who were after me knew that I had the money, and I had to do some maneuvering to beat
                        them. I had been there in St. Louis several weeks negotiating some business for New York
                        parties, and in that time I had become pretty well acquainted with the moneyed men around town,
                        who, at that time, were inclined to be rather sporty. I gambled occasionally, myself. One night
                        I went into the largest gambling house with a friend of mine and began to play roulette.
                        It's a game I seldom played, but I had a fancy to play it this night. Well, I lost $500
                        almost as fast as I could buy chips. Finally, I had five dollars' worth of white chips
                        left, and I pushed them over on the double-o, and, much to my surprise, the double-o came. That
                        was the turn of my luck. Within an hour I had $3,000 in front of me. I lost back to $2,500 and
                        cashed in. The dealer had to give me an order on the proprietor, and as I didn't want
                        to carry small bills, he gave me two $1,000 bills and  one $500 bill. He said he'd keep the money in the safe for me, but I was accustomed
                        to handling large sums, so I just took the bills and put them in my vest pocket. My friend and I
                        left the place. I walked with him to the corner, and then started for homeI then had apartments
                        in a private house.
                    "On my way home I had to pass through the wholesale district. It was a
                        business part of townvery dark and lonesome at night. But I had a revolver and never thought of
                        such a thing as being robbed. Well, sir, I hadn't walked a block from the corner at
                        which I had left my friend, until I saw two men ahead of me about half or two-thirds of a block.
                        I saw them pass under a lamp, and just as they did so they turned to see if I was coming. While
                        I was watching them closely, determined that they shouldn't catch me napping, I heard
                        footfalls behind me, and I knew that two men were following me. Then I began to appreciate my
                        situation. If I hurried, the men in front would stop me. If I turned back, the two men behind
                        would intercept me. They were so close to me that I could not escape into a side street except
                        by running, and then they would have a chance to 
                        shoot at me from behind. If there was to be any shooting done, I wanted to be faced around and
                        have a hand in it. You can understand my predicament. Their plan was, evidently, for the two men
                        in front to slacken their pace so that I would catch up with them, and the two men coming up
                        behind, they would have me surrounded, four men to one. They evidently believed they would have
                        a tough job or there wouldn't have been four men in it. I felt sure that I could kill
                        one or two of them if it came to shooting, but I didn't see much chance to escape if
                        four of them opened up on me.
                    "I had to do something mighty quick, and I made up my mind in a flash. I
                        reached in my inside pocket, where I always carried some stamped envelopes, and pulled one of
                        them out. I slipped the money into the envelope, and then, taking my card-case out of my pocket,
                        so as to have something on which to rest the letter, I felt for my pencil. It wasn't
                        there! I remembered that I had loaned it to a fellow in the gambling-room. Do you know what I
                        did? I stopped right under a street lamp that had a mail-box attached to it, and yelled to those
                        fellows in  front and asked: 'Either of you
                        got a pencil?' They stopped, and seemed to be in doubt about coming back, but they
                        evidently didn't want to arouse my suspicions, so one of them walked back and asked me
                        what I wanted. I told him I wanted a pencil. In the meantime the fellows who had been following
                        behind had stopped to see what was going to happen. They were probably surprised to see me call
                        this fellow back. As for him, he didn't know what to do. I told him I wanted to mail a
                        letter, and had forgotten part of the address and wanted to put it on, as it was important that
                        the letter should be in the mail the first thing in the morning. The explanation seemed to
                        satisfy him. He came up to me, handed me a stub of pencil, and I rested the letter on the
                        card-case, wrote my St. Louis address on it and dropped it into the mail-box. It was a big
                        chilled-steel box, put there for the convenience of some of the wholesale houses that sent out
                        quantities of mail.
                    "After I had mailed the letter I said to the man who had loaned me the
                        pencil: 'Are you going down street?' He mumbled something and I followed
                        along, and we  overtook his partner in front.
                        Presently the two men behind came up, and the five of us walked along in silence. It was a
                        darker part of the street, and I knew they were about ready to state their business, so I
                        stopped all of a sudden, and said: 'Gen'lemen, what can I do for
                        you?' They were surprised, but a big fellow, one of the two who had been behind, said:
                        'You'd better give us that $2,500 if you want to get home alive.' I
                        replied that I had no such sum. 'We know better,' the big fellow said.
                        'We saw you put it in your pocket when you left the gambling house,' and he
                        started to come at me. 'Hold on,' I said. 'Don't get
                        excited. It is true that I had $2,500, but I put it into an envelope and mailed it to myself at
                        that big box back there. One of your party was kind enough to give me the pencil with which I
                        wrote the address.' Then I said to them: 'Gentlemen, if you want that money,
                        go and get it out of the mail-box. If you think you can break into a steel box which is on a
                        corner, under a street lamp, and not get into trouble with the police, why, go ahead and try
                        it.' The big fellow cursed and began to threaten, but I said: 'It
                        won't do you any good to attack  me.
                        You're four to one, but I'll kill one of you before you can get me out of the
                        way.' Then one of the fellows said: 'What's the use, boys?
                        He's too slick for us.' The four simply turned and walked away, and I went on
                        home. Next morning when I reached the office, there was my letter with the $2,500 in it, lying
                        on the desk with the other mail."
                    "Well, I'll be dog-goned!" exclaimed the bicycle youth.
                        "Say, what would you have done if that fellow hadn't let you have the
                        pencil?"
                    "I'd have put in the envelope without any address on it. I could
                        have proved my property at the postoffice next day. My principal object in borrowing the pencil
                        was to throw those fellows off their guard and make them think I didn't suspect
                        anything,"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXII
                    THE STORY OF OKOBONEE
                    The man who brought upon Doc' Home the extreme humiliation of his life was
                        known at the Alfalfa Hotel as the hustler. 
                            THE HUSTLER.
                         In the United States of America a hustler is one who is busy, persistent, resourceful
                        and combative, usually that he may accumulate money. The term is frequently applied to one who
                        talks rapidly and deals with large figures. Hustling may be activity or the semblance of
                        activity.
                    The hustler at the hotel was a slender young man with reddish hair and a close
                        mustache. He wore a  business suit of gray. His black
                        derby hat was set on the back of the head.
                    When the members of the colony first noticed him he was sitting in the office adding
                        up figures in a memorandum book and whistling below his breath. His coat sleeves were pulled up,
                        so as to expose the full width of cuff. Presently he put away the memorandum book and took from
                        the inside pocket of his coat a loose handful of letters. He sorted them and finally found a
                        sheet on which was a pencil drawing. The members of the colony were watching him.
                    After the hustler had regarded the pencil drawing at arm's length he handed
                        it toward Doc' Home, and asked: "How would that look in three
                        colors?"
                    "Ehwhat?" exclaimed Doc', much astonished.
                    "The line at the top, 'Champion Tablets' blue, understand?
                        Same as the ketch-line below, 'Knocks the wind out of you.' I think
                        I'll have this framework in solid black, and use the red for the punchin' bag
                        and the man's head. I'm goin' to have a picture of a prize-fighter in
                        there, punchin' the bag. Good scheme, eh?"
                    "Well, I don't know that I exactly understand  this," said Doc', bringing out his spectacles so as
                        to make a critical study of the drawing.
                    "It's a little preparation, tablet form, that a certain party here
                        in Chicago has just got up. I've taken hold of it and I'm goin' to
                        push it for him. This is the name of it up here at the top, 'Champion
                        Tablets,' and at the bottom here we have the ketch-line, 'Knocks the wind out
                        of you.' "
                    "Well, what are they good for?" asked the lightning dentist, who
                        had arisen and was looking over Doc's shoulder.
                    "Just what it says there. To be taken after hearty eatingremoves that
                        feeling of fullness, understand? Good for children with the colic, dyspeptics, and any one who
                        has stomach-ache, cramps great thing! Picture of a prize-fighter, understand? That'll
                        ketch 'em. They'll stop to look at that. Then they read this,
                        'Champion Tablets,' and below, the ketch-line, 'Knocks the wind out
                        of you.' I'm goin' to have down here in this corner what the tablets
                        can cure."
                    "Will you have room in the corner?" asked the lush, who had been
                        listening in coldness and doubt.
                    
                    "Oh, yes; I'll get it in there in black," said the
                        hustler, who had not caught the sarcasm of the question. "That's
                        goin' to make a ketchy thing," and he took the drawing away from Doc'
                        and again held it at arm's length. "Get a twenty-four sheet stand of that and
                        it'll scream. I was around to-day figurin' on a hundred thousand single sheets
                        to put on the fences and boards. We're goin' to place a lot of newspaper
                        advertising, too, but we don't want to do that till we get enough stock to send samples
                        to all the druggists. We expect to reach every druggist in the United States within six weeks.
                        And say, gentlemen," putting the picture back into his pocket, "I've
                        got the greatest scheme for advertising this preparation that you ever heard of What do you
                        'think of advertising with elephants?"
                    "Elephants? How do you mean?" asked the lightning dentist.
                    "Why, I mean elephants. You understanda party gets up a new preparation and
                        wants to introduce it to the tradehe sends out his men to distribute samples. Sometimes they
                        send 'em out in open carriages with white horses. Sometimes they  dress 'em up and have 'em carry banners. All them
                        things is out of date. I've got the only scheme on earthsend 'em out
                        ridin' on top of elephants. Huh? How about that?"
                    "Well, where are you going to get your elephants?" asked the
                        dentist.
                    "I know where I can get six. That'd be enough to start
                        on.''
                    "Yes, I should think six elephants would be enough for a starter,"
                        remarked the lush. "Enough for a fair mess."
                    "Of course, I wouldn't buy 'em," said the
                        hustler. "I'd pay so much for the use of 'em. I put my man on top of
                        the elephant, understand? He's all togged outlong-tailed coat, plug hat and all thatgot
                        a rose in his buttonhole. He'll ride in one of these covered things, understand?
                        I'll have another man from the circusto sit up on the elephant's head and
                        carry this big banner, 'Champion Tablets.' Then I'll have another
                        fellowfrom the circusto lead the elephant. Go up to drug-store; this fellow on top carries a
                        kind of ladder and comes down, walks into the drug-store, presents his card, hands the druggist
                        a box of sample packages and walks out. He don't try to sell anything, understand? Let
                        the salesman  go around later on, understand? AH we
                        want to do at the start is to get people to talkin'. I'll tell you that if we
                        start out six elephants in Chicago we'll wake up the whole town. It'll cost
                        ten thousand before we take in a cent, but it'll do the work."
                    "I don't believe the city authorities would allow you to take
                        elephants through the street," suggested the book-agent, staring thoughtfully at the
                        hustler.
                    "They wouldn't, eh?" demanded the hustler. "Why
                        wouldn't they? Don't they let a circus parade, huh? If they stopped me, do you
                        know what I'd do? I'd apply for an injunction and take the case into the
                        courts. I'd get advertising out of it some way. They might stop me, but I'd
                        have everybody talking about 'Champion Tablets.' Do you know what I'm
                        goin' to do with one of them elephants? I know where I can find the man that painted
                        the white elephant for Barnum. I'm goin' to have him paint one of the
                        elephants red, white and blue in stripes, all except on the sides, and there I'm
                        goin' to have 'Champion Tablets' in big letters, black on white. What
                        do you think of that?"
                    "Don't you go to leading any red, white  and blue elephants past this hotel," said the lush,
                        "I saw a green one with pink legs go past one night and I didn't get over it
                        for a week."
                    "An elephant is not dangerous if he is properly handled," said
                        Doc' Home. "I remember distinctly "
                    Doubtless the company would have had an elephant-taming story had not the fire engine
                        come thundering around the corner. The colony went out to the street with the hope that there
                        would be a successful fire somewhere in the neighborhood, but not too near the Alfalfa. It was
                        disappointed.
                    Next night the hustler happened to be sitting near when Doc' told the
                        book-agent about the Indian herb treatment. For a week or more the book-agent had complained of
                        an aguish sensation. He sat near the steam-heater, with his coat collar turned up, and took
                        little part in the conversation, now and then interjecting something doleful in the way of
                        verse.
                    "I was just thinking," began Doc' Home, gazing at his
                        friend as if in solicitude, "that if all the ingredients were accessible I could
                        prepare you a mixture that would set you right in twenty-four hours. So far as I can  judge from your appearance you are suffering from
                        malaria, and possibly you are weakened by some nervous strain. I don't know where I
                        could get the herbs or I'd fix up something for you."
                    "Can't you get them at the drug-store?" asked the bicycle
                        youth.
                    "I'm afraid not. Some of the herbs are very rare. Did I ever tell
                        you of how I happened to learn the secret of that Indian remedy?"
                    The hustler, who had been pulling letters out of his pockets and then putting them
                        back again, squared around and listened alertly.
                    "It was on my first or second visit to this part of the country,"
                        said Doc'. "I did a great deal of overland traveling about that time, and up
                        near Waukegan, on one of my excursions, I met a very interesting old Indian doctor named
                        Okobonee, which means 'voice of the night,' as it was supposed that this
                        medicine man went into the forest at night and held communication with the Great Spirit. The
                        circumstances of our meeting were rather peculiar. I was on horseback and overtook him hobbling
                        through the woods. It seemed that he had climbed a tree in order to pluck some of the  green leaves growing at the extremities of the
                        branchesand, by the way, these leaves happen to be one of the ingredients of the remedy of which
                        I have spoken. He had climbed the tree and had crawled out to get 
                            "I WAS JUST THINKING."
                         these tender leaves, which were full of the vegetable juice, and in so doing he lost
                        his hold and fell to the ground, turning his ankle. He was quite lame when I overtook him. I
                        dismounted and assisted him to get on my horse, and we proceeded to his cabin, or tepee, as you
                        might call it. He was very grateful to me, and insisted that I should remain with him over
                        night. I did soin fact, I remained several days, for I found him a very interesting character.
                        He taught me how to collect and prepare the ingredients for this remedy, to which I have
                        referred. It seemed that this remedy had been famous among the Indians for years. I took away
                        quite a bundle of the herbs and  leaves with me, and
                        after I got back to Chicago I studied out their botanical names and made up a rough formula of
                        the compound. I used it with remarkable success, occasionally; but, as I say, I can't
                        prepare it unless I get out in the woods and find the ingredients. You can't buy
                        them."
                    "Say, Doc', you're foolish," said the hustler,
                        pulling up his coat sleeves. "See here! If you've got that remedy
                        you're a sucker not to do something with it, and I'll tell you why."
                    "Oh, I don't want to go into the patent-medicine
                        business," said Doc', smiling and shaking his head.
                    "Oh, rats! There's no need of throwin' away a good thing.
                        See here! Put it up in packagesunderstand? 'Home's Healing Herbs'one
                        big H to do for all three words. Then your picturethe goods would sell on the strength of your
                        picturefine-looking, gray-bearded old gentleman, with the autograph, 'Doc'
                        Home,' below."
                    "But I'm not really a doctor?"
                    "What's the difference? Here, I'll tell you
                        what'd be better stillyour picture on one side and the picture of the Indian on the
                        other sidewhat's his name?"
                    
                    "Okobonee," replied Doc', unwillingly.
                    " 'The secret of Okobonee for the succoring of humanity.'
                        What I'm stuck on is the story about this old Indian, and how you met him and learned
                        the secret. That'd make a great pamphlet. Do you think you could put us on to the
                        formula so we could make the stuff?"
                    "I suppose so," said Doc', with no enthusiasm.
                    "Well, that wouldn't be so important. We could fake up something,
                        but the name and story ketch me. 'Horne's Healing Herbs'
                        'The story of Okobonee's secret,' and all that kind of stuff. Say,
                        Doc', on the dead, I'd like to talk it over with you, and I'll make
                        you a proposition. We've got to have you in so we can use the big H and have somebody
                        to fasten the Indian story to. The more I think of that Indian story the better I like
                        it."
                    "I'm not seeking notoriety," said Doc'.
                        "If that was all I wanted I've had plenty of chances to figure in the
                        newspapers. You can go ahead and get up all the patent medicines you please, but I
                        can't have anything to do with it."
                    He spoke with such emphasis that the 
                        hustler said: "Oh, well, if you feel that way, all right, but just the same, I want to
                        talk to you again about this business."
                    Two days later, much to Doc's surprise, the hustler came with drawings and
                        typewritten literature intended to show how "Home's Healing Herbs"
                        could be advertised. There was a newspaper "ad" with a big H and a sample
                        label such as would be placed on each half-pound package of the remedy. The label had pictures
                        of Okobonee, with war bonnet and paint, and "Doctor Home" with long whiskers.
                        The hustler explained to Doc' and the others that the "jays" always
                        had more confidence in a doctor with long chin whiskers. When the drawings were passed around
                        the lush congratulated Doc' and predicted that he would make a fortune.
                    "I know I want a package as soon as you put any on the market,"
                        said the lush.
                    "Doc's picture alone is worth the price."
                    This irritated Doc', but encouraged the hustler, who read the advertising
                        circular which a literary friend had outlined under his direction:
                    Strange that the greatest secret of the nineteenth century should be guarded by one
                        man for nearly  fifty years! Strange that there
                        should be living to-day an eminent physician who has at command all the mystic knowledge
                        gathered from Nature by the medicine men of the aborigines! Stranger still that the priceless
                        remedy, the healing herbs of Okobonee, should be freely offered to suffering humanity by the
                        guardian of this secret! In the lonely forest, beneath the rustling trees, where every whisper
                        through the branches was as the voice of the Great Spirit, Okobonee, the healer and physician,
                        spent many hours in study of Nature's bountiful resources. He learned the manifold
                        secrets of vegetable creation, and out of his knowledge compounded a sovereign remedy more
                        potent than any drug or mineral poison that ever came from the laboratory of chemist. He used
                        this remedy among his own peoplethe noble red men of the forest. The cures were marvelous almost
                        miraculous. The fame of Okobonee spread from tribe to tribe, and all the sick and ailing from
                        far and near came to receive his ministrations. He waxed old in the service of humanity, but
                        still he continued in the study of Nature and Truth.
                    How fortunate that his knowledge did with him! What a blessing that the great boon
                        was not lost to mankind! It was surely nothing else than providence that directed Doctor Home,
                        the eminent physician, to visit the primeval forest in which Okobonee held silent commune with
                        the forces of Nature, and that greater and immutable force which the savage tribes held in vague
                        reverence as the Great Spirit. Imagine the meeting between these two great men. One, the silent
                        student of Nature, the primeval man of simple knowledge such as comes from a contemplation of
                        God's handiwork,  although lacking that
                        finer culture imparted by modern civilization; the other the representative of advanced thought;
                        of all that is modern and pro-have penetrated every department of human knowl edge.
                    
                        "THE HUSTLER CAME WITH DRAWINGS."
                    
                    Yielding to the solicitation of many friends, who know the unprecedented virtues of
                        the remedy of Okobonee, Dr. Calvin Horne, the renowned practitioner and master of material
                        medica, has consented to send the magic preparation into all parts of the world, that suffering
                        and disease-ridden humanity may take hope. Horne's Healing Herbs are put up in uniform
                        packages of one-half pound each, and the price is
                    "I'm in favor of makin' it two dollars," said the
                        buster. "The more you charge 'em, the better they think it is."
                    
                    "Oh, pshaw!" said Doc', with a smile and a slow shake of
                        the head.
                    "I can find plenty o' capital to back it," said the
                        hustler, putting the papers into his pocket.
                    "Let's not be in any hurry," said Doc'.
                    The lush winked at the dentist. They could see that Doc' was yielding.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIII
                    THE HUSTLER DISAPPEARS
                    The Okobonee Medicine Company, when organized to manufacture Horne's Healing
                        Herbs, was to receive the financial support of a capitalist whom the hustler was not at liberty
                        to designate until all the terms had been arranged. Doc' continued to listen to the
                        generous promises made by the hustler, but he never agreed to become a responsible partner in
                        the medicine company. At the same time he dallied and doubted, remembering that other men had
                        made large fortunes by the manufacture and sale of proprietary remedies. The hustler announced
                        that he had given up all plans in relation to Champion Tablets and was devoting his entire time
                        to "interesting" the capital which was to enable him to put a full-page
                        advertisement in every metropolitan newspaper in the United States. His projects were large but
                        indefinite, and his talk, when well prolonged, had a hollow sound. One day, when he sought to
                        borrow  two dollars, Doc' lost faith in him
                        and said: "My dear sir, it occurs to me that there is no need of any further talk
                        regarding this medicine enterprise. As you know, I have permitted you to outline your plans to
                        me, and have hesitated to put a final and definite veto to your suggestions because you have
                        seemed so much in earnest and have suggested to me that your financial welfare depended on my
                        willingness to cooperate with yon. I take it that you are without capital. So far as I am
                        concerned, I have none which is free for investment at this time. Putting aside the rather vague
                        generalities in which we have dealt up to this time, I ask you the direct question, have you the
                        money to carry out this project?"
                    "I hope to get it," replied the hustler. "I was
                        talkin' to a party yesterday."
                    The hustler seemed almost discouraged, but he brightened when Doc' said:
                        "In regard to the loan, I think I can let you have the amount you mention. I feel under
                        some obligations to you, but as this whole enterprise is yours I can't see why I should
                        be involved in it. So count me out."
                    "Do you mean it?"
                    
                    "Absolutely."
                    "I'd like to use your picture and that story."
                    "Use what you please, so that you omit the name of Calvin Home."
                    "Just as you say, Doc'. I'll hand you this two some
                        time,'' putting the money into his pocket.
                    Next day he had gone from the hotel, owing Ike Francis six dollars for room rent.
                    The freckled boy then announced that he had "sized" the hustler
                        fora "pan-handler" from the very start.
                    Doc' felt relieved that the man had gone and taken his temptations with him.
                        The riddance was worth two dollars.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIV
                    DOC' IS ARRESTED
                    One evening in November,, two days after the hustler disappeared, and only one day
                        before the dentist found Miss Mil-bury, Calvin Home, sitting-in the office of the Alfalfa
                        European Hotel and talking Shakespeare with the book-agent, was arrested on a criminal warrant
                        charging him with obtaining money under false pretenses.
                    "Yes, sir, my name is Home," he answered, looking Up at the large
                        man who interrupted the talk.
                    "I'm an officer," said this plain-clothes man, lifting his
                        coat to show a heavy star which was on the vest, away back under the 
                            "TALKING SHAKESPEARE."
                        
                         armhole. "I got a warrant for you. Do you
                        know about it?"
                    "Do I what do you mean, sir?" demanded Doc', staring hard
                        and throwing away his cigar.
                    "I think there must be some mistake," said the book-agent.
                        "This is Doctor Home."
                    "Colvin Home," read the officer, looking at the warrant.
                    "Calvin," corrected Doc'.
                    "You're the man, all right," said the officer.
                        "Don't try none o' your funny business with me. I been
                        workin' on the case saw you here to-day, and had you pointed out to me."
                    "What in God's name is the meaning of all this?" asked
                        Doc', taking hold of the book-agent's arm.
                    "I can read this if you want to hear it," said the officer.
                        "The charge is obtainin' money."
                    "This is all Greek to me," said Doc'.
                        "It's simply a mistake that's all."
                    "Who swore out the warrant?" asked the book-agent.
                    He and Doc' had arisen and stood facing the big man in plain clothes, who
                        gave the  book-agent one condemning glance, which
                        meant, "As if both of you didn't know!" and then he replied:
                        "A man named Park-man."
                    "I never heard of him," said Doc'.
                    "I s'pose you never heard of a fake medicine company, neither did
                        you?" asked the officer. "You can tell the judge all about it in the
                        morning."
                    "Medicine company! Has that fellow involved me in one of his rascally
                        schemes? Officer, do you mean to say that I, Calvin Home, am arrested on a charge of obtaining
                        money under false pretenses? I'll have you understand, sir, that I never touched a
                        penny of soiled money in my life."
                    "Say, I ain't tryin' this case, you know," said
                        the officer. "You and this fellow was pardners, wasn't you?"
                    "No, sir!"
                    "What's the matter, Doc'?" asked the freckled
                        boy, pushing a curious transient out of the way.
                    "It appears, my boy, that I am under arrest," said Doc',
                        who held a handkerchief in his trembling hand and now wiped his face with it.
                    "Pinched?"
                    
                    "It's the fault of that scoundrel who wanted to get Doc'
                        into the medicine company," said the book-agent. "He's the man you
                        want to arrest," he added, turning to the officer. "Where is he?"
                    "How do I know?" Then to Doc': "Are you ready to
                        go with me?"
                    "Go with you?" asked Doc'. "Go where?"
                    "Where do people usually go when they're arrested? Over to the
                        station-house."
                    "I warn you, sir, I warn you," said Doc', with upraised
                        and threatening forefinger. "This arrest is a mistake, sira hideous outrage, my man,
                        and some one will suffer for it."
                    "Oh, that's all right," said the officer, with a tolerant
                        grin. "If you've got any friends you can give bail to-night and square the
                        whole thing in the morning. There's no need of gettin' worked up about
                        it."
                    "Indeed!"
                    "I can see that the officer isn't to blame," said the
                        book-agent. "He is simply doing his duty. I dare say you can arrange the matter of bail
                        as soon as you get over there."
                    "You can get bailed out along about midnight,"  said the plain-clothes man. "The judge comes down about that
                        time. Mebbe you can get him sooner if you know him."
                    "And in the meantime, sir?"
                    "Well, you ain't any better than anybody else, are you? Do you know
                        the captain?"
                    "Do you mean, sir, that Ithat after being arrested on some preposterous
                        charge I may be thrown into a locked up?"
                    "Well, I don't know where else you could be put."
                    "My God!"
                    Doc' sank back into his chair, breathing loudly. The plain-clothes man
                        seemed surprised that any one should be so agitated over the everyday ceremony of an arrest. The
                        book-agent laid his hand on Doc's shoulder and recited, solemnly:
                    "Right forever on the scaffold, Wrong forever on the throe."
                    The freckled boy had hurried to the restaurant and given the alarm to the dentist and
                        the lush, who were dividing a sirloin steak.
                    All three came in the front door with a run and a slam, the dentist being the first
                        to reach Doc'.
                    
                    "What does this mean, Doc'?" he demanded.
                    "Idon't know," replied Doc', slowly lifting his
                        head. Tears were in his eyes.
                    The book-agent explained.
                    "You don't mean to say that you've arrested him?"
                        demanded the dentist, turning to the officer.
                    "What if I have?" asked the plain-clothes man.
                    "Well, if you have, it's a confounded shame!" said the
                        dentist, lifting his voice.
                    "Smash him!" said the freckled boy, in a disguised voice, with his
                        hand over his mouth.
                    The officer turned quickly to make trouble.
                    "Shut up!" ordered the lush, and he stepped up to take command of
                        the situation. "Do I understand, officer, that you have a warrant for Mr.
                        Home?"
                    "I've served the warrant, and I don't know who you
                        arecuttin' in here."
                    "I am simply one of his friends, that's all. Let's not
                        lose our tempers. I guess you know as well as any of us that Mr. Home here can give any bond up
                        to a million dollars if you allow him time to notify his  friends. It won't be necessary for him to go to the station at all,
                        will it?"
                    "Of course it will!" replied the officer, amazed.
                    "If we can bring to you here, within an hour, messages from the mayor and
                        the chief to guarantee his appearance at any time or place, then will it be necessary for him to
                        go?"
                    "He can't give no bond unless he goes to the station,"
                        said the plain-clothes man, who began to look at Doc' with a new interest.
                    "Hurry out and get me four messenger boysquick!" said the lush to
                        the freckled boy. "What magistrate is on duty to-night?"
                    "Ramsay, I think."
                    "He and Mr. Home are brother members of the Loyal Legion. Great heavens!
                        Some one is going to sweat for this to-morrow." Then to the other members of the
                        colony: "It's a good thing the war-rant got into the hands of a man who knows
                        how to be decent in a case of this kind.'' He put his hand on Doc's
                        shoulder and said, consolingly: "We'll simply walk over to the
                        captain's office and sit there until we can arrange the bond. If there's any
                        delay  we'll have Judge Thompson, Col.
                        Munster and Alec Moody there by ten o'clock."
                    He led the plain-clothes man to one side and whispered to him:
                        "Doc', there, is Alec Moody's cousin."
                    Alec Moody was the king of criminal lawyers, a millionaire, a power at the city hall.
                        Judge Thompson had been "mentioned" as a candidate for mayor. Col. Munster was
                        a broker and the treasurer of the Policemen's Benevolent Association.
                    "One of you speak to Cap', and I think he'll let him stay
                        right in the office," said the plain-clothes man. "It'd be a dirty
                        shame to throw him downstairs. He might get in with a bum or a Chinaman, or any
                        one.''
                    "Why, it would be dreadfula man of his age!" said the lush.
                        "He's nearly eighty years old. He doesn't look it, but
                        that's what he is. When we walk over to the station you won't take hold of
                        him, or anything like that?"
                    "I guess it ain't necessary."
                    "And let me walk along with him. You won't lose anything by
                        treating him well. This whole thing is a put-up job."
                    "He seems to be a quiet old guydon't look to me like a
                        crook."
                    
                    "I'd like to get hold of the idiot that swore out this
                        warrant.''
                    "I think we'd better go over to the station," said the
                        plain-clothes man. "I've got to let 'em know I served the
                        warrant."
                    "Just as soon as I arrange for those messages."
                    The members of the colony had listened in numb admiration to the masterful lying of
                        the lush, and none ventured to assist. The freckled boy came with two messengers. The lush took
                        him over to the counter and gave whispered instructions to hold the boys there until
                        Doc' had gone. Then he walked up to Doc' and said: "We'll go
                        over there and arrange this business. It won't take long."
                    Doc' arose, white, his face suddenly drawn with the thinness of age, and
                        said: "If I am to be incarcerated, I protest with"
                    "Nothing of the kind," said the lush, and he laughed as he took
                        hold of Doc's arm. "A mere formality."
                    He went ahead, with Doc' by his side. The plain-clothes man followed, with
                        the dentist for his mate. The book-agent lumbered behind. As they passed out to the  street they heard the freckled boy explaining the
                        incident to a group of awed transients and saying: "If ever I get a crack at that
                        lobster he'll have to take a trip layin' down, feet first."
                    The five, on their way to the station, fought the cold wind along a narrow street
                        between high buildings, dark and forbidding. As they came to the iron steps of the station-house
                        (a square brick building on a corner), the lush hurried in ahead of the others and the
                        plain-clothes man moved up to catch step with Doc'.
                    It was a bare, rectangular room, with two iron posts to support the ceiling. At one
                        end, in a recess shut off by a wire screen, sat a large man in his shirt sleeves. He had gray
                        hair and mustache, and was reading an evening paper through a pair of steel-bowed spectacles. An
                        overhead lamp threw a glare about him. This man was the desk sergeant. From a room behind the
                        recess came the buzz of muffled telephones.
                    The lush was standing by an open door marked "Captain," and he
                        beckoned to Doc', saying: "Step right in here until we can get the papers made
                        out." At this the  desk sergeant peered out
                        from behind the screen. The plain-clothes man went over to the window and explained to him.
                    One gas jet was burning low in the captain's room. Doc' sat in a
                        broad arm-chair and looked at the floor. Both the dentist and the book-agent went in with him,
                        but they sat helpless, because they could not say anything to suit the occasion. The lush was
                        pleading with the desk sergeant, who said that the judge always came between eleven
                        o'clock and midnight, and couldn't and wouldn't be sent for any
                        sooner.
                    The freckled boy arrived with a prepared speech, enumerating the influential
                        politicians who had been notified and who might appear at any moment. The desk sergeant listened
                        with a grin, suggestive of doubt. In order to get rid of this element of danger, the lush sent
                        the boy to the magistrate's residence far out on the south side, as he had learned that
                        the magistrate was attending a political club dinner down-town.
                    It meant a wait. The lush buttoned his overcoat and went out into the street. He
                        walked north until he came to a place where  drinks
                        were fifteen cents each, and there he drank two high allowances of whisky.
                    Back at the station a whispering reporter led him into a dim corner and wanted to
                        know something about the man Horne, who 
                            THE MAGISTRATE.
                         had been arrested. The lush told the reporter to go to the devil and suggested that he
                        would thrash any person who put anything about Doc' into any newspaper.
                    He went into the captain's office and began to outline to Doc' his
                        plan for revenge. The dentist begged him to remain quiet. He went out and took another drink.
                    At last the magistrate came, and the prisoners who had been waiting in the basement
                        cells were brought up and stood in a line across the big roommen sleepy drunk;  men with bruised faces; chalky women with their hats
                        pulled forward, who showed a weary and smiling contempt for this familiar process of taxation.
                        Doc' did not come out until the others had signed their names and paid their dollars.
                        Only those who could pay the fees and get the guarantee of a bondsman were released. As no
                        member of the colony was a property owner, the lush had found a negro who made a business of
                        signing bonds. Doc' came out with his mournful escort, and wrote his name on a paper
                        laid before him. The dentist paid a dollar to the magistrate and another to the negro. The
                        police reporter stood by and watched through half-closed eyes. He was smoking a bulldog pipe.
                    "Nine o'clock in the morning," said the desk sergeant,
                        blotting the signatures.
                    "Come on, Doc'," said the lush.
                    Doc' followed him without giving sign that he had heard. As they moved
                        toward the door the freckled boy entered, breathing heavily.
                    "Icouldn't findhis nobs," he said. "You fixed it,
                        did you?"
                    "Yesall right," replied the dentist, sharply.
                    
                    As soon as they were outside the lush gave a long groan of relief and then turned to
                        look up at the station-house.
                    "Oh, temple of justice!" he said, removing his hat.
                        "Hooray for the palladium of our liberties! All I want to do is to smash one
                        o' those windows. I've had five drinks, and I'm going to have
                        fifty-five more."
                    He walked out into the street to find something to throw at the window. The dentist
                        and the freckled boy had to pull at him to induce him to follow Doc' and the
                        book-agent.
                    Doc' did not seem to observe that the lush had broken his promise. He did
                        not speak during the walk back to the hotel.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXV
                    THE TRIAL
                    The members of the colony saw a mention of the arrest in the morning-papers, and
                        hoped that Doc' would overlook it.
                    The dentist went to Doc's room at seven o'clock and the old man was
                        not there. He had gone for a walk. The lush and the freckled boy were at the bar early. They had
                        assisted Steve in closing it the night before.
                    The dentist took breakfast with the book-agent at the restaurant, and when they came
                        back into the hotel Doc' was sitting there reading his favorite newspaper, now his
                        enemy.
                    The item was much the same in all the morning papers. The colony concluded that it
                        had been sent out in duplicate by a news bureau.
                    A FAKE MEDICINE COMPANY.
                    TWO SMOOTH CITIZENS WHO GOT THE BEST OF GULLIBLE BUSINESS MEN.
                    Calvin Horne, otherwise known as "Doc" Horne, was arrested at the
                        Alfalfa Hotel last evening by Detective Clancy, of central detail, charged with  having obtained money under false pretenses. The
                        warrant was sworn out by Oscar Parkman, of the printing house of Parkman, Benedict and Blair,
                        who alleges that other business houses have been victimized as well. It is said that Horne and a
                        partner named Jackson H. Smith, both of whom have been living at the Alfalfa Hotel, claimed to
                        be at the head of a concern called The Okobonee Medicine Company, with a capital of $100,000 and
                        the backing of several substantial citizens. "Doctor" Home posed as the
                        president of the company and Smith was supposed to be secretary and treasurer. They represented
                        to several business houses that the "company" had rented an entire floor in
                        the new Gunnison building and was about to do extensive advertising. So plausible were the
                        claims made by the duo that Mr. Parkman advanced $25 in cash and gave credit for $18 worth of
                        printing. On Monday he became suspicious and started an investigation which developed the fact
                        that the prominent "stock-holders" knew nothing about the "Okobonee
                        Medicine Company." Smith cannot be found by the police and it is supposed that he has
                        left the city. Home, who is about 60 years old and is said to hold a minor position in the
                        government building, professed surprise and indignation when taken into custody last evening. He
                        will have a preliminary hearing before Justice Ramsay this morning.
                    "Gentlemen, have you seen this infamous publication?" asked
                        Doc', as he held the paper toward them. His eyes were blood-shot, and he had the pallor
                        of a sick man, the  corners of his mouth being drawn
                        downward as if by physical suffering. He spoke quietly.
                    "'Be thou as chaste as ice, as pure as snow, thou shalt not escape
                        calumny,' "quoted the book-agent.
                    "I wouldn't worry about that, Doc'," said the
                        dentist. "They'll have to take every word of it back. Have you been to
                        break-fast?"
                    "Breakfast?no. What time is it?"
                    "We'll start over there in about a half an hour. I was wondering if
                        you wanted a lawyer.''
                    "What have I done that I should require a lawyer?"
                    "Nothing, only I thought"
                    "I will not dignify this contemptible attack by offering a defense. Let the
                        accusation fall of its own rottenness. Besides, the plot has succeeded. I am in the dock. The
                        taint has been put on me. That's all the craven hound wanted, whoever he is. Smith was
                        a puppetnothing more. I will be in my room when you gentlemen are ready to
                        go.''
                    He arose, pushing on the arms of the chair to lift himself, and walked over to the
                        elevator.
                    
                    The lush and the freckled boy came out from the bar-room and saw him. They were
                        flushed and odorous.
                    "That thing'll be straightened out in the papers,
                        Doc'," said the freckled boy, going over to him. "We won't
                        stand for nothin' like that. They'll put in a piece an' get the whole
                        thing right or we'll start somethin'. You see if we
                        don't.''
                    "You do nothing of the kind," said Doc", without looking
                        at him. He stepped into the elevator and rode upward.
                    The colony held an indignation meeting full of threats and vituperation. The bicycle
                        salesman, who had been absent the night before, came in to hear the account of the
                        lush's strategy to save Doc' from a cell.
                    "Well, they can't prove anything against Doc', do you
                        s'pose?" asked the bicycle youth.
                    This was the first time that any one had raised a question as to the outcome of the
                        trial. The book-agent quoted, this time from Doc'. He said: "The charge will
                        fall of its own rottenness."
                    Five members of the colony followed Doc' out of the hotel and over to the
                        police station. Doc' was calmer than he had been the  night before, and the freckled boy remarked. "He's got his
                        nerve with him all right, all right."
                    In the big room at the station were patrolmen in uniform, unbuttoned and uncombed
                            
                            "THE CHARGE WIL FALL."
                         lawyers smoking ragged cigars, fat negro women without hats, puffy men in striped
                        clothes, drooping men in soiled garments and a few plain-clothes men, including Clancy, who did
                        not seem pleased to see the lush again.
                    The colony pushed through the waiting room and into the court room, which was a dusky
                        place, the only light from the outside filtering in through two windows that opened on an alley.
                        Crowded on the parallel benches which faced the magistrate's high seat were men in
                        sun-bleached clothes who smelled of smoke and drink, glistening  negroes, veiled women, gaping and dirty boys without collars, giggling women
                        with flowery hats, and a few women tightly veiled. Placid Chinamen were here, and restless
                        Italians and the usual filling of curious loafers. Doc' and his companions slid into a
                        bench near the back wall. A bailiff was pushing at the people who crowded forward in the main
                        aisle and noisily commanded every one to "Go on now! Get seats!"
                    The trials began with twenty men and women crowding and pushing one another inside of
                        the railing. The murmur of talk and the noise of shuffling feet prevented the people on the
                        benches from hearing any of the talk between the magistrate and those who were jostling about in
                        front of him. Now and then the clerk bawled out the names of defendants, some of whom were
                        waiting on the benches and others of whom were being brought up from below and shoved into the
                        keeping of the officers who had arrested them. After a defendant had been discharged he had to
                        fight his way out of the compact group in front of the court. The defendant found guilty was
                        dragged out of the crowd by a policeman and led over to the clerk's cage to pay his
                        fine. If  he could not pay he was led down the
                        stair-way into the basement, to await the afternoon wagon to the bridewell.
                    Justice moved with scorching speed here. Sixty cases had been disposed ofdrunkenness,
                        petty thievery, assault, vagrancy, opium smoking, disorderly conductbefore the clerk shouted:
                        "Calvin Home, Oscar Parkman, Officer Clancy!"
                    "Come on, boys," said the lush. "Stick to him."
                    They followed him up the aisle and pushed behind him, through the gate and up to the
                        high desk protecting the court.
                    "Are the parties here?" asked the justice.
                        "Where'slet's seeWhere's Home?"
                    "I am he," said Doc', who had been blocked by a large man
                        with red hair.
                    "Well, get up here closer, where we can take a look at you. Let him past you
                        there. (This to the red-headed man.) What are you waiting here for? Your case is over. Get out
                        and make room for some of these other people. Where's Parkman?"
                    "Here!" said a small man, with close side whiskers of brown and a
                        pair of concave eye-glasses. The members of the colony tiptoed to get a look at the man.
                    
                    Doc' said, "Not guilty."
                    "And who are all these?" demanded the court, frowning at the five
                        who were close behind Doc'.
                    "We are witnesses, your honor," said the lush. "That is,
                        if you need us, which I don't think you will.''
                    "I'll decide as to that," said the court. "Be
                        sworn."
                    A mumbling oath was recited by a busy clerk. The court looked at the plain-clothes
                        man and asked: "What do you know about the case, Clancy?"
                    "I served the warrant, your honor. All I know is that this man"
                        (indicating Doc') "and the fellow Smith that got the money from Mr. Parkman
                        here lived together at that hotel down there, and had got up some kind of a company together,
                        and
                    "I deny it!" said Doc'.
                    "We'll hear from you later," said the court, addressing
                        Doc'. Then to Mr. Parkman: "Did this man get any property from you on false
                        pretenses? Tell your story, and cut it short."
                    "I want to show you these," began the complainant, taking two cards
                        from his pocket and handing them to the court.
                    
                    "Those are the business cards of the fraudulent concern. This man claimed to
                        be the president of the company.''
                    "He didn't," growled the freckled boy, from his place of
                        shelter behind the dentist.
                    "You fellows keep still," said the court, turning to Doc's
                        witnesses.
                    "Ask this man if he ever saw me before," said Doc', who
                        had turned a stern and unfaltering gaze on Parkman.
                    "Is this the man who got the money?" asked the court.
                    "His partner got it."
                    "You told me when you swore out the warrant that this man had got money and
                        merchandise from you under false pretenses," said the court.
                    "Well, he did get it, indirectly."
                    "How do you know he did?"
                    "Because he and Smith were partners. The card there shows that this man was
                        president of the company.''
                    "That's no proof. Are you sure they were in partnership?"
                    "They lived together at this hotel and hatched up this whole scheme. I can
                        prove it."
                    "Yes, you can!" said the lush.
                    
                    "'' Hush,'' said Doc'.
                        '' Let this gentleman concludeor perhaps he has concluded."
                    "Did you ever see this man before?" asked the court, addressing
                        Parkman.
                    "Wellno, but his partner, Smith"
                    "Provethatpartnership," said Doc', with measured slowness,
                        as he raised his fist and brought it down on the desk in front of him. "Your honor, I
                        have no interest in this hearing further than to ascertain whether this attack on me was
                        prompted by a malicious desire to smirch my reputation or was due to the asinine stupidity of
                        this person on my left."
                    "Give it to him, Doc'," said the freckled boy, speaking
                        over the dentist's shoulder.
                    "For the first time in my life I stand in a dock to answer a criminal
                        charge," said Doc', turning to the right and then to the left, addressing not
                        only the court, but the loitering policemen and reporters. "What is the basis for this
                        charge? This man had been told that I was in partnership with a scoundrel to whom he had loaned
                        money."
                    "Smith told me," said the complainant, squinting at the court
                        through his glasses.
                    "You haven't got any case," said the  court, shaking his head slowly, as if he were sorry to be compelled
                        to say it.
                    "Well, I have good reasons for thinking they were in cahoots," said
                        Parkman, persistently.
                    "That's all," said the court, with decision.
                        "Dismissed!"
                    All turned to move out of the pen and were elbowing for the gate when Parkman turned
                        and exclaimed: "Your honor! Your honor!"
                    "Well, what is it?"
                    "This man here (pointing at the freckled boy) has just now threatened me. He
                        said he'd poke me in the eye when we got outside.''
                    "My goodness, you believe everything people tell you, don't
                        you?" asked the lush, grinning at Parkman.
                    "Say, your honor, I never spoke to him at all," said the freckled
                        boy. "I don't want nothin' to do with him."
                    "Why, this boy wouldn't harm a fly," said the lush.
                        "All we're goin' to do to Mr. Parkman is sue him for fifty thousand
                        for false arrest.''
                    "If he pokes you in the eye, you swear out a warrant for him," said
                        the court to Parkman.
                    
                    Doc' had walked ahead with the dentist, the book-agent and the bicycle
                        salesman. The salesman had offended Doc' by trying 
                            "THE BICYCLE SALESMAN."
                         to shake hands and bubble his congratulations.
                    "I trust you did not admit the possibility of any other result,"
                        said Doc'. "I desire no congratulations."
                    "Oh!" said the salesman.
                    "Wait a minute!" shouted the freckled boy, as he followed them out
                        of the station. "Let's hang around here till that guy comes out. Say,
                        he's scared stiff."
                    "He is beneath our contempt," said Doc'. "Come,
                        gentlemen," and he led the way with the book-agent. The dentist and the bicycle
                        salesman hurried to their places of employment. The lush and the freckled boy went away
                        together. They had con-ducted themselves as chums ever since Doc's arrest, forgetting
                        their past differencs  in the strenuous effort to
                        save Doc' and punish his persecutors. The freckled boy had an intermittent job as
                        collector for a laundry, but he had not displayed any money since the catastrophe at the race
                        track. It was believed in the colony that the lush paid the expenses of the all-day and
                        all-night celebration which followed the triumphant acquittal.
                    The newspapers failed to mention the fact that Doc' had been cleared of the
                        charge against him. Their silence was thought to be unjust, inasmuch as they had told of the
                        arrest, so the book-agent sent a long letter to each of the dailies demanding fair play, but the
                        letter was not printed, and the freckled boy always insisted that Parkman had "stacked
                        the cards."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVI
                    UNITED
                    The dentist came into the hotel at 5 p. m., and found Ike Francis behind the counter,
                        asleep.
                    "Where's Doc'?" he asked, in a loud voice.
                    Mr. Francis looked up and drowsily recognized the speaker.
                    "In his roomain't been out since noon," he replied.
                    The dentist had vague fears as he ran up the stairway. He was relieved to find
                        Doc' sitting tinder the double gas-light, reading a book, which he threw on the bed
                        when the dentist spoke to him.
                    "Doc', what do you think?"
                    "I am in no condition to think. The occurrences of the last twenty-four
                        hours have unnerved me."
                    "Well, I met her to-day."
                    "Her?"
                    "Miss Milburyran right into her on
                    
                    State Street. And say, she was looking fine. And what do you think, Doc'?
                        She seems to be at least ten pounds lighter than she was last spring."
                    "Indeed!"
                    "I went right up to her. I don't know whybut I couldn't
                        help it. She didn't know how to treat me at first. She was polite, butwell, not very
                        cordial. She wanted to know why I never answered her letter. Do you know what I did? I told her
                        I never received it. I didn't know any other way out of it."
                    "I told you to answer that letter."
                    "She asked about you too, Doc'."
                    Doc' stroked his chin-beard and glanced hesitatingly at the dentist.
                    "Do you thinkdid she say anything about that infamous publication?"
                    "No, of course not. Why, nobody will see that."
                    "Every friend I have in the city will see it. They won't believe
                        it, but the disgrace is there, my dear sirthe fact that I have stood in the dock. If this had
                        happened thirty years ago I would have shot Parkman dead as he stood there in that court
                        room."
                    
                    "Doc', I'm going out there to call to-night."
                    Doc' shifted in his chair and seemed ill at ease under the beaming smile of
                        the dentist.
                    "I have thought several times that I would recall to your attention a little
                        conversation we had away last summer," he said. "You seemed to attach
                        considerable significance to it at the time. I told you that Miss Milbury might, possibly, when
                        she became quite old, say fifty or over, be somewhat stoutat any rate, stouter than she is at
                        present. If my memory serves me, I made no prediction, but simply said, in an off-hand way, that
                        she might become heavier in time. If you find that you still have a fondness for this admirable
                        and most talented young lady, I hope to God that nothing I said to you, in jest, at that time,
                        will deter you from paying her your attentions. If you search through the world from now until
                        doomsday, I don't believe you'll ever find a woman more qualified in every
                        particular to become the wife of a man who has all the noble qualities which are revealed in
                        you."
                    "Put her there, Doc'," said the dentist, extending his
                        hand. His chin trembled and  he blinked as he took
                        hold of the out-stretched hand.
                    "I'm glad you feel that way. You're right, too.
                        She's the finest girl I ever met. Will you go out there with me again some
                        night?"
                    Doc' shook his head slowly.
                    "Not after what has happened," he said. "A blemish has
                        been put on my reputation. I have been held up to the public gaze as a swindler and confidence
                        man. I have no desire to compromise two good women by going into their home as a guest. If they
                        have not heard what has happened, they will hear it soon enough. They may not believe the
                        slander, but as long as I am under this cloud, I have no desire to force myself on comparative
                        strangers. I would prove an embarrassment to you, perhaps a hindrance to your plans. No, sir; I
                        cannot go."
                    Thereafter he consistently refused to call on the Milburys, although the dentist went
                        every evening.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVII
                    DOC' GOES AWAY
                    One day in December Doc' received a telegram announcing the death of a
                        sister in an Ohio town. He went to the funeral, and was absent from the hotel for six days.
                        After he returned he confided to the dentist that he had come into about $15,000 of his
                        sister's estate. At first the dentist thought there might be some mistake, but
                        Doc' had letters from the lawyers, and he showed a copy of the will.
                    This news caused rejoicing at the hotel, and Doc' was congratulated by all
                        members of the colony. He, alone, was unmoved by his good fortune. He said he had made fortunes
                        and lost fortunes and given away fortunes all his life, and he didn't imagine that any
                        acquisition of wealth meant very much to a man of his age and temperament.
                    Ever since the arrest and the trial, Doc' had shown a moody indifference to
                        all events around him. The dentist's love affair was now off his conscience. The first
                        attempt  to reform the lush having failed,
                        Doc' did not renew the effort. As he sat with the 
                            "THE LEDGES OF THE TOWN WERE WHITE."
                         evening group he was courteous and tolerant, even when the freckled boy offered his
                        heathen dogmas, but he seldom told a story, and never showed a lively interest in one that was
                        being told. He who had dominated the company and shown himself  the cheering influence became a restraint on the good-fellowship.
                    The colony had a theory which accounted for this change in him. He was supposed to be
                        brooding over the disgrace of the arrest. He thought that every one knew of his humiliation, and
                        that some who knew of it doubted his innocence. He had been the commanding figure at the Alfalfa
                        Hotel, but now he felt that he had no right to assume a superiority, having stood in the dock
                        charged with a prison offense. They dared not attempt to drag him out of his melancholy by any
                        argument or assurance, because not one of them ever spoke of the hustler or Parkman, or the two
                        times at the station. But when the money came, the dentist, believing that a change of scene and
                        the diversions of travel might serve to effect a cure, suggested that Doc' ought to
                        take a vacation.
                    Every member of the colony seconded the suggestion, and Doc', brightening
                        under their good wishes, decided to take that long-postponed trip to Europe.
                    Time and time again he had intended to go to Europe. Once he had bought his ticket
                        and started to the steamer, when he  received a
                        telegram from Detroit to the effect that Col. Pounds, a friend from boy-hood, was involved in a
                        business smash-up, and needed an adviser.
                    This time he would go. He could arrange his business affairs so that they would be
                        safe in the hands of an attorney. He would go to Europe and perhaps find some of the gentlemen
                        who had been connected with the foreign legations during Grant's two terms. While in
                        Europe he could brush up his French and German, both of which he had spoken with considerable
                        fluency during his residence in Washington.
                    As soon as he had determined to go, he was in a hurry to get away. The cold weather
                        had come and the ledges of the town were white with clinging snow. He was to take a winter boat
                        and go direct to Italy, and one of the first men to be hunted up in Rome would be Flanders, who
                        once had a studio in Brooklyn.
                    On the evening before his departure Doc' was the guest of honor at a little
                        dinner organized by the dentist, and served in the rear apartment of the restaurant which the
                        Alfalfa colony patronized. The book-agent, the lush, the freckled boy, the bicycle salesman,  and Mr. Ike Francis, proprietor, sat at the table.
                        The lush brought with him the material which he regarded as necessary to the drinking of a
                        farewell toast. Doc' was himself again, and recalled that this very evening happened to
                        be the anniversary of a farewell dinner given him by several citizens of Baton Rouge, the year
                        before Buchanan ran.
                    Doc' was in Europe nine months recovering his health and self-respect. When
                        he came back to Chicago in the autumn, on his way to Cincinnati to visit a cousin who was
                        commonly mistaken for Chauncey M. Depew, he wished to go to the Alfalfa European Hotel, but
                        there was no such hotel in Chicago. The old home and the lower houses that propped it up on each
                        side had been torn away to make room for a twelve-story office building with four elevators, and
                        every floor busily inhabited.
                    The dentist and his wife were living at a family hotel on the south side.
                    In the scattering of the colony the lush had found refuge on the north side. He
                        continued to have desk-room with a real estate firm, and his habits were somewhat  improved, according to what the dentist said to
                        Doc', as he never took a drink unless he felt that he needed it.
                    The bicycle salesman had disappeared.
                    The book-agent had re-married, and was managing his wife's lecture tour
                        throughout the corn states.
                    Ike Francis had gone back to a country town to manage a hotel that was not in danger
                        of being torn down.
                    The freckled boy, by the last report reaching the dentist, was traveling with a
                        circus as a purveyor of lemonade and a "gentlemanly agent" who sold concert
                        tickets.
                    THE END.
                
            
        
    
