
     ----CITATION---- 
        Ade, George, 1866-1944. In Babel: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2442
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                IN BABEL
                
            
            
            
                
                    IN BABEL
                    STORIES OF CHICAGO
                
                By GEORGE ADE
                
                    NEW YORK
                    McCLURE, PHILLIPS & CO.
                    1903
                
            
            
            
                COPYRIGHT, 1903, BY
                     McCLURE, PHILLIPS & CO.
                Published, September, 1903
            
            
            
                PREFACE
                These little stories and sketches have been rewritten from certain daily
                    contributions to the Chicago Record, now the Chicago Record-Herald. They have been assembled into this volume in
                    the faint hope that they may serve as an antidote for the slang which has been
                    administered to the public in such frequent doses of late. They are supposed to
                    deal, more or less truthfully, with every-day life in Chicago.
                THE AUTHOR.
            
            
            
                CONTENTS
                
                    "THE DIP"
                        1
                        
                    AND JOSEPHINE FORGAVE
                        15
                        
                    THE BARCLAY LAWN
                            PARTY
                        27
                        
                    WHY "GONDOLA" WAS
                            PUT AWAY
                        37
                        
                    EFFIE WHITLESY
                        47
                        
                    THE FEUD
                        61
                        
                    "TALL-STOY"
                        67
                        
                    THE OTHER GIRL
                        75
                        
                    THE JUDGE'S SON
                        85
                        
                    HOUSE IN MERCEDES STREET
                        95
                        
                    HICKEY BOY AND THE GRIP
                        105
                        
                    THE SET OF POE
                        113
                        
                    DUBLEY, '89 123
                        
                    THE MONEY PRESENT
                        137
                        
                    BEST OF THE FARLEYS
                        145
                        
                    MR. WIMBERLEY'S TROUSERS
                        155
                        
                    THE FORMER KATHRYN
                        165
                        
                    CUPID IN BUTTONS
                        171
                        
                    
                    THE BUELL CHERRY
                        183
                        
                    AN INCIDENT IN THE "PANSY"
                        193
                        
                    MISS TYNDALL'S PICTURE
                        203
                        
                    MR. PAYSON'S SATIRICAL CHRISTMAS
                        213
                        
                    LIFE INSURANCE
                        227
                        
                    OUR PRIVATE ROMANCE
                        237
                        
                    MR. LINDSAY ON "SAN JEWAN"
                        247
                        
                    THE STENOGRAPHIC PROPOSAL
                        255
                        
                    THE RELATIVES' CLUB
                        267
                        
                    GEORGE'S RETURN
                        275
                        
                    HARRY AND ETHEL
                        287
                        
                    "BUCK" AND GERTIE
                        297
                        
                    THE SCAPEGOAT
                        307
                        
                    WILLIE CURTIN--A MAN
                        315
                        
                    OPENING OF NAVIGATION
                        327
                        
                    NO CLARENCE
                        337
                        
                    WHEN FATHER MEETS
                            FATHER
                        349
                        
                
            
        
        
            
            
                In Babel
                
                    
                    "THE DIP"
                    
                    "THE DIP"
                    The place known as "Larry's Lunch" is a narrow
                        hole in the wall between two frame houses. The buildings are so old and weak
                        that they lean toward each other in their decrepitude. The street in front
                        is muddy and cobbled. Street-lamps are far apart. They burn low, as if this
                        neglected air had not enough oxygen to feed a cheerful flame. The sunken and
                        rotting sidewalk of wood is slippery to the foot. A kerosene lamp propped in
                        the front window of "Larry's Lunch" showed as a
                        mere smudge of light behind the dirty panes.
                    John Franzen lifted the loose iron latch, and there came into his nostrils,
                        like the breathing from a foul creature, the smell of poverty, frying
                        grease, and bad tobacco.
                    But he had to eat. He had not eaten for twenty-four hours. A Jew dealing in
                        pawns and junk had given him ten cents for his pocket-knifethe last of his
                        convertible property.
                    At "Larry's Lunch" he could get meat, bread,
                        potatoes, and coffee for ten cents. He ordered and then  leaned forward on the rough table, with his chin in his hands,
                        while the meat sizzled in the pan and a rancid smoke filled the low
                        room.
                    His uncle had been right.
                    "You take your share of the money and go to Chicago and
                        you'll be broke inside of six months," the uncle had said.
                        "You're a fool with money. Any man's a fool with
                        money unless it's money he's made himself."
                    "I know my business," he had said to his uncle.
                    After which they parted, with the understanding that if John Franzen ever
                        needed money he was not to come to his uncle for it.
                    Yes, his uncle had been right. A fool with his money! Diamonds that he had
                        worn clumsilyshowy betting at the race-tracksloans to new-made
                        friendsexperiments at the bucket-shops. Six months of it and he had sold his
                        pocket-knife that he might eat a shred of carrion in this hole and be alive
                        for another day.
                    Oh, what a triumph for those who had warned himthose who had told him he was
                        a fool with money! What rejoicing there would be at home when they heard of
                        itand they would hear it, because in small towns they hear everything. They
                        would be glad, to be sureall except Aunt Ella.
                    
                    "She was the only one who ever understood me," he said,
                        half aloud, grinding his fists on the table. "But I don't
                        care."
                    Then, because he didn't care, he let his head fall into the angle of
                        his right arm, and there in the darkness that he made for himself, he cried.
                        He was only twenty-two.
                    The front door clicked and slammed. Larry, who was both cook and waiter (in a
                        red flannel shirt chopped off at the elbows), brought the meat and coffee.
                        John Franzen pulled himself up from the table. Before him, talking to Larry,
                        stood a very small young man, with square shoulders, a pointed nose, shifty
                        eyes and mouth twitching into a smile whenever he spoke. This young man wore
                        a plaid cap, with a short peak. His coat collar was turned up, and within it
                        was a blue and white handkerchief knotted closely about his neck.
                    "If he comes around here, you tell him I want to see him,"
                        this young man was saying to Larry.
                    "All right, Eddie."
                    At that moment the young man named Eddie looked down and saw John
                        Franzen's face, streaked with tears. Possibly he was surprised to
                        know that a man may weep.
                    
                    "What's the matter?" he asked.
                        "Don't the steak suit you?"
                    "You'll have to excuse me," said Franzen, trying
                        to laugh. "I'm hoeing a pretty hard row just at present. I
                        s'pose I was kind o' weak from not eating or I
                        wouldn't have" and he stopped.
                    "What do you think of that?" asked Eddie, speaking to the
                        proprietor, who had gone back to his stove.
                    Larry nodded wisely and smiled. Eddie stood and watched Franzen tear at the
                        fibrous strip of meat and take long gulps of the hot coffee.
                    "First to-day?" he asked.
                    "Yes," answered Franzen, who was divided between shame and
                        hunger.
                    "How did you get the price?"
                    "I sold my knife."
                    "What if you didn't have any knife?"
                    "I don't know."
                    "How long you been in town?"
                    "About six months."
                    "Nice town, ain't it?"
                    Franzen shook his head dubiously and made an effort to smile.
                    Eddie threw back his head and laughed aloud.
                    "This is one o' the cases," he said, calling to
                        Larry. "Is it any wonder they start out?" Then to Franzen,
                             "Why didn't you stop some
                        fellow and ask him to let you have a nickel or two?"
                    "Because I'm not a beggar."
                    "That's the way to talk!" exclaimed Eddie, and he
                        laughed again. Franzen looked up at him, puzzled.
                    "Where you goin' to-night?"
                    "I don't know. There are two or three places where
                        I'm going to call again to-morrow to see about a job."
                    "The job you stand a chance of getting' to-morrow or next
                        week ain't very much help to you to-night, is it?" asked
                        Eddie.
                    "This is a new experience for me," said Franzen.
                        "I've heard about fellows being up against it this way,
                        but I never thought I'd come to it."
                    "You don't care much for it as far as you've got,
                        do you?"
                    Franzen looked up again, undecided whether Eddie was sympathising with him or
                        taunting him.
                    "I wish I had the money I had six months ago," he said
                        bitterly. "They wouldn't take it away from me this
                        time."
                    Eddie leaned across the table and gave Franzen a hard but playful blow in the
                        ribs.
                    "You're all right," he said, laughing again.
                        "I'll just stake you to a bed to-night."
                    
                    When Franzen had eaten the last crumb of bread and drained the last drop of
                        coffee he followed Eddie across the street and up a steep stairway into a
                        room that held a bed, a table, a chair, and a zinc-bound trunk. The
                        bed-clothes were in confusion.
                    "Roll in there next to the wall an' dream you've
                        got all the cash you brought up from the country," commanded Eddie,
                        who had squatted on the trunk, giving the only chair to his guest. Franzen
                        slept with Eddie that night and went to breakfast with him next morning, at
                        a fifteen-cent place.
                    "If you don't strike anything to-day, come around
                        to-night," said Eddie.
                    Franzen did come back that night to get food and a resting-place. They were
                        on their way to the room from the restaurant when two big men stood before
                        them at a corner. One grabbed Eddie and the other held Franzen by the wrist
                        before he had time to dodge or retreat.
                    "Hello, Mullen," said Eddie to the man who was holding
                        him.
                    "Hello, Eddie," in a growling voice. "You
                        can't stay away, can you?"
                    "Why should I? All my friends livin' here. What is thisthe
                        drag-net?"
                    
                    "I don't know. They told us to bring you in if we found
                        you. Who's your friend here?"
                    "It'll do me a lot o' good to tell you,
                        won't it? If I say he's a young fellow that's
                        gone broke and that I just happened to meet him an' stake him for a
                        day or two till he could pick up somethin', of course everybody
                        over at the station 'll believe me?"
                    "They may, if you tell it without laughin'. Come
                        on."
                    A few minutes later here were Franzen and the Good Samaritan bumping over the
                        granite blocks on their way to the police station. Franzen was surprised to
                        find himself indifferent.
                    "I'm sorry to get you pinched, young fellow," said
                        Eddie, through the gloom of the covered wagon. "I ought to have
                        told you you was takin' a chance when you went around with me.
                        I'm a bad little boy, ain't I, Mr.
                        Policeman?"
                    "Oh-h-h!" growled the wagon-man.
                    "I don't blame you," said
                        Franzen. "What right did they have to arrest either one of
                        us?"
                    Eddie laughed and remarked: "You don't half know this
                        town."
                    The wagon-policeman, whose shape blocked the light coming in at the narrow
                        window, gave a disgusted mumble, in token of the fact that he could not  be deceived by their talk. He was possessed of
                        a brutal unbelief, which he regarded as a fine quality of discernment.
                    At the station they were separated. Franzen gave his right name to the main
                        in the cage, much to Eddie's amusement. The man in the cage did not
                        have to ask for Eddie's name.
                    Franzen slept on a bench and he slept, too, lulled off with a mild impersonal
                        wonder as to what his uncle and his aunt would say if they knew that their
                        orphan charge was locked up in a police-station, and had not changed shirts
                        for a week. Next morning he ate his heel of bread and drank his tin of
                        coffee and looked out through the parallel bars at the bedraggled men and
                        women who were being mustered for the morning session of court. He could not
                        see Eddie anywhere. Some one was whistling at the other end of the corridor.
                        He surmised that it was Eddie.
                    Then a turnkey in blue came and opened his cell-door.
                    "Come on," said the turnkey, and Franzen followed upstairs
                        into a hot room, where a big captain with a grey moustache sat at the
                        desk.
                    The captain looked at Franzen threateningly and said: "I
                        don't know him."
                    Other men with moustaches came in and looked at 
                        Franzen. They didn't know him either, and they regretted to say it.
                        It showed a lack of professional knowledge not to be able to identify any
                        stranger as professional crook.
                    "How long have you and Eddie been workin'
                        together?" one of them asked.
                    "I've never worked with him," said Franzen.
                        "I've been looking for work all week."
                    He told them his storythe truth of it. Five big men smiled broadly and stared
                        at him in contempt. They knew better.
                    "An' you didn't know Eddie was a dip?"
                        asked the captain.
                    "A what?" (Laughter.)
                    "A dip."
                    "I don't know what you mean."
                    "Did you ever hear of pickpockets?"
                    "Yes, sir."
                    "Well, a dip is a pickpocket. That's what Eddie
                        is."
                    "I don' care what he is. He did me a good turn. I never saw
                        him until night before last."
                    "This fellow can be vagged," said one of the big men.
                        "He admits himself he's out o' money an'
                        ain't got a job."
                    "That's why he ain't a vag," said the
                        captain.  "The vag has always got a
                        job and plenty of money." Then to Franzen: "You keep away
                        from Eddie an' his crowd." This meant that Franzen was
                        free to go.
                    He started to leave the station and was attracted by the buzz of the
                        courtroom. He went in, hoping to see Eddie again. There was a noisy and
                        jostling crowd around the magistrate's high throne. Cases were
                        being tried, but Franzen could not follow them in the confusion of
                        sounds.
                    At last he saw Eddie coming out of the throng, held by a turnkey.
                    He slipped forward along the wall and touched him on the arm.
                    "Hello there," he said.
                    Eddie turned and grinned.
                    "Did you fix it?" he asked.
                    "They let me go."
                    "It's a wonderbein' with me."
                    "Here, here!" growled the turnkey. "Come
                        on!"
                    "I'm sent out," said Eddie.
                    "Where?"
                    "Where do you s'poseI won't be there day after
                        to-morrow. Good-bye."
                    "Say, I want to thank you for"
                    "That's all right."
                    "You never told me your name."
                    
                    "You ask here at the station. They'll give you all of my
                        names."
                    "Come on!" said the turnkey, pulling.
                    Eddie winked and the battered door closed behind him.
                
                
                
                    AND JOSEPHINE FORGAVE
                    
                    AND JOSEPHINE FORGAVE
                    Markley was in a small back room on the second floor. It was whispered that
                        he had a wife somewhere, and that she had cast him into the street, or, what
                        was almost as deplorable, into the St. Clement Hotel.
                    It was hard to believe. Markley was a little man with a creepy walk and mild
                        grey eyes. He seemed a gentle soul. Most of the time he sat apart from the
                        other men, smoking a darkened briar pipe and gazing vacantly into the
                        street.
                    At other times he would be in the stuffy writing-room, composing letters of
                        many pages. It was supposed that these letters were to his wife, as he would
                        sometimes pause in his writing and cover his eyes with a thin, bony hand,
                        and sit thus in suggestive meditation.
                    Wilson, an employ$eA of the Universal Transportation Company, was laid up at
                        the hotel for three weeks. He moped and convalesced and read until he was
                        desperate, and then he cultivated Markley as a last resort. Markley was the
                        only man who could be found at all hours.
                    
                    At first Markley was civil but not reciprocal. Then he slowly thawed, finding
                        that Wilson was sympathetic. On the second or third day of their sitting
                        around together he spoke of himself. It came out that he had been a
                        "cub" machinist in his youth, then a draughtsman, and
                        finally an inventor on his own account.
                    He had patented certain devices which were used by all makers of passenger
                        and freight elevators, and he had thought out an overhead cash-carrier of
                        the kind used in retail stores. These patents, he was free to admit, brought
                        several thousands of dollars to him every year.
                    "You don't put on much style for a man who has a good
                        income," said Wilson, meaning it as a halfway compliment.
                    "No, I don't care for show, but Josephinewell"
                    He checked himself and once more began to talk of patents.
                    One day Markley invited Wilson up to the small back room to look at a
                        drawing.
                    The room was as dismal as any hotel apartment could be. It contained a bed, a
                        trunk, two chairs, and a bureau, on which were four books, a comb and brush,
                        and one photograph.
                    
                    While Markley was at the trunk to get the drawing, Wilson picked up the
                        photograph and held it in the light.
                    The woman was large, but somewhat shrunken from the animal fulness of youth.
                        There was too much cheek-bone and a bold look about the eyes. Wilson smiled
                        at the staring face with the extravagance of ribbons below and the tangle of
                        "bang" above. He was only a clerk for a transfer company,
                        and a single man, but he knew all about women, of course. He guessed that
                        this woman would wear white shoes in the summer time and prefer a yellow
                        diamond to a fresh flower.
                    Markley straightened up from the trunk and saw Wilson looking at the
                        photograph. He came and leaned over Wilson's arm.
                    "Fine-looking woman," he said.
                    "Yes, she's all right."
                    "You know who she is, of course?"
                    "No," said Wilson, in order to protect his compliment.
                    "That's my wife."
                    "Oh!"
                    Markley reached for the photograph, sat down on the edge of the bed and told
                        his story.
                    They had been married ten years. She was the 
                        daughter of a livery-man. He had seen her and loved her, but he never dared
                        to ask her hand in marriage until he began to realise money on his
                        patents.
                    She had accepted on condition that he get a house in Michigan Avenue. He laid
                        aside a large share of his yearly income in order that she might have the
                        house. She had enjoyed Michigan Avenue very much. She had so many friends
                        there. She was so fond of society.
                    Wilson glanced across at the picture, and he could see the
                        "society."
                    Markley confessed to Wilson that he never cared much for
                        "society." He seldom went to the
                        "springs" with his wife. She usually went with Mrs.
                        McLeachkin. (Wilson happened to know that Mr. McLeachkin was an
                        ex-confidence man, who had stolen considerable money in politics.) The last
                        time she had spoken of going to the "springs" he (Markley)
                        had advised against it. He had heard of Mrs. McLeachkin's personal
                        encounter with a race-horse man in an all-night restaurant, and he had
                        ventured to suggest that she was not a proper companion for his darling.
                        When he entered his objections to Mrs. McLeachkin he was ordered out of the
                        house by Mrs. Markley, and told that he must never come back. Since that  unhappy day he had been living at the St.
                        Clement, wretched in spirit, but still hopeful that Mrs. Markley would
                        forgive him and receive him back into the Michigan Avenue home.
                    Wilson heard the story to the end, and then he arose and walked back and
                        forth, full of the superior wrath of the bachelor.
                    "Who owns that house?" he asked.
                    "We doJosephine and me."
                    "It's in your name, isn't it?"
                    "Yes, but I don't want to try any harsh measures.
                        She's mad enough now."
                    "What is she doing for money?"
                    "She gets so much a month. We fixed that."
                    "Well, why don't you shut off her supply? That'll
                        bring her to her senses."
                    Markley shook his head and sighed. "No, I wouldn't do
                        that," he said. "She's a woman with a lot of
                        spunk and spirit, and I'd never hear the last of it."
                    "Do you expect to go back and live with her again?"
                    "I think she'll give in. I've been writing to her
                        a good deal."
                    "And you mean to say that you're stopping here at the St.
                        Clement and putting up money to let that  woman
                        chase all over the country and have a good time? Oh, I think I see myself
                        doing that!"
                    "Well, I'll tell you, Mr. Wilson, that's the only
                        way to do anything with her. You don't know her the way I do.
                        You've got to handle her easy. She's just back from New
                        York now, and I've been sending a few little presents down there to
                        sort of make her forget our trouble."
                    "Forgot nothing! You didn't do anything but warn her
                        against running around with that calcimined blonde, who, if you
                        won't mind my saying it, is just a little tougher than sole
                        leather. Everybody knows about her. You did right, on don't
                        weaken!"
                    "Yes, I heard some of the reports. I don't think Josephine
                        ought to go with her, but I might have known she wouldn't stand
                        having me tell her to do this or do that. Still it'll come out all
                        right in the end. I kind o' believe it will."
                    "Oh, I suppose so. She knows when she's got a good
                        thing."
                    Markley wore such a reproachful look, that Wilson changed the subject.
                    Late one afternoon, about a week after that, Wilson came to the hotel and saw
                        standing in front a coupé, on top of which was a lean negro with an
                        exaggerated fur-collar. It was not often that a carriage  stopped in front of the St. Clement, and
                        Wilson therefore asked the clerk, "Who's our swell
                        visitor?"
                    "Sh-h-h! I think it must be Markley's wife.
                        They're in the parlour there."
                    Wilson walked softly toward the tawdry hole known as the
                        "parlour" and peeped from behind the door.
                    Mrs. Markley sat calm and erect in a wreckage of department-store fabrics
                        meant for gentler harmonies. She was powdered, except on the neck and under
                        the ears, and as she plucked, or rather pecked, at her fine raiment, Wilson
                        observed that all her fingers were circled with rings.
                    Markley was leaning toward her, purring for sympathy and pity as if he were a
                        pet kitten. When he paused she looked down at him and said, "Humph!
                        I suppose so."
                    Another soft pleading by Markley and then she smiled sourly and said,
                        "Oh, that'll do to tell."
                    Another prolonged prayer from the suppliant, Markley. She wriggled in her
                        chair and said, "Oh, I s'pose so."
                    Markley came out of the room and Wilson retreated. Markley overtook Wilson
                        and seized him by the arm.
                    
                    "Say, it's all right," he whispered, gleefully.
                        "Come up to the room. I'm in a hurry. I want to tell you.
                        She's in therein the parlour."
                    "Your wife?"
                    "Yes, it happened just right. She used up all the money she had to
                        her account, and wanted some more right away, so she drove over here to get
                        a check. We've been talking it over, and I'm going back
                        home with her."
                    Wilson followed him into the room and saw him dive into the trunk for a
                        check-book and grab at the hook for an overcoat.
                    "She finally did come to see you when she needed money,
                        eh?"
                    "This is what I was countin' on. It couldn't have
                        happened better."
                    And he ran back to Josephine.
                    Wilson waited in the office to sec them go away. Markley was in nervous
                        ecstasy. He took hold of Josephine's arm to assist her, but she
                        pulled away and said, "Oh, for goodness sake!"
                    Markley came over to Wilson and told him, aside, "I'd
                        introduce you, Mr. Wilson, but you know how she is."
                    "Oh, that's all right," said Wilson. "I
                        don't belong in society."
                    
                    "Are you comin' or ain't you?" asked
                        Josephine at the door.
                    "Yes, certainly, all right," he replied, and he ran.
                    Wilson saw him crawl into the coup$eA after her and ride awaytoward
                        Paradise.
                
                
                
                    THE BARCLAY LAWN PARTY
                    
                    THE BARCLAY LAWN PARTY
                    The Barclays never went to summer-gardens where malt drink is served. They
                        remained at home and looked at the factories. The Barclay home was a
                        redbrick cube with a high and mournful roof. For ten years it had braced
                        itself against the onsweeping rush of big machine-shops and steam-bakeries.
                        Now it stood alone, a remnant of the old guard of that once sylvan street,
                        surrounded and doomed, but not yet surrendering.
                    The Barclay girls were ready to move into a new house on the boulevard, but
                        Mr. Barclay preferred to remain at home. The Methodist church was only three
                        blocks to the west. Such friends as they cared to meet could still find the
                        house. Here they had elbow room, green trees and flower-beds. Sometimes,
                        when the smoke drifted obligingly, the sunshine reached themand it was
                        "home."
                    One summer day the Barclay girls decided to live down the unfashionableness
                        of the street by giving a lawn party.
                    The guests were to assemble at 6.30, and there was  to be croquet playing in the area back of the grapearbour.
                        After that, when it came time for lighting the Chinese lanterns in the front
                        yard, the company was to be seated at the small tables and provided with
                        ice-cream, lemonade and cake. Two artists were to dispense mandolin music.
                        After the serving of the refreshments and in the intervals between the
                        mandolin selections, Eunice Barclay was to play a violin solo and the
                        minister was to give some of the dialect recitations for which he had become
                        justly famous with the members of his congregation. The minister had a
                        fetching dialect, which was neither Yankee, German, nor Irish, but which he
                        could fasten interchangeably on any kind of a character. Sometimes the
                        minister would insert a dialect story into a sermon, and cause even Mr.
                        Barclay to relax into an unwilling smile.
                    The lawn party started cheerfully. As the invited ones came straying in, Mrs.
                        Barclay received them at the front porch and directed them to the croquet
                        game back of the grape-arbour. There were but four players in the game, the
                        other people sitting at the boundaries and simulating a sportive interest.
                        Flora and the minister were partners against Mrs. Jennings and Mr. Talbot,
                        who was the basso of the church-choir.
                    
                    Flora convulsed the company when she exclaimed: "Oh, Mr. Talbot, I
                        kissed you."
                    Now, what Flora really meant was that her croquet ball had kissed the croquet
                        ball belonging to Mr. Talbot, but the startling wickedness implied in what
                        she had said served to pleasantly horrify one and all. Afterward some of the
                        women paled and pulled themselves back and seemed to feel that they had gone
                        too far in their laughter, but they were reassured to observe that the
                        minister was smiling and unruffled.
                    The Barclay girls did not vibrate with the full triumph of their plans until
                        the guests moved in a loose swarm to where the chairs and tables waited
                        under the soft glow of lanterns. The mandolin orchestra, consisting of a
                        mandolin and guitar, began to tinkle in the shadow of the porch.
                    It was still early dusk as the company gaily took possession of the small
                        tables. The reserve which had chilled the beginning of the croquet contest
                        had gradually worn away, and bright conversational flings went from table to
                        table, many of them aimed at the minister, who was accused of inordinate
                        haste in getting at the ice-cream. He laid the blame on Sister Crandall, and
                        said she had asked him to lead the way to the refreshments. Mrs. Crandall
                        protested in mock anger, and Mr. Barclay laughed immoderately,  for he did not object to mischievous
                        persiflage, under certain limitations.
                    A small boy had hung his face in a restful way between two pickets of the
                        front fence and was gaping at the company. He was a big-eyed boy, and those
                        who glanced toward him were made to think of a bloodless head impaled on two
                        pikes. His silent scrutiny seemed to embarrass even the minister. Eunice
                        Barclay went over to him and said, "Run away now, that's a
                        good little boy." He backed away a few steps, staring at her
                        sullenly, and when she rejoined the minister, he eased his chin between the
                        pickets once more and grinned defiantly.
                    The orchestra began a medley of popular songs. Three other boys came to the
                        fence and asked the bigeyed boy what was up. In a loud tone he urged them to
                        keep still and listen to the music. Two men in their shirt-sleeves came
                        along and stopped for the free concert. A little girl, having peeped through
                        to get material for a connected story, ran away to arouse her friends and
                        bring them to the scene of festival.
                    By the time the orchestra came to a rousing finish there were nine male
                        persons punctuated along the fence, and a moment later no less then seven
                        little girls mobilised and wriggled their fingers between the palings and
                        begun to point out objects of interest.
                    
                    The Barclay guests stiffened themselves in their chairs and conversed
                        laboriously, determined to ignore, and thus repel, the low curiosity.
                    But when one of the men in shirt-sleeves suggested to the orchestra that it
                        "Play something else," a perceptible shiver ran through
                        the assemblage. The little girls began to speculate earnestly as to the
                        quality of the ice-cream.
                    Flora Barclay fanned herself rapidly and said, "Well, I
                        never!" several times. Then she asked, "Don't you
                        suppose they would go away if you asked them to, Mr. Talbot?"
                    Mr. Talbot weighs 130 pounds, and it may be that he was not meant for the
                        commander's purple. But he said he would try.
                    He approached the fence, and, addressing the line of outsiders, said:
                        "This is just a little private party, you know, and we'd
                        be much obliged if you wouldn't stand here."
                    "We ain't hurtin' you," said one of the
                        bulky men. "Go on with your show."
                    "I know, but the ladies who live here would rather that youthat is,
                        wouldn't congregate here."
                    The men looked at one another, undecided, and then one of them said:
                        "I don't like to he drove away from a place while
                        I'm behayin' like a gentleman."
                    
                    "That's right," mumbled his neighbour, his manner
                        indicating that he had been stung in his American pride.
                    Mr. Talbot rejoined Flora and said he believed the men would go away
                        presently. But they did not go away.
                    The orchestra played again, and the attendance increased. A crowd gathers
                        itself like a rolling snowball. The larger it becomes, the greater is its
                        drawing power.
                    Those who arrived during the second music loudly asked what was happening,
                        and some of them seemed to believe that the music and the display of
                        lanterns had a political significance. By this time the minister was
                        comforting the women by telling them that it was "most
                        unfortunate." Mr. Talbot was worried. Again Flora had asked him to
                        "do something." What could he do?
                    Great was his relief when he saw an officer of the law. The policeman had
                        parted a way for himself and was leaning heavily on the fence, a thoughtful
                        expression mantling his face as he listened to the music.
                    "Please, Mr. Officer," said Mr. Talbot,
                        "won't you get these people to go away? This is a private
                        lawn party."
                    
                    "Do they bother you?" asked the policeman.
                    "I should say so."
                    "I don't know as I've got any right to move
                        'em."
                    "Haven't got any right! Of course you've got a
                        right. I appeal to you, sir. What's your number?"
                    "Oh, well, I'll try to get 'em back,"
                        said the policeman.
                    So he started along the fence, saying: "Come now, you'll
                        have to move away from here." Every one retired before the majesty
                        of his presence until he came to the man who previously had said that he
                        didn't "want to he drove away." This man began to
                        ask questions of the policeman.
                    "Who owns this sidewalk?" he demanded. "These
                        people here don't own the street, do they? You don't have
                        to do what they say, do you? Ain't I a taxpayer? Have I violated
                        any ordinance, huh?"
                    The policeman was not a bureau of information. He took the inquisitive man by
                        the neck and attempted to throttle him. The next moment there was a
                        whirlwind battle.
                    The timid women under the Barclay trees screamed and caught hold of one
                        another. Tables were upset and dishes went avalanching. Beyond the fence, a
                        rosewood club twirled in the uncertain light and the tax-payer lunged to
                        avoid it.
                    
                    Then a patrol-wagon at the corner and two hundred spectators helping to load
                        the damaged taxpayer into it.
                    Solemn, churchly men leading shaky women out of the Barclay front gate.
                    Flora in a summer-chair on the vine-sheltered porch, squirming with hysteria
                        and Mr. Talbot trying to console her.
                    "Oh! Oh! The barbarians!" she gasped, with her handkerchief
                        crumpled against her check.
                    "They are. They are, indeed," assented Mr. Talbot, reaching
                        for her hand.
                    "We've wanted to move out of this dreadful neighbourhood
                        for years, but fatherOh" and once more collapse seemed imminent.
                        But Mr. Talbot was holding her hand in both of his hands.
                    "Let your father stay if he wants to, but you and me can go and live
                        wherever you say."
                    Ungrammatical and undiplomatic, true, but it served the purpose and it had to
                        happen some time.
                
                
                
                    WHY "GONDOLA" WAS PUT AWAY
                    
                    WHY "GONDOLA" WAS PUT AWAY
                    "Gondola" Wilson was not a tramp, because he knew a trade
                        and had been known to work. He was a tramp in this, however, that he
                        consistently refused to pay railway fares. Hence his name.
                        "Gondola" is submerged tenth for
                        "flat-car."
                    He was a journeyman of the restless kind. When he had been three weeks in
                        Milwaukee, then St. Paul seemed a more desirable place of residence. When in
                        St. Paul, he had a tired hankering to see the Narcissus lodging-house in
                        Chicago. After he had arrived at the Narcissus, he began to watch the trains
                        starting for Cincinnati and longed to curl himself on a truck and jolt away
                        to where the muddy stream fronts the sloping warehouses.
                    Once he was away from the Narcissus for a whole year. On the day of his
                        return to the Narcissus (the prison pallor on his face and his head cropped
                        to show white sears) six inmates were sitting near the windows reading a
                        morning newspaper. They had torn the paper into sheets and divided it. The
                        man who had  drawn the small
                        "ads." was discontented. He could find nothing on his
                        sheet except "Help Wanted." He lowered his paper and
                        before him sat "Gondola" Wilson, seeming yellow in the
                        filtered light.
                    "Where's the committee?" asked
                        "Gondola." "Where's the triumphal arch,
                        'Welcome Home'?"
                    "You're alive, then?"
                    "Alive and kickin',"
                    "If you're alive, it follows that you're
                        kickin'. How long has it been?"
                    "A yearnext month."
                    "You had to go crooked at last, did you?"
                    "Well, that's what they called it. I'm lucky they
                        didn't hang me. Some of 'em wanted to."
                    "Tell me what you done. I ain't the court."
                    "Say, listen, an' see if you ever heard the likes before.
                        It was in Octobera year ago last October. I'd walked from
                        Loueyville over to Terry Hut with a nigger that played the mouth-harp. We
                        hid in the yards at Terry Hut an' got into an empty stock that we
                        thought was headed for Danville. Some time in the night a brakeman seen us
                        an' fired us out. I'd been asleep and the first thing I
                        remember was fallin' out o' the car an'
                        lightin' hard, with the coon comin' after me. We
                        didn't know where we was, but we could make out a side track
                        an' a chute for loadin' hogs.  About a mile off we could see some lights an' we judged we was
                        near a purty good-sized town. Me an' the coon started to walk
                        toward town an' then I stopped him an' says:
                        'Here, if we go to drillin' around town at this time
                        o' night an' are o' them country coppers gets a
                        peep at as, he'll shoot us first and then ask us our names
                        afterwards. Let's crawl in somewheres an' sleep till
                        mornin' an' than we'll go in town an'
                        try to round up a hand-out.' Well, just as I was sayin'
                        this, we happened to be walkin' along past a tall fence. I looked
                        through the cracks an' could see one or two lights quite a distance
                        off an' right near us was a long buildin' that looked
                        somethin' like a barn. It was gettin' chilly an'
                        I said to this pardner of mine, 'Coon, gi' me a boost over
                        the fence an' I think we can find a warm place here.' So
                        we skinned over the fence an' come to the buildin'. It was
                        a big buildin'. I still thought it was a barn. We walked around,
                        lookin' for a door or window, on 't we could crawl in. At
                        last this pardner of minehis name 'uz Jeff an'
                        I'll kill him if ever I lay eyes on him againJeff found a little
                        door that wasn't locked an' we went in, feelin'
                        our way along, thinkin', you know, that we might find some hay or
                        straw to sleep on. Purty soon Jeff fell over somethin' an'
                        I landed on top of him. We felt around as an' discovered that
                        we'd run into a lot o' watermelons  layin' on the floor. I s'pose the coon was
                        sorry to meet them melons, huh? The first thing I knew he'd split
                        one of 'em open an' I could hear him chompin' in
                        the dark. Well, I got up an' felt my way along an' purty
                        soon I reached out an' what do you s'pose I took holt of
                        there in the pitch dark? This ain't no dream I'm
                        tellin' you. What do you think I took holt of? A
                        plate with about a dozen biscuits on it. Now, I ain't no crook
                        an' I never broke into a house to steal anything, but I'll
                        leave this to you. If you hadn't had anything to eat for eighteen
                        hours an' should happen to crawl into a barn at night an'
                        reach out into the dark an' find a dozen light biscuits, would you
                        eat 'em or throw 'em away?"
                    "I'd prob'ly eat 'em," was the
                        reply.
                    "That's what I done, except what I give to Jeff. He found a
                        match in his close an' struck it, an' we saw in front of
                        on a wooden shelf covered with pies and cakes an' all kinds
                        o' cooked stuff. The match only burned for a minute, but we made
                        out that much. Jeff found a plate o'butter, an' we et the
                        biscuit with butter, an' I ain't tasted anything like it
                        since I run away from home in Lowell thirty years ago. Then Jeff broke a
                        cake in two an' give me half of it. It was kind o' dry
                        eatin, but we put lots of butter on it. I s'pose I ought to stopped
                        an' remembered that all this 
                        provender belonged to somebody, but I was so blamed hungry I didn't
                        wait to think of nothin'. An' I must say I never seen
                        anybody eat the way that coon did. I didn't exactly see him eat,
                        neither, but I could hear him all right. After he et all the cakes
                        an' pies and biscuits he could lay his hands on he went back to
                        watermelon, an' I could hear him sloshin' an'
                        gulpin' there in the dark. I started to feel around for a soft
                        place to lay down, an' what do you guess? I run into a lot of
                        bed-cloze on lines."
                    "Say, what kind of a pipe is this?" asked the listener,
                        with a sidewise turn in his chair, indicating scepticism.
                    "It's the truth, every word of it. There must a'
                        been a dozen quilts. I pulled 'em down an' me and Jeff
                        rolled ourselves up in 'em an' went to sleep.
                        We'd et a lot an' it was a cold night, an' under
                        them warm covers we slept like a couple o' logs. Well, the next
                        thing I remember, somebody was shakin' me good an' hard,
                        an' I looked up at a fellow that had a tin star on his coat
                        an' a broomstick in his hand. I kind o' remembered what
                        had happened an' looked around. It was broad daylight. We laid
                        there in the infernalest mess of eatables you ever seen. People was
                        pilin' through the doors to get a look at us. I don't
                        suppose you've figured out what we'd done, so
                        I'll  tell you. This place
                        we'd got into was what they call Floral Hall at the county fair.
                        All the stuff we'd been eatin' was the exhibitions of the
                        best biscuits, the best watermelons, the best cake, the best butter,
                        an' so on of the whole county. You know the quilt I had around me.
                        Well, it was made of about a million little pieces o' silk. The
                        woman that made it put in fifteen years on it, and it was supposed to be
                        worth two hundred dollars. That all come out at the trial."
                    "Well, there must a' been a sore crowd o' grangers
                        around there," suggested the lodger.
                    "Honest, it's a wonder they didn't kill me. We
                        come mighty near bustin' up the whole show by eatin' them
                        exhibitions. When they led us out o' the grounds an' took
                        us in town to the jail there was a big crowd follered us an'
                        hollered 'Lynch 'em!' 'String
                        'em up!' an' a few more remarks like that. That
                        was the one time I was in a hurry to be put in jail. Do you know what they
                        made it when it come to a trial? Burglary! An' do you know what
                        Jeff done? He got up an' swore that I'd hypnotised him. He
                        testified that he didn't want to go into this buildin' at
                        all, but I made him by threatenin' to cast a spell over him. You
                        never heard such lyin' in your life. They sent him back to jail for
                        three months an' put me over the road for a year. They've
                        bleached me  just about right, ain't
                        they? That's all right, though. Look here."
                    He put his hand into a ravelled side pocket and brought out a copy of Henry
                        George's "Progress and Poverty." He made a deeper
                        reach and found a brass "knucks" with a blunt head and
                        three staring finger-holds.
                    "I'm savin' that for the coon," he
                        said.
                
                
                
                    EFFIE WHITLESY
                    
                    EFFIE WHITLESY
                    Mrs. Wallace assisted her husband to remove his overcoat and put her warm
                        palms against his red and wind-beaten cheeks.
                    "I have good news," said she.
                    "Another bargain sale?"
                    "Pshaw, no! A new girl, and I really believe she's a jewel.
                        She isn't young or good-looking, and when I asked her if she wanted
                        any nights off she said she wouldn't go out after dark for anything
                        in the world. What do you think of that?"
                    "That's too good to be true."
                    "No, it isn't. Wait and see her. She came here from the
                        intelligence office about two o'clock and said she was willing to
                        'lick right in.' You wouldn't know the kitchen.
                        She has it as clean as a pin."
                    "What nationality?"
                    "Nonethat is, she's a home product. She's from the
                        countryand green! But she's a good soul,
                        I'm sure. As soon as I looked at her, I just felt sure that we
                        could trust her."
                    
                    "Well, I hope so. If she is all that you say, why, for goodness sake
                        give her any pay she wantsput lace curtains in her room and subscribe for
                        all the story papers on the market."
                    "Bless you, I don't believe she'd read them. Every
                        time I've looked into the kitchen she's been working like
                        a Trojan and singing 'Beulah Land.' "
                    "Oh, she sings, does she? I knew there'd be some
                        draw-back."
                    "You won't mind that. We can keep the doors
                        closed."
                    The dinner-table was set in tempting cleanliness. Mrs. Wallace surveyed the
                        arrangement of glass and silver and gave a nod of approval and relief. Then
                        she touched the bell and in a moment the new servant entered.
                    She was a tall woman who had said her last farewell to girlhood.
                    Then a very strange thing happened.
                    Mr. Wallace turned to look at the new girl and his eyes enlarged. He gazed at
                        her as if fascinated either by cap or freckles. An expression of wonderment
                        came to his face and he said: "Well, by George!"
                    The girl had come very near the table when she took the first overt glance at
                        him. Why did the  tureen sway in her hands? She
                        smiled in a frightened way and hurriedly set the tureen on the table.
                    Mr. Wallace was not long undecided, but during that moment of hesitancy the
                        panorama of his life was rolled backward. He had been reared in the
                        democracy of a small community, and the democratic spirit came
                        uppermost.
                    "This isn't Effie Whittlesy?" said he.
                    "For the land's sake!" she exclaimed, backing
                        away, and this was a virtual confession.
                    "You don't know me."
                    "Well, if it ain't Ed Wallace!"
                    Would that words were ample to tell how Mrs. Wallace settled back in her
                        chair blinking first at her husband and then at the new girl, vainly trying
                        to understand what it meant.
                    She saw Mr. Wallace reach awkwardly across the table and shake hands with the
                        new girl and then she found voice to gasp: "Of all
                        things!"
                    Mr. Wallace was confused and without a policy. He was wavering between his
                        formal duty as an employer and his natural regard for an old friend. Anyway,
                        it occurred to him that an explanation would be timely.
                    "This is Effie Whittlesy from Brainerd," said he.
                        "I used to go to school with her. She's been at our  house often. I haven't seen her forI
                        didn't know you were in Chicago," turning to Effie.
                    "Well, Ed Wallace, you could knock me down with a feather,"
                        said Effie, who still stood in a flustered attitude a few paces back from
                        the table. "I had no more ides when I heard the name Wallace that
                        it'd be you, though knowin', of course, you was up here.
                        Wallace is such a common name I never give it a second thought. But the
                        minute I seen youlaw! I knew who it was, well enough."
                    "I thought you were still at Brainerd," said Mr. Wallace,
                        after a pause.
                    "I left there a year ago November, and come to visit Mort's
                        people. I s'pose you know that Mort has a position with the
                        street-car company. He's doin' so well.
                        I didn't want to he no burden on him, so I started out on my own
                        hook, seein' that there was no use of goin' back to
                        Brainerd to slave for two dollars a week. I had a good place with Mr.
                        Sanders, the railroad man on the north side, but I left becuz they wanted me
                        to some liquor. I'd about as soon handle a toad as a bottle of
                        beer. Liquor was the ruination of Jesse. He's gone to the dogsbeen
                        off with a circus somewheres for two years."
                    "The family's all broken up, eh!" asked Mr.
                        Wallace.
                    
                    "Gone to the four winds since mother died. Of course you know that
                        Lora married Huntford Thomas and is livin' on the old Murphy place
                        They're doin' about as well as you could expect, with
                        Huntford as lazy as he is."
                    "Yes? That's good," said Mr. Wallace.
                    Was this an old settlers' reunion or a quiet family dinner. The soup
                        had been waiting.
                    Mrs. Wallace came into the breach.
                    "That will be all for the present, Effie," said she.
                    Effie gave a startled "Oh!" and vanished into the
                        kitchen.
                    "What does this mean?" asked Mrs. Wallace, turning to her
                        husband, who had lain back in his chair to relieve himself with silent
                        laughter.
                    "It means," said Mr. Wallace, "that we were
                        children together, made mud pies in the same puddle and sat next to each
                        other in the old school-house at Brainerd. She is a Whittles. Everybody in
                        Brainerd knew the Whittlesys. Large family, all poor as church mice, but
                        sociableand freckled. Effie's a good girl."
                    "Effie! Effie! And she called you
                        Ed!"
                    "My dear, there are no misters in Brainerd. Why shouldn't
                        she call me 'Ed'? She never heard me called anything
                        else."
                    
                    "She'll have to call you something else here. You tell her
                        so."
                    "Now, don't ask me to put on any airs with one of the
                        Whittlesys, because they know me from away back. Effie has seen me licked at
                        school. She has been at our house, almost like one of the family, when
                        mother was sick and needed another girl. If my memory serves me right,
                        I've taken her to singing-school and exhibitions. So I'm
                        in no position to lord it over her, and I wouldn't do it any way.
                        I'd hate to have her go back to Brainerd and report that she met me
                        here in Chicago and I was too stuck up to remember old times and requested
                        her to address me as 'Mister Wallace.' Now, you never
                        lived in a small town."
                    "No, I never enjoyed that privilege," said Mrs. Wallace,
                        dryly.
                    "Well, it is a privilege in some respects, but it carries certain
                        penalties with it, too. It's a very poor schooling for a fellow who
                        wants to be a snob."
                    "I wouldn't call it snobbishness to correct a servant who
                        addresses me by my first name. 'Ed' indeed! Why, I never
                        dared to call you that."
                    "No, you never lived in Brainerd."
                    "And you say you used to take her to singing-school?"
                    "Yes, ma'amtwenty years ago, in Brainerd.  You're not surprised, are you? You
                        knew when you married me that I was a child of the soil, who worked his way
                        through college and came to the city in a suit of store clothes.
                        I'll admit that my past does not exactly qualify me for the Four
                        Hundred, but it will be great if I ever get into politics."
                    "I don't object to your having a past, but I was just
                        thinking has pleasant it will be when we give a dinner-party to have her
                        come in and address you as 'Ed.'"
                    Mr. Wallace patted the table-cloth cheerily with both hands and laughed.
                    "I really don't believe you'd care," said
                        Mrs. Wallace.
                    "Effie isn't going to demoralise the household,"
                        he said, consolingly. "Down in Brainerd we may be a little slack on
                        the by-laws of etiquette, but we can learn in time."
                    Mrs. Wallace touched the bell and Effie returned.
                    As she brought in the second course, Mr. Wallace deliberately encouraged her
                        by an amiable smile, and she asked, "Do you get the Brainerd
                        papers?"
                    "Yesevery week."
                    "There's been a good deal of sickness down there this
                        winter. Lora wrote to me that your uncle Joe had been kind o'
                        poorly."
                    "I think he's up and around again."
                    
                    "That's good."
                    And she edged back to the kitchen.
                    With the change for dessert she ventured to say: "Mort was
                        wonderin' about you the other day. He said he hadn't saw
                        you for a long time. My! You've got a nice house
                        here."
                    After dinner Mrs. Wallace published her edict. Effie would have to go. Mr.
                        Wallace positively forbade the "strong talking-to" which
                        his wife advocated. He said it was better that Effie should go, but she most
                        be sent away gently and diplomatically.
                    Effie was "doing up" the dishes when Mr. Wallace lounged
                        into the kitchen and began a roundabout talk. His wife, seated in the front
                        room, heard the prolonged murmur. "Ed" and Effie were
                        going over the family histories of Brainerd and recalling incidents that may
                        have related to mud pies or school exhibitions.
                    Mrs. Wallace had been a Twombley, of Baltimore, and no Twombley, with
                        relatives in Virginia, could humiliate herself into rivalry with a kitchen
                        girl, or dream of such a thing, so why should Mrs. Wallace be uneasy and
                        constantly wonder what Ed and Effie were talking about?
                    Mrs. Wallace was faint from the loss of pride. The night before they had
                        dined with the Gages. Mr.  Wallace, a picture
                        of distinction in his evening clothes, had shown himself the bright light of
                        the seven who sat at the table. She had been proud of him. Twenty-four hours
                        later a servant emerges from the kitchen and hails him as
                        "Ed"!
                    The low talk he the kitchen continued. Mrs. Wallace had a feverish longing to
                        tip-toe down that way and listen, or else go into the kitchen, sweepingly,
                        and with a few succinct commands, set Miss Whittlesy back into her menial
                        station. But she knew that Mr. Wallace would misinterpret any such move and
                        probably taunt her with joking references to her
                        "jealousy," so she forbore.
                    Mr. Wallace, with an unlighted cigar in his mouth (Effie had forbidden him to
                        smoke in the kitchen), leaned in the doorway and waited to give the
                        conversation a turn.
                    At last he said: "Effie, why don't you go down and visit
                        Lora for a month or so? She'd be glad to see you."
                    "I know, Ed, but I ain't no Rockefeller to lay off work a
                        month at a time an' go around visitin' my relations.
                        I'd like to well enoughbut"
                    "O pshaw! I can get you a ticket to Brainerd to-morrow and it
                        won't cost you anything down there."
                    
                    "No, it ain't Chicago, that's a fact. A dollar
                        goes a good ways down there. But what'll your wife do? She told me
                        to-day she'd had an awful time gettin' any
                        help."
                    "Wellto tell you the truth, Effie, you seeyou're an old
                        friend of mine and I don't like the idea of your being here in my
                        house as awell, as a hired girl."
                    "No, I guess I'm a servant now. I used to be a hired girl
                        when I worked for your ma, but now I'm a servant. I don't
                        see as it makes any difference what you call me, as long as the
                        work's the same."
                    "You understand what I mean, don't you? Any time you come
                        here to my house I want you to come as an old acquaintancea visitor, not a
                        servant."
                    "Ed Wallace, don't he foolish. I'd as soon work
                        for you as any one, and a good deal sooner."
                    "I know, but I wouldn't like to see my wife giving orders
                        to an old friend, as you are. You understand, don't
                        you?"
                    "I don't know. I'll quit if you say
                        so."
                    "Tut! tut! I'll get you that ticket and you can start for
                        Brainerd to-morrow. Promise me, now."
                    "I'll go, and tickled enough, if that's the way
                        you look at it."
                    "And if you come back, I can get you a dozen places to
                        work."
                    
                    Next evening Effie departed by carriage, although protesting against the
                        luxury.
                    "Ed Wallace," said she, pausing in the hallway,
                        "they never will believe me when I tell it in
                        Brainerd."
                    "Give them my best and tell them I'm about the same as
                        ever."
                    "I'll do that. Good-bye."
                    "Good-bye."
                    Mrs. Wallace, watching from the window, saw Effie disappear into the
                        carriage.
                    "Thank goodness," said she.
                    "Yes," said Mr. Wallace, to whom the whole episode had been
                        like a cheering beverage, "I've invited her to call when
                        she comes back."
                    "To callhere?"
                    "Most assuredly. I told her you'd be delighted to see her
                        at any time."
                    "The idea! Did you invite her, really?"
                    "Of course I did! And I'm reasonably certain that
                        she'll come."
                    "What shall I do?"
                    "I think you can manage it, even if you never did live in
                        Brainerd."
                    Then the revulsion came and Mrs. Wallace, with a full return of pride in her
                        husband, said she would try.
                
                
                
                    THE FEUD
                    
                    THE FEUD
                    In front of the police-station the street was a dismal slime. A fine rain
                        beat into the black puddles and helped to soften the islands of mud.
                        Dripping trolley-cars went by, hissing in disgust, the dirty water lifted by
                        the wheels. Now and then, through the fog and drizzle, some one came wading,
                        stamped his feet on the mucky stone sidewalk and entered the station.
                    Within the sheltered arch there was a smell of wet clothes. The men who stood
                        there had their coat-collars turned up and their hats pulled down. They
                        stood and looked out at the rain with deadened eyes. The hallway beyond was
                        gloomy, and the men against the wall talked in growls.
                    At first the court-room seemed like a cavern, with dim shapes moving
                        stealthily, their soggy feet making little noise on the floor. When the eye
                        became more accustomed to the gloom, there were two sections of benches
                        facing the high place where the magistrate was to sit.
                    The water dripped on the sills outside. The walls  beyond were rain-soaked and blurred by fog. Along the benches the men and
                        women sat motionlessimmersed in melancholy.
                    In that darkened room there were but two human beings who were able to lift
                        themselves above despondency. A baby, with a soiled bib pulled awry,
                        wriggled over the mother's shoulder and made friendly gestures at a
                        baby on the bench behind. The second baby gurgled in recognition and
                        squirmed about in its mother's arms as if to gain freedom and then
                        climb over and go visiting.
                    The woman in front looked around and saw the other woman. She pulled the
                        clawing child away from her shoulder and set it in her lap with a decided
                        concussion.
                    The other woman flounced to the end of the bench and turned the child
                        squarely around so as to give it a view of a moist policeman blocking a
                        doorway.
                    After that the two women glared at each other with ineffable hatred.
                    These two women were enemies. They had braved the rain and chill of a
                        November morning, each to tell the magistrate that the other was a
                        slatternly gossip and a creature with whom no honest people could have
                        dealings. They had scolded each other from back stoops and threatened each
                        other with  kitchen utensils and assailed
                        family reputations until nothing would satisfy either of them but the swift
                        vengeance of the law on the other.
                    It must have been a shock for Mrs. Montague when she saw that Little Magnus
                        Montague had crept up and was making love to little Lizzie Capulet on the
                        seat behind.
                    No wonder she bumped Magnus as she replaced him in her lap! If he had been a
                        discriminating baby he would have known that the little Capulet was the
                        spawn of evil and an oblong beginning of all wickedness.
                    If he had possessed one spark of family pride he would have scorned to say
                        "Goo" to any member of the hateful tribe of Capulet.
                    Who threw the tomato-cans into the Montague back yard? Who must have stolen
                        the morning paper off the Montague front steps? Who broke the leg of the
                        Montague cat? Answerthe Capulets.
                    And as for Mrs. Capulet, was it surprising that her ears tingled with shame
                        and her cheeks reddened as she realised that her little Juliet had received
                        the attentions of the accursed Romeo of the house of Montaguethat Lizzie had
                        smiled in encouragement when Magnus said "Goo"?
                    A child is born and the mother says: "Flesh of my
                
                
                
                    "TALL-STOY"
                    
                    "TALL-STOY"
                    "This is Mr. Latimer?" asked the man with the frock coat
                        and the sombre gloves.
                    "It is," replied "Bob," swinging around
                        in his revolving chair.
                    The stranger had a slight stoop and wore delta-shaped side whiskers of
                        iron-grey. He went to the attack confidingly.
                    "Your name has been given to us, Mr. Latimer, as one who is fond of
                        good books," he said, gazing at the assistant manager in mild and
                        solemn friendliness.
                    "Who is 'us'?" asked
                        "Bob."
                    "The Interplanetary Publishing Company is the house I have the
                        honour to represent. Our manager was very anxious that I should call on you.
                        Even if you do not care to place an order, I know that as a lover of
                        beautiful print and bindings, you will take some pleasure in examining the
                        sample volume I have here."
                    "Your manager is mixed in his dates. You have hunted up the wrong
                        Latimer."
                    
                    "I hardly think so. You have placed several orders with us already,
                        haven't you? Didn't you take a set of the
                        Balzac?"
                    "I guess I didfour dollars per Balzac. I've got
                        'em out home there now, just as good as new."
                    "That was an excellent edition."
                    "I wouldn't dare to contradict you, because I've
                        never looked into one of 'em."
                    "I had understood that you were something of a
                        collector."
                    "That isn't what I call myself. I call myself an easy mark.
                        I've got about as much use for a lot of them books as a Methodist
                        preacher'd have for a dark lantern an' a pair o'
                        loaded dice. I don't know how I happened to let myself be worked on
                        that first lot. I guess I had orders from home to fill up the shelves. You
                        fellows didn't do a thing to me. Bing! Four
                        dollars a throw. They may be swell books all right but I don't have
                        any time to get at 'em. Say, I don't even have time to
                        read the newspapers."
                    "You have no objection, however, to my showing you some of our new
                        things."
                    "Show it, if you want to, but you're simply usin'
                        up your own time, I can tell you that."
                    "I have something here that I fancy will please  you," said the stranger, producing a black oil-cloth
                        case from under his coat with the movement of the magician who finds the
                        white rabbit.
                    "What is it?"
                    "Tolstoi."
                    "Come again."
                    "Tolstoi."
                    "Tall-stoy?"
                    "Yes. I suppose you are more or less familiar with his
                        work?"
                    "Chicago man?"
                    "I don't think you caught the nameTolstoi, the eminent
                        Russian."
                    "Russian?"
                    "Yes, he is accorded first place among the great literary workers of
                        the czar's domain, his writings being characterised by simplicity,
                        immense strength, and a sympathy for all mankind, particularly the poor and
                        down-trodden."
                    "That's all right, too, but if your house wants to get out
                        books and sell them to people, why don't you plug for somebody here
                        at home? There's lots of good fellows in this country you might
                        help to a little money if you wanted to. Instead of that, you have to hunt
                        up some fellow over in Russia. You can bet that any coin he gets out
                        o' these books he spends  over there.
                        He don't come to Chicago to blow it in, does he?"
                    "Our house is always ready to give encouragement to American
                        authors, but in this line of work you must admit that Tolstoi is
                        pre-eminent."
                    "Let me tell you something. You come in here and you want me to buy
                        some books written by this, whatever his name is, and you say to me that he
                        is the best ever?"
                    "I merely repeat what the critics have agreed upon."
                    "The critics, eh? Now, let me tell you about them. I had a friend
                        here from Grand Rapids the other day and I wanted to take him to a show. I
                        didn't know what was good in town, so I gets a paper and reads the
                        notices. Well, I find one play that gets an awful lift all around, so we go
                        over there, and say! it was the saddest ever. It was so punk it was blue
                        around the edges. I don't want any critic tellin' me where
                        to get off. I don't think they're on the level. Now you
                        say there're all out cappin' for this fellow. Mebbe they
                        are, but look here, I never heard of this mug before and I've been
                        in town all the time, too."
                    "He has been writing for years."
                    "Where?"
                    "Over in Russia."
                    
                    "Yes, an' I've been in Chicago all that time. If
                        he wants to do business with us people, why don't he come
                        here?"
                    "My dear sir, Count Tolstoi's work has a world-wide
                        interest. Will you he good enough to notice the print? The etchings are
                        unusually good, also."
                    "How many books in the set?"
                    "There are twenty."
                    "Oh, Willie! I've just got a panel photograph o'
                        myself settin' up these winter nights to read twenty of these
                        things by his Russian nobs. Is that his picturewith the fringe? He
                        don't look to me much like a count."
                    "I believe, Mr. Latimer, that you would deeply enjoy reading
                        Tolstoi. He appeals to all thoughtful people."
                    "What are you trying to do, swell me? On the level do you find a
                        good many people to go against this kind of a game?"
                    "I'm meeting with gratifying success, Mr. Latimer. You see,
                        there has long been a demand for a uniform edition of Tolstoi."
                    "There has, eh? I hadn't heard about it."
                    "I sold three sets yesterday out at the university."
                    "What do you get for a set?"
                    
                    "The price is three dollars a volume, payable in
                        instalments."
                    "Sixty dollars' worth ofwhat's his
                        name?"
                    "Tolstoi."
                    "I'd have to be getting my sixties easy to let go of
                        'em for anything like this."
                    "You couldn't have a more valuable set in your
                        library."
                    "Yes? Well, you tell it all right. I s'pose you get a piece
                        of that sixty."
                    "NaturallyI get my commission."
                    "How much? About forty-five?"
                    "Oh, really! I merely get a fair percentage for placing the
                        works."
                    "Well, you'll earn all the percentage you get
                        here."
                    "If you will"
                    "Say, you ain't got one chance in a million. Let me give
                        you a pointer, too. Drop Tall-stoy and get on a live one. Here's
                        your book. I won't keep you waitin'."
                
                
                
                    THE OTHER GIRL
                    
                    THE OTHER GIRL
                    "Albert!"
                    "Umh?"
                    "Albert, I want to ask you something."
                    "Well?"
                    "Somethinglet go of my hand while I'm asking you this,
                        because it's rather serious."
                    "Goodness!"
                    "Maybe not so serious, either, butOh, I don't know; II
                        suppose I'm foolish to think about it, but something that Grace
                        Elliott said yesterday"
                    "I wouldn't care what she said about
                        anything."
                    "I don't, because I know well enough that she tattles all
                        she knows and a good deal more; but it was the way she acted more than
                        anything else."
                    "What was it all about, anyway?"
                    "It was about you, for one."
                    "Yes; Grace loves menot."
                    "It was something about you and some one else."
                    "Who was the 'some one else'?"
                    "Can't you guess?"
                    "No. Was it you?"
                    
                    "No!"
                    "No? Well, then, I'm not interested to hear anything about
                        it."
                    "Oh, you dear thing! It was something about a
                        girl, thoughanother girl."
                    "Which one? What's her name?"
                    "I should think you could guess."
                    "I don't see why. I don't know many
                        girls."
                    "That's too bad about you. Anyway, you might
                        try."
                    "Well, who was itRose Whiting?"
                    "Rose Whiting! Oh!"
                    "Jessie Cameron?"
                    "Albert Morton, you're not trying to guess. It was Fannie
                        McClellan."
                    "Oh!"
                    "Yes. I should think it would be
                        'Oh.' You knew the one I meant all the time."
                    "Who, I? Why should I?"
                    "Innocence! Now, Albert, stop laughing, please. I'm in
                        earnest."
                    "So am I, then. What is it?"
                    "Well, I want to know something about herabout you and
                        her."
                    "All right. Anything you want to know."
                    "You think I'm joking, but I'm not. I've
                        told you  things, Albert, that I never told
                        even to my dearest girl friends, and I think you might tell me something
                        about Fannie McClellan, becausewell, after Grace left here yesterday, I went
                        up to my room and had a good cry."
                    "It's too bad she can't attend to her own
                        business."
                    "I didn't believe what she said, but it made meoh, she has
                        such an aggravating way about her, and all the time she kisses you and
                        fusses around you and pretends to be the best friend you ever had in the
                        whole wide world."
                    "She makes me tired."
                    "After she'd gone away, I couldn't remember that
                        she'd said anything in just so many words, but she kept hinting
                        around and acting as if she knew a lot more than she cared to
                        tell."
                    "Don't you remember anything she said?"
                    "Well, it was about you andFannie McClellan. You did go with her for
                        a while, didn't you, Albert?"
                    "Yes, I used to take her to places once in a while. You knew that.
                        Why, I was with her the first time I ever met youthat night at the Carleton
                        Club."
                    "Yes, and when we were sitting over in the corner she looked as if
                        she'd like to bite my head off. Was that the last time you ever
                        went with her?"
                    
                    "I don't remember. I may have gone with her once or twice
                        after that."
                    "You must have gone with her a good many times altogether, counting
                        when you called and all that."
                    "Ye-e-s. I saw her, occasionally, now and then, for a year or so
                        before I met you."
                    "If thatthen you must have liked her better than you did the other
                        girls."
                    "Well, it was natural that I should like her better than some girls
                        and then, again, there were other girls that I liked about as well as I did
                        her."
                    "But you went to see her oftener than you did any other girl, now
                        didn't you? Tell me, Albert, please.
                        It's all past now and it doesn't make the teeniest bit of
                        difference what happened, or whether you went to see her every night,
                        only"
                    "Only what? If it doesn't make any difference,
                        what's all this excitement about?"
                    "Now, don't get mad, Albert."
                    "I'm not mad."
                    "Really?"
                    "No! Pshaw!"
                    "Now, can't you see that if we are going to be together all
                        our lives, Albert, I ought to know about these things, so that if any one
                        like Grace Elliott  comes around dropping her
                        hints and saying these things I can"
                    "Now, just one moment, Lil. Let's understand this whole
                        business. What was it Grace Elliott said?"
                    "As I tell you, she didn't say anything in so many words,
                        but you could see what she meant."
                    "All right, then. What did she mean?"
                    "Albert, you won't scold?"
                    "No; go ahead."
                    "Oh, I'm sorry I ever spoke of it at all."
                    "I wish I knew what 'it' was."
                    "Well, I want you to know, Albert, that I realise perfectly well
                        that any one can go and see a girl once in awhile, and even take her to
                        parties, without becoming engaged or anything like that, and I
                        wouldn't have brought this up at all only that Grace"
                    "Oh, darn Grace!"
                    "Albert!"
                    "She won't be a bridesmaid, do you understand? She
                        won't be anything."
                    "Albert! Honestly, Grace didn't actually
                        say anything right out, but I simply felt that she meant something.
                        NowahAlbert, you've told me that you never were engaged before, and
                        I know that, butwell, you weren't, were
                        you?"
                    "I were not."
                    
                    "Oh, Albert, I'm in earnest."
                    "So am I."
                    "And you never asked any one?"
                    "Certainly not."
                    "I might have known that. She'd have grabbed you, quick
                        enough. If I don't give Grace Elliott a piece of my mind when she
                        comes around here again."
                    "I wouldn't pay any attention to anything she
                        says."
                    "I don't, but she has such a crawly, tantilising way of
                        saying things about people she knows you like. Albert, do you ever see
                        Fannie McClellan any more?"
                    "I just see her once in awhile and that's
                        all."
                    "You arefriends at least?"
                    "I suppose so."
                    "You've never had a quarrel or anything like
                        that?"
                    "No."
                    "Then I don't see why you shouldn't be friends.
                        She's a sweet, lovely girl, and I know she was very fond of you,
                        and may be yet, for all I know, and I think it would be awfully mean of you
                        not to treat her just as beautifully as you could. I'm going to
                        invite her to the wedding. Do you think she'll come?"
                    "I don't know, I'm sure."
                    "There's no reason why she shouldn't
                        come?"
                    "None that I know of."
                    
                    "Well, I'm going to invite her, and thenI want you to
                        promise me something, Albert."
                    "I promise. What is it?"
                    "Wellafter we're married I want you to promise to let me
                        invite Fannie to come and call on us. I want to show her that you and Iboth
                        of uslike her just the some as ifwell, as if nothing had ever
                        happened."
                    "Maybe she wouldn't enjoy coming."
                    "Why not? You don't mean that she might be jealous? Why,
                        you conceited thing!"
                    "It isn't that. You don't know her very well, do
                        you?"
                    "But you do, and I want all of your friends to be
                        my friends, and you know you've promised to like all of my
                        friends."
                    "All right, then. We'll have Fannie to dinner as soon as
                        we're settled."
                    "Do you mean it?"
                    "Of course."
                    "It will please her so much."
                    "Yes?"
                    (Snuggling) "And you're the kindest,
                        best-hearted thing that ever lived."
                
                
                
                    THE JUDGE'S SON
                    
                    THE JUDGE'S SON
                    Two men sat by one of the narrow south windows of the Freedom Hotel. They
                        were tipped back in their straight wooden chairs and their feet rested
                        against the scarred sill of the window.
                    One of the men was tall, with a tan-coloured moustache and a goatee. He wore
                        a black slouch hat, which was pulled forward over one eye so that it gave
                        him a suggestion of rural bravado. The other man was younger,
                        hollow-checked, and with hair and beard of dead blackness. His
                        light-coloured stiff hat seemed preposterously out of season, for a slow but
                        steady sift of snow was coming down.
                    Both men wore clothes of careful cut, but the shape had gone from the
                        garments. The elbows were shiny, the vest buttons were not uniform and the
                        fronts were sadly spotted.
                    In the room with the two men were some fifty other men, marked by adversity,
                        most of them holding with weakened pride to some chattel of better days.
                    As many as could find places at the windows sat and looked with fascinated
                        idleness at the rushing  money-makers outside.
                        Others put their backs to the dim light and read from scraps of newspapers.
                        There was a smothering odour of pipe-smoke, which floated in vague ribbons
                        above the clustering heads. Sometimesbut not oftenthe murmur of conversation
                        was broken by laughter.
                    It is a good thing the Freedom Hotel calls itself a hotel, otherwise it would
                        be a lodging-house. These men in the bare "office" were
                        being sheltered at a weekly rate of $1.50, and each had a cubby-hole for a
                        homea mere shell of wood open at the top. The upper floors of the Freedom
                        Hotel were subdivided into these tiny pens. Here the tired and discouraged
                        men came crawling every night. From these boxes the frowsy and unrested men
                        emerged every morning.
                    The wreckage on an ocean beach washes together as if by choice and the wrecks
                        of a city mobilise of their own free will. The man who is down must find
                        some one with whom he can rail at the undeserving prosperous.
                    The Freedom Hotel sheltered a community of equals, all worsted in the fight,
                        some living on the crumbs of a happier period, some abjectly depending on
                        the charity of friends and relatives, and some struggling along on small and
                        unreliable pay.
                    There was a 400-page novel in every life there, but  the condensed stories of the two men at the window must suffice
                        for the present.
                    The older, the one with the slouch hatson of wealthy merchant in Indiana
                        towninherited moneymarriedlearned to gambletook up with Board of Tradewife
                        diedmore reckless gamblingmoved to Chicagowent brokeFreedom Hotel.
                    The younger, with black hair and beardson of a judge in Western cityreared
                        with great care by mothersent to collegeleaned to drinkrepeatedly forgiven
                        by father through the intercession of the mothermother died father cast son
                        from homeson in Chicago, employed in a collection agencywent on a
                        drunkFreedom Hotel.
                    The victim of gambling did most of the talking.
                    "They can't always keep me down, now, you can bet on
                        that," he said, nervously combing his goatee with thumb and finger.
                        "I wish I could have had about ten thousand last week. I'd
                        have shown some of these fellows."
                    "If I had ton thousand I wouldn't chance a cent of
                        it," said the other, his eyes twitching.
                    "Well, I'll beat the game yet, you see if I don't.
                        I've got three or four fellows in this town to get even with
                        fellows that I spent my money on when I had it; fellows that could come to
                        me and get fifty or a hundred  just for the
                        askin' of it, and there ain't one of 'em to-day
                        that'd turn over his finger to help menot one of 'em.
                        That's what you get when you're down, young man. If you
                        want to find out who your friends are, just wait till you go
                        broke."
                    "I know all about it," said the other. With a shaky hand he
                        took the last cigarette from a package.
                    "I was thinkin' when I turned in to my bunk last night,
                        'Well, this is a devil of a place for a man that had a room at the
                        Palmer House, when it was the talk of the whole country'. That was
                        when I used to drive my own trotter and hire a man to take care of him. When
                        I'd come to Chicago, the hotel clerks used to jump over the counter
                        to shake hands with me. If I wanted a steak, I went to Billy
                        Boyle's for it. If I was over on Clark Street and wanted a game, I
                        could get a private roll. It was 'Phil' here and
                        'Phil' there, and nothin' too good for me. Do you
                        think I could go to any one o' them to-day and get a dollar? A
                        dollar! Not a centnot a red cent. That's what you get when
                        you're in hard luck."
                    "You can't tell me anything about it," said the
                        other, in a restrained voice, for his lungs were filled with
                        cigarette-smoke, which he was breathing slowly through his nostrils.
                        "Didn't I go to college with fellows that live right here
                        in this town, and don't they  pass me
                        on the street every day or two without recognising me? Why, when I think
                        that I came of a family thatah, well, it's all right. Money talks
                        here in Chicago, and if you haven't got money you're
                        little better than a tramp."
                    "Well, I'll have it again and I'll make some of
                        these fellows sorry they ever threw me down. I'll make 'em
                        sweat. If I don't" and he ran into profanity.
                    "Here's a telegram for you," said some one at his
                        elbow.
                    It was the "clerk" of the Freedoma short man with an
                        indented nose, who went about in his shirt-sleeves.
                    "For me?" asked the speculator, in surprise.
                    "That's what it says herePhilip Sanderson. It come over
                        from 136."
                    "That's right."
                    "I signed for it."
                    He tore open the envelope and read the message. It seemed that he gazed at it
                        for a full minute without speaking or moving. Then he arose and hurried
                        away. The judge's son rubbed his eyes and felt vainly for another
                        cigarette.
                    "Your partner's gone," said the clerk that
                        evening.
                    "WhoSanderson?" asked the judge's son.
                    "Yes, this afternoon. He didn't have much packin'
                             to do. What do you think? An old aunt of
                        his died down in Indiana and he told me he'd come in for about five
                        thousand."
                    "Well, I'll swear," said the judge's son,
                        "and he didn't leave any word?"
                    "Nope."
                    A week later the judge's son was walking in State Street.
                    The cold north wind was blowing.
                    His summer derby had to be held in place. The other hand was deep in his
                        trousers' pocket.
                    His old sack-coat was tightly buttoned and the collar was turned up. The
                        judge's son seemed to be limping in each foot, but it was not a
                        limp. It was the slouch of utter dejection.
                    He was within thirty feet of the main entrance to the Palmer House when he
                        saw a man come out.
                    The judge's son had to take a second look, to be sure of his own
                        senses. Instead of the old and crumpled slouch there was a new broad-brimmed
                        felt hat of much shapeliness. The winter overcoat was heavy chinchilla, with
                        a velvet collar. Sanderson was smoking a long cigar. He had been shaved
                        recently. His shoes were brightly polished. As he stood back in the
                        sheltered doorway he worked his left hand into a blood-red glove.
                    
                    The judge's son stood some fifteen feet away and hesitated. Then he
                        slunk to the shelter of a column and spoke to his partner.
                    "Well, Sanderson, they seem to be coming pretty easy for
                        you."
                    Sanderson looked at the speaker, squinting through the smoke.
                    He said nothing. His hand being well into the glove, he fastened the clasp at
                        the wrist with a springy snap. With a satisfied lick he turned his cigar
                        once over in his mouth. A flake of ash had fallen on the chinchilla coat. He
                        brushed it off. Then he pushed through the swinging doors and went back into
                        the hotel.
                
                
                
                    HOUSE IN MERCEDES STREET
                    
                    HOUSE IN MERCEDES STREET
                    I am one of a large family. We stand in a row along Mercedes Street. When
                        first I had any knowledge of myself I was a mere skeleton frame-work of
                        scantling. There were six of us, just alike, and we were knee-deep in bright
                        yellow lumber. All day long the workmen crawled over our ribs. I felt the
                        rap-a-tap-tap as I became decently clad in weather-boarding and shingles.
                        They shouldered the clean, sweet-smelling pine through every gaping door and
                        window.
                    At last I was a completed house with the brass knobs glittering and the raw
                        wood hidden under two glossy colours of paint.
                    The shavings and litter were carried away. Tufts of green grass began to show
                        in the trampled front yard. To be sure I had a sort of damp feeling in my
                        joints and was still untidy with the siftings of saw dust and the
                        splatterings of paint and plastering, but I had the pride of knowing that I
                        was as handsome as any other house in Mercedes Street.
                    
                    Since then I have learned by eaves-dropping that Mercedes Street is supposed
                        to be a shabby and uncounted thoroughfare and that our sextette is not in
                        the fashion. One day a very gay little house, with scalloped decorations
                        fastened to it, came along Mercedes Street on rollers and I remember it was
                        very reluctant to take up with our society and had to be dragged a few feet
                        at a time. Sometimes, by lifting myself and peeping, I can see the bulky
                        shapes of large buildings far away. They are behind the clouds of smoke and
                        I do not envy them their largeness. In fact I envy no other house, for
                        contentment has come to me.
                    For a time I was inwardly troubled. The first blow to my pride came soon
                        after the painters had given me the last finishing caress.
                    A man and a woman stopped in front of me and stared critically. The woman
                        said, "Dear me!" in a tone of such disappointment that I
                        felt a tremor in every rafter. They unlocked the front door and walked
                        through the rooms, their foot-falls starting the hollow echoes, and the
                        woman found fault with me. The man said they would have to take me, with all
                        my imperfections.
                    The two were childless and out of luck, and they seemed to regard me as a
                        place of exile, so how was  I to cheer them
                        when they always wore a frown for me? I had hoped to be loved, but I was
                        merely tolerated. Still, I was rather glad they came. I will admit that it
                        felt good to get the carpets and rugs and shiny furniture and looped
                        curtains, for a house, after being well furnished, has the same satisfaction
                        that a man has after he has dined properly.
                    The inner warmth drove away the lingering chill and damp, and it was
                        certainly pleasanter to glow with lamps than to stand lonesomely in the
                        darkness.
                    Yet I was constantly saddened by the thought that those whom I held and
                        sheltered and gathered under my warm plastering, even as a hen gathers her
                        brood, did not think well of me.
                    The woman used to have an occasional caller, to whom she would apologise for
                        my poor dimensions (think of it!), and she would say that the neighbourhood
                        was unattractive. I will confess that I was indignant. Leaving my own merits
                        out of the question, there is certainly no excuse for saying evil things of
                        Mercedes Street. The men work for their money and the women love their
                        children. And such children! I have seen the street white with them on a
                        Sunday evening, for every little girl had a white dress and every boy a
                        white waist. The men sat in the open air and smoked. The women called gayly
                        from door-step to  door-step, and the children
                        fluttered everywhere like sparrows. It has seemed to me on such a night,
                        that I would rather be here in Mercedes Street than anywhere else.
                    When the unhappy couple moved out one day in early spring I did not care so
                        much, although that night I had to stand in conspicuous gloom and feel the
                        sweep of cold draughts. The woman said she hoped she would never see me
                        again, but the man, as I believe, did not feel so unkindly toward me. The
                        waggons disappeared down the street, but wherever they stopped, I
                        don't believe that house will be a home for the man.
                    After my first family went away there followed a cheerless month. Company is
                        company, even though it offend you. I had the feeling of being neglected
                        when I saw the smoke curl from other chimneys and heard the children
                        shouting at the houses across the way.
                    But one dayand I must always call it the best of daysa pudgy, red-faced
                        little man stopped squarely in front of me and said,
                        "Oho!"
                    I think all of my front panes must have crinkled back a smile at him, for I
                        liked this little man.
                    Then there came into view a plump woman with two red spots on her cheeks and
                        a little boy who had his  mother's
                        cheeks and his father's wrinkly eyes, and two very small girls with
                        braided hair, who hopped and skipped like springy little frogs.
                    "Is it the place, Henry?" asked the woman.
                    "Yessee," he replied, pointing to my number.
                    "Isn't it fine? All this nice grass in front."
                    "But behind!" exclaimed Henry. "Ah, behindfor a
                        gardenbigplenty of room!"
                    "Is this where we're going to live?" shouted the
                        boy, dancing on the front stoop.
                    "Maybeyes," replied the father, laughing. Then the boy
                        laughed and the mother laughed and the two little girls laughed, and for the
                        first time I wanted to laugh too, although it was utterly preposterous for a
                        house to expect to laugh.
                    That day, within the hour, my self-respect came back and I fear I was almost
                        as vain as I was on the day when the painters got through with me.
                    The laughing family said my rooms were the prettiest in the world, my closets
                        the snuggest and my kitchen the tidiest. So I knew they were coming back,
                        and they did come, with some of the queerest bales and chests and bundles
                        that I had ever seen on a waggon in Mercedes Street. The furniture was new,
                        but the bales and chests and bundles had come from the old country, and,
                        being unpacked, they brought forth  strange
                        dishes, cutlery, pictures, clothing, bedding and the like, all cumbersome
                        and showing service, but mightily home-like.
                    Once more I felt my rafters warmed, and once more the light from my windows
                        fell across the sidewalk where the young women and their sweethearts
                        promenaded slowly each pleasant evening and held hands secretively.
                    The new family loved me! So, of course, I had to love the new family, because
                        a real home always tries to multiply the affection brought into it.
                    Summer was corning. Now the open windows were filled with plants, and the
                        grass spread over the front-yard, covering the bare spots. The whole family
                        went gardening in the back-yard, and there was such shouting and laughing at
                        work that all the work was like play.
                    I came to know the family secrets. In the old country the little man had been
                        poor and the family lived in two rooms, and did not have meat oftener than
                        once a week. They would tell of the old country sometimes, and when they sat
                        down to eat the wife would say: "Oh, Henry, in the old country this
                        would be a holiday feast."
                    What a stroke of fortune to be found by these people, who could delight in
                        having a house of their own,  with a garden at
                        the back and the vines beginning to climb in front!
                    No wonder I was proud. They said the best things about me, and wrote about me
                        to their friends in the old country, and they even had me photographed. That
                        day I squared up and looked my best, for I could not renumber that any other
                        house in Mercedes Street had been photographed.
                    Through fall and winter they kept me warmed with their simple goodness, and I
                        was so grateful that on windy nights I would soothe the children to sleep.
                        When the wind whistled at my eaves I would change the whistle to a crooning
                        sound, which none but the children could understand, and which is never
                        heard except where there are children to listen.
                    The three would lie in their beds and listen to the droning lullaby, and soon
                        all three would go to sleep smiling. They thought it was the wind singing to
                        them, but I did my part, for I am sure the song did not sound the same at
                        any other house in Mercedes Street.
                    Spring and summer came again. The vines hung in showers of green around the
                        front windows and the children sang in the street.
                    One morning I drowsed in greater happiness than  usual, for now there were four children instead of three.
                    Such bantering as they had! He said it was his and she said it was hers, and
                        I longed to speak up and say it was mine also.
                    It is winter now. The fourth one sits strapped at the window and laughs at
                        the children outside.
                    I believe I am the proudest house in Mercedes Street.
                
                
                
                    HICKEY BOY AND THE GRIP
                    
                    HICKEY BOY AND THE GRIP
                    "Me with bunches of the grip," said the Hickey boy.
                        "Me the livin' drug-stare."
                    "But you have recovered sufficiently to smoke a
                        cigarette."
                    "Gee! I need my student's lamp now and then, no matter how
                        rocky I'm feelin', but it did look for a while as if
                        I'd have to chop on these little paper things for fair. They had me
                        in the feathers with many brands of dope shot into me."
                    "You were taken down on Tuesday, I believe."
                    "I was taken down and up and side couples cross over. I got it
                        everywheres at the same minute. The gong sounded Monday afternoon. I shook
                        hands with one of them microbe boys and then it was us main' it and
                        I've been against the ropes ever since. Say, do you stand for that
                        talk about some eight-legged little dingus gettin' into you and
                        makin' all this grip? I see a piece about it in the Sunday paper
                        with a picture of something that looked like a soft-shell craba kind of a
                        nervous crab, reachin' in all directions. When  I went in to sec Doc Tuesday morning, I says, 'Doc,
                        have I got any of theme boys travellin' beat in my
                        system?' he says to me, 'You've probably got a
                        million of 'em rununagin' around inside of you this
                        minute!' 'Well,' I says, 'if
                        that's the case, pick out the trimmins'. What chance have
                        I got against a million o' them fellows? They'll have me
                        gnawed out inside till I'm hollow as a drum.' Doc says,
                        'I'm goin' to kill 'em'
                        'Well,' I says, 'you call 'em outside
                        before you kill 'em. I don't want to be a walkin'
                        morgue, with a million o' them grip umptaloriums laid out inside
                        o' me' Not on your leaf-lards. What is it you call
                        'em?"
                    "Germs."
                    "That's the name! I ought to remember that. All
                        you've got to do is think of Germans. Doc give me a grand little
                        talk about them germs. He was handin' me words that nobody ever
                        heard before. He earned his dollar all right. You ought to have heard him
                        givin' it to me about the mucous membranes and the broncho bazazas
                        gettin' their wires crossed with the wollyollopis down in the
                        gazalium. Ooh! Poor talk! Poor talk! When he got through tellin' me
                        what I had and spread me from the case note, my only hope then was to get
                        home before I croaked. I didn't want to fall over in the street and
                        make trouble for any strangers. You ought to seen me. The lumps all  red an' a tongue that felt like e.
                        rug. I'm livin' at my sister's house,
                        an' her, yon know, wiser'n any doctor. Oh, easy! Out in
                        the kitchen, cookin' up stuff for me. When she brought it in I
                        looked it over an' says: 'No, not unless you hurry it into
                        me when I'm asleep.' She says: 'You
                        don't eat this. This is a poultice for your chest.' So me
                        up against this stuff an' hollerin' plenty. I thought it
                        was all off. 'Here,' I says, 'from now on we
                        scratch the home doctorin'. I'll take the stuff that Doc
                        give me an' let it go at that.' Could I stop her? Not for
                        a minute. Think o' the handicap, too. Me laid out on the sofa
                        an' her sneakin' on me every little while to get
                        somethin' into me before I had a chance to make a fight. If
                        I'd took all the stuff she fixed up for mesay, me feet first with
                        three on a side! Easy. I had to talk right to her to keep her away, too. I
                        says: 'I don't want to start nothin' in the
                        Hickey family, but if you try to shoot any more poison into me I can sec
                        myself swingin' on you.' She says: 'Now,
                        I'm tellin' you, this'll do you good.'
                        'You give it to your husband,' I says. 'You
                        don't know but what them microbes live on this stuff
                        you've fixed up here,' I says. 'I'm
                        after 'em with Doc in my corner, and if you don't keep out
                        o' the ring I may forget that you're my sister.'
                        Well, that held her for a while."
                    "Did you have it bad?"
                    
                    "I had it worse'n that. Monday afternoon I felt like
                        I'd been run over by an ice-wagon three or four times. All the
                        insides o' me wuz lumpy. I could'a' swore
                        I'd swallowed a couple o' dumbbells and they'd
                        settled in my back, an' the head was a lily. No eyes at all. Just a
                        couple o' poached eggs, that's all. Me settin'
                        around on my shoulder-blades lookin' like one o' these
                        bamboo boys full o' hop. I couldn't see a thing to it.
                        Monday night it was all in-fightin' with the blanket an'
                        dodgin' things that come up over the footboard. I'd get up
                        and try to cool the block with a wet towel, an' then you'd
                        see the steam comin' off of me. Then I'd fall over on the
                        mattress an' ride in the merry-go-round for a while. I figured that
                        I was booked for the crazy-house or the bone-orchard, I couldn't
                        tell which. It was Tuesday mornin' that I see Doc an' he
                        said nothin' ailed me except I had a zoo runnin' around
                        inside o' me, so I bought everything they could spare at the corner
                        drug store an' come home to seta few traps for these eight-legged
                        fiends that had moved in on me. It was one kind every two hours and another
                        every three hours an' then a few at night and a nice red-pepper
                        plaster that'd help some. I don't think I was right in my
                        nut from the minute I starts to go against all these allypozzacks in the
                        blue boxerinos."
                    
                    "I seethey gave you a sort of ringing in the ears."
                    "Ohow! I heard the fire-bells all night. Doc must have slipped me a
                        few knock-out drops. They had me all covered up so as to sweat it out, they
                        said. I didn't see how they could sweat out any o' these
                        things that's got claws like a lobster. I must
                        'a' reduced seventeen pounds trying to make it too hot for
                        them germs. When I did get to sleep I had a dream that was all right. It was
                        a fine little dream an' it landed me cross-ways of the bed,
                        tryin' to bite a hole in the pillow. Now listen! Here's
                        the kind of a dream you have when the quinine an' the germs get
                        together. Me a walkin' down the street, when I comes to one
                        o' these gangs repairin' this block pavin,'
                        understand? You've seen 'em where they put down them
                        blocks and push the gravel in between an' then pour this hot tar
                        over the whole thing. There was a copper standin' on the corner
                        watchin' the gang work, an' when they see me everybody
                        hollers an' comes at me on the run. I didn't know what was
                        doin', but I put up a swell race for about seven miles, then me in
                        the gravel an' about fourteen on top. Well, what do you think they
                        done? This is just to show where the stuff put use. They drags me back
                        an' chucks me into Mr. Big-iron-thing that they melt the tar in.
                        Hot? Holy sufferin' mackerel!  Me
                        pushin' up the lid, you know, an' putting out the coco to
                        get a little fresh air, an' the copper giving me an awful belt
                        across the head every time an' sayin',
                        'G'wan, get back in there!' I'd duck
                        back in and do my two or three minutes settin' up to my neck in
                        this stuff, boilin' hotunderstand? an' then up with the
                        lid and take another wallop. Oh, I was havin' a lovely time. I
                        guess I must have hollered, becuz the first thing I remember was the sister
                        wras'lin' with me an' tellin' me to lay
                        down an' keep quiet. I made a couple o' passes at her
                        an' told her to give me a gallon o' water. She says:
                        'You seem to be a little feverish.' 'Oh, I
                        don't know,' I says, all the time tryin' to crawl
                        up on top o' the head-board. Oh, me up in the air! Say, if
                        that's what them little grip things does to you, I'm glad
                        they don't grow the size o' rabbits."
                
                
                
                    THE SET OF POE
                    
                    THE SET OF POE
                    Mr. Waterby remarked to his wife: "I'm still tempted by
                        that set of Poe. I saw it in the window to-day, marked down to fifteen
                        dollars."
                    "Yes?" said Mrs. Waterby, with a sudden gasp of emotion, it
                        seemed to him.
                    "YesI believe I'll have to get it."
                    "I wouldn't if I were you, Alfred," she said.
                        "You have so many books now."
                    "I know I have, my dear, but I haven't any set of Poe, and
                        that's what I've been wanting for a long time. This
                        edition I was telling you about is beautifully gotten up."
                    "Oh, I wouldn't buy it, Alfred," she repeated, and
                        there was a note of pleading earnestness in her voice.
                        "It's so much money to spend for a few
                        books."
                    "Well, I know, but" and then he paused, for the lack of
                        words to express his mortified surprise.
                    Mr. Waterby had tried to be an indulgent husband. He took a selfish pleasure
                        in giving, and found it more blessed than receiving. Every salary day he
                        turned over to Mrs. Waterby a fixed sum for household  expenses. He added to this an allowance for her spending
                        money. He set aside a small amount for his personal expenses and deposited
                        the remainder in the bank.
                    He flattered himself that he approximated the model husband.
                    Mr. Waterby had no costly habits and no prevailing appetite for anything
                        expensive. Like every other man, he had one or two hobbies, and one of his
                        particular hobbies was Edgar Allan Poe. He believed that Poe, of all
                        American writers, was the one unmistakable "genius."
                    The word "genius" has been bandied around the country until
                        it has come to be applied to a long-haired man out of work or a stout lady
                        who writes poetry for the rural press. In the case of Poe, Mr. Waterby
                        maintained that "genius" meant one who was not governed by
                        the common mental processes, but "who spoke from inspiration, his
                        mind involuntarily taking superhuman flight into the realm of pure
                        imagination," or something of that sort. At any rate, Mr. Waterby
                        liked Poe and he wanted a set of Poe. He allowed himself not more than one
                        luxury a year, and he determined that this year the luxury should be a set
                        of Poe.
                    Therefore, imagine the hurt to his feelings when his  wife objected to his expending fifteen dollars for that which
                        he coveted above anything else in the world.
                    As he went to his work that day he reflected on Mrs. Waterby's
                        conduct. Did she not have her allowance of spending money? Did he ever find
                        fault with her extravagance? Was he an unreasonable husband in asking that
                        he be allowed to spend this small sum for that which would give him many
                        hours of pleasure, and which would belong to Mrs. Waterby as much as to
                        him?
                    He told himself that many a husband would have bought the books without
                        consulting his wife. But he (Waterby) had deferred to his wife in all
                        matters touching family finances, and he said to himself, with a tincture of
                        bitterness in his thoughts, that probably he had put himself into the
                        attitude of a mere dependent.
                    For had she not forbidden him to buy a few books for himself? Well, no, she
                        had not forbidden him, but it amounted to the same thing. She had declared
                        that she was firmly opposed to the purchase of Poe.
                    Mr. Waterby wondered if it were possible that he was just beginning to know
                        his wife. Was she a selfish woman at heart? Was she complacent and
                        good-natured and kind only while she was having her own way?
                        Wouldn't she prove to be an entirely different  sort of woman if he should do as many husbands dospend his
                        income on clubs and cigars and private amusement, and gave her the pickings
                        of small change?
                    Nothing in Mr. Waterby's whole experience as it married man had so
                        wrenched his sensibilities and disturbed his faith as Mrs.
                        Waterby's objection to the purchase of the set of Poe. There was
                        but one way to account for it. She wanted all the money for herself, or else
                        she wanted him to put it into the bank so that she could come into it after
                        hebut this was too monstrous.
                    However, Mrs. Waterby's conduct helped to give strength to Mr.
                        Waterby's meanest suspicions.
                    Two or three days after the first conversation she asked: "You
                        didn't buy that set of Poe, did you, Alfred?"
                    "No, I didn't buy it," he answered, as coldly and
                        with as much hauteur as possible.
                    He hoped to hear her say: "Well, why don't you go and get
                        it? I'm sure that you want it, and I'd like to see you buy
                        something for yourself once in a while."
                    That would have shown the spirit of a loving and unselfish wife.
                    But she merely said. "That's right: don't buy
                        it," and he was utterly unhappy, for he realised that he  had married a woman who did not love him and
                        who simply desired to use him as a pack-horse for all house-hold
                        burdens.
                    As soon as Mr. Waterby had learned the horrible truth about his wife he began
                        to recall little episodes dating back years, and now he pieced them together
                        to convince himself that he was a deeply wronged person.
                    Small at the time and almost unnoticed, they now accumulated to prove that
                        Mrs. Waterby had no real anxiety for her husband's happiness. Also,
                        Mr. Waterby began to observe her more closely, and he believed that he found
                        new evidences of her unworthiness. For one thing, while he was in gloom over
                        his discovery and harassed by doubts of what the future might reveal to him,
                        she was content and even-tempered.
                    The holiday season approached and Mr. Waterby made a resolution. He decided
                        that if she would not permit him to spend a little money on himself he would
                        not buy the customary Christmas present for her.
                    "Selfishness is a game at which two can play," he said.
                    Furthermore, he determined that if she asked him for any extra money for
                        Christmas he would say: 
                        "I'm sorry, my dear, but I can't spare any. I am
                        so hard up that I can't even afford to buy a few books
                        I've been wanting a long time. Don't you remember that you
                        told me that I couldn't afford to buy that set of
                        Poe?"
                    Could anything be more biting as to sarcasm or more crushing as to logic?
                    He rehearsed this speech and had it all ready for her, and he pictured to
                        himself her humiliation and surprise at discovering that he had some spirit
                        after all and a considerable say-so whenever money was involved.
                    Unfortunately for his plan, she did not ask for any extra spending money, and
                        so he had to rely on the other mode of punishment. He would withhold the
                        expected Christmas present. In order that she might fully understand his
                        purpose, he would give presents to both of the children.
                    It was a harsh measure, he admitted, but perhaps it would teach her to have
                        some consideration for the wishes of others.
                    It must be said that Mr. Waterby was not wholly proud of his revenge when he
                        arose on Christmas morning. He felt that he had accomplished his purpose,
                        and he told himself that his motives had been good and pure, but still he
                        was not satisfied with himself.
                    
                    He went to the dining-room, and there on the table in front of his plate was
                        a long paper box, containing ten books, each marked "Poe."
                        It was the edition he had coveted.
                    "What's this?" he asked, winking slowly, for his
                        mind could not grasp in one moment the fact of his awful shame.
                    "I should think you ought to know, Alfred," said Mrs.
                        Waterby, flushed, and giggling like a school-girl.
                    "Oh, it was you;"
                    "My goodness, you've had me so frightened! That first day,
                        when you spoke of buying them and I told you not to, I was just sure that
                        you suspected some-thing. I bought them a week before that."
                    "Yesyes," said Mr. Waterby, feeling the salt-water in his
                        eyes. At that moment he had the soul of a wretch being whipped at the
                        stake.
                    "I was determined not to ask you for any money to pay for your own
                        presents," Mrs. Waterby continued. "Do you know I had to
                        save for you and the children out of my regular allowance. Why, last week I
                        nearly starved you, and you never noticed it at all. I was afraid you
                        would."
                    "No, Ididn't notice it," said Mr. Waterby,
                        brokenly, for he was confused and giddy.
                    
                    This self-sacrificing angeland he had bought no Christmas present for
                        her!
                    It was a fearful situation, and he lied his way out of it.
                    "How did you like your present?" he
                        asked.
                    "Why, I haven't seen it yet," she said, looking
                        across at him in surprise.
                    "You haven't? I told them to send it up
                        yesterday."
                    The children were shouting and laughing over their gifts in the next room,
                        and he felt it his duty to lie for their sake.
                    "Well, don't tell me what it is," interrupted Mrs.
                        Waterby. "Wait until it comes."
                    "I'll go after it."
                    He did go after it, although he had to drag a jeweller away from his home on
                        Christmas-day and have him open his great safe. The ring which he selected
                        was beyond his means, it is true. but when a man has to buy back his
                        self-respect, the price is never too high.
                
                
                
                    DUBLEY, '89
                    
                    DUBLEY, '89
                    Mr. Dubley, '89, was flattered to receive an invitation to attend
                        the annual dinner of the Beverly alumni and respond to the toast,
                        "College Days." Mr. Dubley, class of '89, in his
                        days pointed out as a real ornament to the campus, had allowed his interest
                        in college matters to ooze away from him. He had been in Chicago three years
                        and had not attended an annual dinner, but now, being invited to speak, he
                        felt it his duty to step in and accept the honour.
                    See Mr. Dubley in his room at nightwriting, writing. He was writing about
                        "College Days"but he erased much more than he wrote. When
                        he had completed a sentence he would read it aloud to make sure that it had
                        the swing and cadence so pleasing to the ear.
                    One week before the dinner and Mr. Dubley's speech regarding
                        "College Days" was a finished thing. It had been
                        typewritten, with broad spaces, and there were parenthetical reminders such
                        as: (Pause), (full breath), (gesture with right hand), etc. Mr. Dubley had
                        witnessed the pitiable flunks resulting from a state of unpreparedness, and
                        he was not going to rely upon  momentary
                        inspiration. He was going to rehearse. every part of his speech, and when he
                        arose to respond to the toast "College Days" that speech
                        would be a part of his mental fibre.
                    If Mr. Dubley talked mutteringly as he hid behind his newspaper on the
                        elevated train or made strange gestures as he hurried along Dearborn Street,
                        it was not to be inferred that Mr. Dubley had lost his mind. He was
                        practisingthat is all.
                    The speech:
                    "Mr. President and Gentlemen: The toastmaster has told you that I am
                        to speak of 'College Days,' a subject that must arouse the
                        tenderest and sweetest memories in the bosom of every one here. When I look
                        about me and see all these faces beaming with good-fellowship and fraternal
                        love, I realise that there are no ties as lasting as those that we form in
                        the bright days of our youth, within the college halls. No matter what
                        experiences may befall us after we have gone out into the world, we can
                        always look back with pleasure on the days that we spent in college.
                    
                        
                            "'You may break, you may shatter, the
                                vase if you will,
                        
                        
                            But the scent of the roses will cling' round it
                                still.'
                        
                    
                    "I sometimes think that in the rush and hurry of business life, here
                        in this great metropolis, we make a  serious
                        mistake in neglecting to keep up the friendships formed in college. I tell
                        you, fellow-alumni, we ought to extend a helping hand to every man who comes
                        to this city from old Beverly. Let us keep alive the holy torch ignited at
                        the altar of youthful loyalty.
                    "The enthusiasm manifested here this evening proves that you indorse
                        what I have just said. I know that your hearts beat true to our dear alma
                        mater; that other institutions, larger and more pretentious, perhaps, can
                        never hold the same place in your affections.
                    "Oh, that we might again gather on the campus in the same company
                        that was once so dear to us, there to sing the old college songs, to feel
                        the hand-clasp of our college mates, and listen to the sweet chiming of the
                        chapel bell. These are memories to be treasured. In the years to come we
                        shall find that they are the brightest pages in life's history.
                    "Gentlemen, I have no wish to tire you. There are other speakers to
                        follow me. In conclusion I merely wish to relate a little anecdote which is
                        suggested to me by the opening remarks of our worthy toastmaster. It seems
                        there was an Irishman who had been in this country but a few days, and he
                        was looking for work, so he said to himself one morning: 'Begob, Oi
                        think Oi'll go down be the dock to see if I can't be
                        afther  gettin' a job
                        unloadin' a ship.' So he went down to the dock, but
                        couldn't get any work. While he was standing than looking down into
                        the water, a man in a diving-suit came up through the waves and climbed up
                        on the dock. Pat looked at him in great surprise and said: 'Begob,
                        if Oi'd known where to get a suit loike that, I'd have
                        walked over mesilf.'"
                    During the gale of laughter which was to follow this story, Mr. Dubley would
                        sit down.
                    Now, in order that he might not become confused as to the order of his
                        paragraphs and to guard against the remote possibility of his forgetting
                        some part of the address, Mr. Dubley had the opening words of each paragraph
                        jotted down on a card, to which he might refer if necessary:
                    The president has told, etc.
                    I sometimes think, etc.
                    The enthusiasm manifested, etc.
                    Oh, that we might, etc.
                    Gentlemen, I have no wish, etc.
                    The annual dinner of the Beverly alumni was an unqualified success.
                    Three tables were filled. Two of these were long tables joining a short
                        transverse table, at which not the chairman and the speakers. Dubley,
                        '89, was at this head table.
                    
                    Dinner came on with a great clatter. The mandolin orchestra played
                        "coon" songs and the young men bellowed the choruses. An
                        ex-star of the football team was carried thrice round the table on the
                        billowing shoulders of his friends, who chanted and rahrahed and stepped
                        high.
                    Mr. Dubley, '89, who was dieting and abstaining, in order that he
                        might be in good voice and have possession of his faculties when the
                        critical moment came, began to suspect that the assemblage was in no mood to
                        give serious attention to the memories of college days. His fellow-alumni
                        sat low in their chairs, with their white fronts very convex, and pounded
                        the tables rhythmically, causing the small coffee-cups to jump and
                        jingle.
                    Cigars succeeded cigarettes. A blue fog obscured the far end of the double
                        perspective of long tables, and the hurrah was unabated.
                    The chairman pounded on the table.
                    "I am glad," he shouted, "to see such a large and
                        disorderly mob here this evening. (Cheers.) I understand
                        that Mr. Dubley of the class of '89 has something to say to you,
                        and I will now call on him."
                    And Mr. Dubley arose. The clamorous applause helped to encourage him. He took
                        a drink of water.
                    A voice: "What is the gentleman's name,
                        please?"
                    
                    The chairman: "Dubleythis is Mr. Dubley of the class of
                        '89."
                    A voice: "Never heard of him before." (Laughter.)
                    Dubley: "Mr. President and gentlemen."
                    A voice: "'Mr. President and
                        gentlemen'?"
                    Another voice: "Yeswhy this distinction?"
                    Dubley (Smiling feebly): "Of courseyou
                        understandwhen I say 'Mr. President and gentlemen' I
                        don't mean to insinuate that the president is not a gentleman. I
                        think he is a gentleman."
                    A voice: "You think he is?"
                    Dubley: "The toastmaster has told you that I am to speak of
                        'College Days'."
                    A voice: "I didn't hear him."
                    Dubley: "Well, heahshould have announced that as the subject of my
                        toast. (Cries of "All right," "Go
                            ahead," "Make good.")'College
                        Days', a subject that must arouse the tenderest and sweetest
                        memories in the bosom of every one here." (Applause.)
                    A voice: "Say, this fellow's eloquent." (Laughter.)
                    Dubley: "Tenderest and sweetest memories in the bosom of every one
                        here."
                    A voice: "No encores."
                    
                    Another voice: "You said that once."
                    Dubley: "Pardon me; Iah"
                    A voice: "Go ahead! you're all rightmaybe."
                    Dubley: "When I look around me and see all these faces beaming with
                        good-fellowship and fraternal love I"
                    Grand chorus: "Ah-h-h-h-h!"
                    Dubley: "I say, when I look around"
                    A voice: "That's twice you've looked
                        around."
                    Dubley: "I realise that there are no ties as lasting as those that
                        we form in the bright days of our youth within the college halls. (Cries of "Good boy" and "Right you
                            are, old rox.") No matter what experiences may befall
                        us"
                    Distant voice: "Mr. Toastmaster! Mr. Toastmaster!"
                    Chairman: "Well, what is it?"
                    Distant voice: "There are several of us down at this end of the
                        table who did not catch the gentleman's name. He is making a good
                        speech, and we want to know who he islet go of my coat!"
                    The Chairman: "Gentlemen, I will announce for the third time that
                        the speaker who now has the floor is Mr. Harold Dubley of the class of
                        '89, sometimes known as the boy orator of Danville."
                    A voice: "Harold's such a sweet name."
                    
                    The Chairman: "I may add that Mr. Dubley has prepared his speech
                        with great care and I hope you'll give him your quiet
                        attention." (Cries of "All right!"
                            and "Let 'er go!")
                    Dubley (hesitatingly):
                    
                        "'You may break, you may shatter, the vase
                                if you will,
                        
                        
                            But the scent of the roses will cling round it
                                still.'
                        
                    
                    A voice: "Oh, Lizzie!" (Prolonged
                        howls.)
                    Dubley: "I sometimes think"
                    A voice: "You don't look it." (Renewed laughter.)
                    Dubley: "I say, I sometimes think"
                    A voice: "Did anybody else ever say it?"
                    Dubley: "that in the rush and hurry of business life here in the
                        great metropolis we make a serious mistake in neglecting to keep up the
                        friendships formed in college. (Indian yell. Some one throws a
                            stalk of celery at Dubley.) Ahlet us keep alive the holy torch
                        ignited at the altar of youthful loyalty."
                    A voice: "Mr. Toastmaster!"
                    The Chairman: "What is it?"
                    A voice: "I propose three cheers for the holy torch." (Tremendous cheering and laughter.)
                    Dubley: "The enthusiasm manifested here this  evening proves that you indorse what I have just
                        said."
                    A voice: "You haven't said anything yet." (Cries of "Order!" and "Give him a
                            chance.")
                    Dubley: "I know that your heartsI know that your
                        hearts"
                    One of the rioters (arising): "Mr. Toastmaster, I
                        move you that Mr. Jubley or Gubley or whatever his name is, be directed to
                        omit all anatomical references. He should remember that there are gentlemen
                        present."
                    The Chairman: "I have every confidence in Mr. Dubley's
                        sense of propriety and must ask him to continue."
                    Dubley (hesitating and referring to his card):
                        "OhOh that we mightmight again gather on the campus"
                    A voice: "Wouldn't that be nice?"
                    Dubley: "in the same company that was once so dear to us, there to
                        sing the old college songs, to"
                    A voice: "Mr. Toastmaster!"
                    The Chairman: "What is it?"
                    The voice: "I suggest that Mr. Bubley sing one of those college
                        songs to which he refers with so much feeling."
                    
                    The Chairman: "Again I will inform the company that the
                        speaker's name is not Bubley, but Dubley."
                    A voice: "With the accent on the
                        'Dub'."
                    The Chairman: "Mr. Dubley has promised to sing a song if you will
                        permit him to finish his speech." (Cries of
                            "All right!" "Go ahead.")
                    Dubley (Once more referring to his card):
                        "Gentlemen, I have no wish to tire you. (Cries of
                            "Hear! hear!") There are other
                        speakers"
                    A voice: "You bet there are!"
                    Dubley: "Erin conclusion, I merely wish to relate a little anecdote
                            (Cries of "Ah-h-h-h!") which is
                        suggested to me by the opening remarks of our worthy toastmaster. (Laughter.) It seems there was an Irishman (Groans) who had been in this country but a few days and he was
                        looking for work." (Loud laughter.)
                    The Chairman: "I will have to ask the gentlemen to come to order.
                        Mr. Dubley hasn't finished his story yet."
                    Dubley: "As I say, this Irishman was looking for work, so he said to
                        himself one morning, 'Begob, Oi think Oi'll go down be the
                        dock to see if I can't be after getting a job un"
                    A voice: "'ster Toastmaster!"
                    The Chairman: "What is it?"
                    
                    The voice: "A point of order."
                    The Chairman: "State your point."
                    The voice: "The gentleman is telling an Irish story with a Swedish
                        dialect."
                    The Chairman: "The point is well taken. If Mr. Dubley wishes to go
                        ahead with his anecdote, he will please use an Irish dialect."
                    "Dubley (On the verge of collapse):
                        "Well, Mr. Toastmaster, the story's nearly over. (Cries of "Hooray!") All there was to it
                        is that while the Irishman was at the dock he saw a diver in a divingsuit
                        come up out of the water and he thought, of courseI should have told you
                        that this Irishman had lately come over from the old countrythenwellhe saw
                        the diver and he thought the diver had walked over from Ireland, so he said
                            "(General uproar, during settch Dubley dodges a
                            French roll. Some one pulls him into a chair.)
                    Dublev: "But I hadn't finished my story."
                    The man next to him: "Yes, you had."
                    Although the toastmaster referred to Mr. Dubley's speech in very
                        complimentary terms, Dubley will always have his doubts.
                
                
                
                    THE MONEY PRESENT
                    
                    THE MONEY PRESENT
                    Bless the little ones! We must remember them at Christmas, and what could be
                        more appropriate to the glad season than a small money deposit in some
                        reliable bank.
                    We are a business people. We admit it. Why not give our children a long,
                        running start toward a business education?
                    The Noah's Ark animals became scattered and splintered. The drums
                        are punctured and the castiron fire engine goes into the scrap-heap before
                        May 1st, but the money in the bank endures as a permanent asset.
                    Candy sometimes causes stomach-ache and the nuts of commerce contain such a
                        large percentage of oil that a small child having partaken too freely
                        becomes oleaginous, and complains of twinges in the digestive regions. Even
                        books lose their value after a first reading and are pushed away and
                        neglected.
                    But the money in the bank never plays out. It is right there, ready to be
                        borrowed by papa if he chances to run short and overdraw, his own account.
                             And there is no hurry about returning it,
                        because the money is always deposited on condition that it cannot be
                        withdrawn until the child is twenty-one.
                    Picture: It is the cold grey of Christmas morning. The youngster has slept
                        uneasily and has seen Santa Claus, with smoky breath and frosty coat,
                        peeking into his room. In his fitful naps he has reviewed a procession of
                        red sleds and stood under a festoon of steel skates, tempered to a handsome
                        blue.
                    At last his eyelids part reluctantly and the first light of morning is
                        squared out at the window. His heart gives a few thumps and he squirms among
                        the warm covers, shaking off his drowsiness and hoping hard that there will
                        be something in the stocking.
                    This is Christmas morning at last! He has been counting the mornings,
                        "Seven more until Christmas," and then "Six more
                        until Christmas" and so on until it is not even one more morning
                        until Christmas, for the day and the morning have come. He wonders if the
                        skates are there. He is impatient to find out, and yet almost afraid to slip
                        out in the cool ghostly silence and investigate. Not that he is afraid of
                        the shadows and the stillness, but he is faltering at this last moment and
                        wondering if his very politic remarks in regard to skates, a steam engine
                        and plenty of candy were taken seriously.
                    
                    He cannot lie there and struggle with uncertainty. His two bare feet strike
                        the rug simultaneously and he patters swiftly to the front room.
                    There hangs the stockinglimp and empty. The hot tears blind his eyes and he
                        has a smothery feeling at the throat. With a despairing sniffle he seizes
                        the stocking andwhat is this? There is something inside, after all.
                    Hope rises faintly within him. He draws out a little hand-book and sees on
                        the first page, in a firm business hand, the entry, "Cash,
                        $5."
                    Oh, what a sweep of joy engulfs the young soul at that moment! He has not
                        been forgotten by good old Santy! No indeed! He has five dollars locked up
                        in the bank.
                    Although he will be unable to get at the money, the knowledge that it is in
                        the custody of a responsible corporation and can be withdrawn in fifteen
                        years, should be sufficient to warm the imagination of any child and set the
                        carols to singing in his heart.
                    With what ecstasy he scampers away to tell papa and mamma of his great good
                        fortune. He waves the bank-book above his head and his gleeful shouts break
                        the dull silence of dawn. What cares he now for skates, picture-books, nuts
                        or candy?
                    "Oh, look, papa!" he exclaims. "See! I have five
                             dollars deposited to my credit with the
                        savings department of the Herculan$aEeum Bank and Fundamental Reserve Trust
                        Company! Am I not to be congratulated?"
                    Witness, also, the glad scene after breakfast.
                    Papa bas taken little Robbie on his lap and together they are figuring out
                        the compound interest on $5 for a period of fifteen years, at 4 per cent.
                        per annum.
                    How the little one's eyes sparkle with understanding as he studies
                        the long row of figures and realises that within the next twelve months his
                        deposit will earn twenty cents interest.
                    While he is at school, striving to improve his mind, and while he is playing
                        with his youthful companions, perhaps forgetting his deposit in the
                        excitement of the moment, his money will be increasing at the rate of one
                        and two-thirds cents a month.
                    What a child needs is a bank account. When a boy is six years old it is time
                        that he be made to grapple with the sombre responsibilities of
                        commercialism. If he weeps and does not seem to feel the advantage of having
                        five dollars secreted in a bank, explain to him the beauties of business
                        economy and load him down with maxims.
                    What a Christmas we could have if parents would  refrain from giving their children boxes of candy, sacks of nuts, fairy
                        tales, winking dolls, sets of dishes, games, building blocks, mechanical
                        toys, jumping jacks and such fripperies, and, instead, gave each child a
                        hand-written certificate of deposit! Santa Claus should wear side-whiskers
                        and a tall hat and carry a burglar-proof safe in the back of his sleigh.
                    The Christmas decoration should be the word "Utility,"
                        worked out in evergreen and in addition to a $5 deposit, every blessed
                        cherub should receive a jumper suit of underwear and a pair of mittens.
                
                
                
                    BEST OF THE FARLEYS
                    
                    BEST OF THE FARLEYS
                    John Farley has worked hard, taken the cheerful view of life, smoked a large
                        amount of tobacco, "got drunk" occasionally and saved
                        enough money to pay for a little house in Pitkin Street. He stands well with
                        the foreman and is a favourite at the corner bar, for he is a wit and a
                        commentator. He is prosperous, according to the division of wealth in Pitkin
                        Streetprosperous and proud. His pride is Rosie.
                    She was born at the Pitkin Street house, and in her childhood she ranged
                        through the alleys and lumber by-ways that led to the river. Mrs. Farley
                        allowed the children to run wild until they were old enough to be sent to
                        the big public school. Rosie used to wear a patched slip of dingy material.
                        The wisp of disordered hair was caught up with a black string. She had the
                        usual affinity for dirt. Her mother never kept her in hand. Her father joked
                        with her and told her Irish goblin stories and was a good playmate, but he
                        never took himself seriously as a parent. She never had any home
                        "training." Certainly she was never
                        "reared."
                    
                    So why did she pick up into a neat and careful Miss who read books that were
                        new to Pitkin Street? After she finished at the grammar school she was a
                        salesgirl, and then she took up short-hand. She bought her own clothing and
                        had a bank-book.
                    At twenty she was the only member of the family who had ready money when
                        Tommy, caught up for beating a man with a billiard-cue, had to pay a fine of
                        twenty-five dollars or go to the bridewell. Rosie went to the station and
                        paid the fine. Mrs. Farley wept before, during, and after the trial,
                        protesting that it was the shame of her life that her son should be
                        "in prison." John Farley was gloomily disgraced by the
                        affair and told Tommy that he would have to pay his sister every cent. He
                        has not paid it as yet.
                    Tommy had grown up in Pitkin Street, as Rosie had. The two attended the same
                        school and were allowed an equal start, such as it was. Tommy, at
                        twenty-seven, is a slouching ruffian who stands at the corner with other
                        members of the "Terry gang," drinks as often as he can,
                        and works as seldom as possible. Rosie, at twenty-four, is a delectable
                        creature, who knows what clothes to wear and how to carry herself. She earns
                        a salary of $15 a week as a stenographer, is prized by her employers,
                        pointed out  by all of Pitkin Street, and
                        especially respected and held in awe by John Farley and his wife. All the
                        wayward young girls of Pitkin Street who steal out of evenings to join the
                        rowdy young men are told to observe Rosie Farley, who never does such
                        things. Rosie sets the styles for the streetno flaunting white feathers and
                        gay ribbons, but the trimmest of cloth suits in winter and shirt-waist
                        effects in summer. The over-grown boys who went to school with her touch
                        their hats uneasily when she passes and comment in whispers. That is all.
                        They simply admire her at a distance.
                    To John Farley it is an unending surprise that he is the father of the
                        wonderful Rosie. She is the ruler of the household and has been ever since a
                        certain Saturday night in June.
                    John Farley seldom drank too much except on Saturday night, when it was his
                        habit to come home in an excited and confused state of mind and make long
                        speeches to Mrs. Farley, who would weep. The woman was emotional by nature.
                        She loved strange funerals and death-bed stories and family griefs.
                    When John Farley was in drink he would declaim of his wife's
                        unworthiness, of her improvidence, of her neglect of household duties. The
                        more she moaned and sobbed and lamented the fact of her birth  the more sweeping and eloquent was his
                        attack. Her demonstrative grief seemed to act as a stimulant to his
                        invective. These occasional Saturday night scenes had been enacted ever
                        since Rosie could remember. As a little girl she had lain in bed, trembling
                        at the sounds and feeling a secret shame that she had been born to such
                        parents. Later she had endured the squalls with saintly forbearance. Later
                        still, she wearied of them. She began to understand that her
                        father's Saturday night attack and her mother's responsive
                        weeping made up a kind of ceremonial which had no serious import and was
                        observed solely because it had attained the dignity of a custom.
                    Her father never quarrelled except after drinking. It seemed that when he
                        came to a certain period of intoxication he had the impulse to go home and
                        deliver the set oration to his wife. Her sufferings were terrible on
                        Saturday evening. On Sunday morning she would be placid and cheerful
                        again.
                    On the Saturday evening which marked the change of administration, young Mr.
                        Carroll, son of the contractor, had called to see Rosie. They were sitting
                        on the front stoop when John Farley came home through the front gate and
                        went around to the side-door of the house. He walked with his feet far apart
                        and was staring straight ahead with a filmy and unobservant  gaze. He was very erect, also, as a man
                        should be when he is quite sober.
                    Rosie was prepared for what began in the kitchen. John started in on his
                        familiar and highly coloured speech depicting the woes of the honest
                        working-man who is married to a lazy and wasteful slattern. The doors and
                        windows were open. This oration threatened to permeate the block.
                    "Please go home, Mr. Carroll," said Rosie, "I am
                        needed in the house."
                    Mrs. Farley was sitting beside the kitchen-table, with her apron rolled into
                        a handkerchief. She was rocking sidewise and wailing mechanically, and there
                        was a rivulet of tears on each cheek.
                    John Farley was pacing between the table and the stove, making broad and
                        slashing gestures to accompany his fluent vituperation.
                    "What if I do go and take a drink?" he demanded.
                        "What objection should you have, you poor, mis'able
                        creature? I have me rights and me liberties, which not you or anny one else
                        can deprive me of. Now mind you that! I might as well let me money go for
                        drink as have it thrown away by the likes of you. I'm an
                        industhrus, hard-workin' man six days in the week
                        an'"
                    "Father! Stop that!"
                    
                    John Farley stopped short, with his hand up, and looked in bleary surprise at
                        Rosie, who stood in the doorway, her lips closed tightly and her eyes
                        squinted with determination.
                    "Rosie, I've put up with that woman for years an'
                        y$apos;know that as well"
                    "Hush! I don't want to hear another word out of you. Let me
                        tell you something. Unless you and mother stop this nonsense, I'm
                        going to leave this house and never come back."
                    "Oh, Rosie, poor soul, if you on'y knew" faltered
                        Mrs. Farley.
                    "I know that you are a fool, that's what I know for one
                        thing, mother. Why do you pay any attention to him when he comes home in
                        this condition and begins this silly talk. I've heard it for years
                        and I'm thoroughly tired of it. Hereafter, father, you do all of
                        your talking at the saloon and then come home and go to bed."
                    John Farley smacked his lips and tried to put himself into an attitude of
                        authority.
                    "Rosie, you mustn't int'fere," he said,
                        and he made a short gesture as of brushing something aside.
                    "Father!"he jumped when she said it. "Right
                        through this door and to your room! And not another word out of you
                        to-night."
                    
                    I'll do it as favour to you, Rosie," he said, teetering
                        slightly as he turned to make for the door. "I'll do it
                        for you, but I want't unde'stood I"
                    "Very well, we will discuss that part of it in the
                        morning."
                    Then she turned to her mother, whose grief had settled down to a low,
                        bubbling tremolo with equi-distant gusty sighs that seemed to lift the good
                        woman from the chair.
                    "He's abused methis waytime after time, until I just think
                        sometimesI can't stand it any longer," said Mrs. Farley,
                        through the folds of her damp apron.
                    "Stop that sniffling!" commanded Rosie.
                        "Don't you know that you encourage him to carry on that
                        way? You ought to know it by this time. I think this house needs a
                        manager."
                    So from that evening Rosie became manager and there was a reform
                        administration. The Saturday-night outbreaks ceased. Rosie changed the
                        marketing-list and taught her father to eat new kinds of food. She bought
                        her mother's dresses and made Mrs. Farley presentable in spite of
                        herself. It was Rosie who pitched out the chromos and the jig-saw brackets
                        and the yellow-plush sofa and brought in rugs and water-colours. Rosie took
                        charge of her father's tin  box and
                        directed the payments to the building and loan association. It was Rosie who
                        had the house painted.
                    The climax of the revolution came when Rosie announced that Tommy would be
                        expected to pay board if he remained at home. He could get work at the
                        mantel factory, and Rosie told him that $3.50 a week would be a great help
                        in the financing of the household. Tommy was much aggrieved at the demand,
                        and his mother rather sympathised with him. She told Rosie not to be too
                        hard on a "slip of a boy." But the "slip of a
                        boy" was past twenty-five when Rosie gave him the stern alternative
                        of earning his living or starving to death. So Tommy is working
                        intermittently, much against his will.
                    On Saturday night, when John Farley gets the customary glass too much, he
                        does not go home to lacerate the humid sensibilities of Mrs. Farley. When he
                        feels his vocal strength demanding an outlet and he knows that he must
                        gesticulate in order to relieve himself, he gives the company in the
                        Bridgeport Buffet a serious speech on the subject of Rosie, most wondrous of
                        her sex.
                
                
                
                    MR. WIMBERLEY'S TROUSERS
                    
                    MR. WIMBERLEY'S TROUSERS
                    Mr. Wimberley wanted to turn up his trousers at the bottom, but he was
                        afraid. Afraid of what? Of ridicule, contumely, the unmoving finger of
                        scorn.
                    The common, conservative public, which has its clothes cut by
                        machine-pattern, and which moves as slowly as a glacier toward any change of
                        fashion, seems to have an unusually spiteful grudge against the young man
                        who reefs his trousers.
                    Is it because the sartorial fancy claims British origin? Is the protest
                        inspired by a too-rampant Americanism? Does the Irish vote influence public
                        sentiment? Does it?
                    Or do most of our hard-headed fellow-citizens resent the little whimsies and
                        caprices which are intended to prove that some of us are more jaunty than
                        others?
                    Every one will admit that on a dry day there is no first-class reason why a
                        man should be compelled to take a turn in his trousers. Be turns up his
                        trousers because he wants them up, and in so doing he signals his defiance
                        to the paragrapher and the private humourist. 
                        Could any small action suggest a higher degree of moral courage?
                    Why persecute the man? Even if the turning-up is a mere fad, an eccentricity
                        intended to help out the effect of carelessnessa studied attempt at
                        negligence, as it wereis it not true that many details of fashion which have
                        become hallowed by usage are just as superfluous when studied from the cold
                        stand-point of utility?
                    Of what especial value are the buttons on the back of a coat? What is the
                        sense of putting a flap on the side of a coat when there is no pocket to be
                        covered and protected by the flap? By what argument can it be shown that one
                        notch in the lapel of a coat is better than two notches or no notch at all?
                        Is it urged that buttons, flaps, and notches have a decorative value? Very
                        well, Mr. Wimberley believed that the reef had its value.
                    There is no absolute standard of taste in the matter of attire. We can admire
                        any shape of hat or any cut of waistcoat to which we may have become
                        accustomed, although twenty years later we will see these hats and
                        waistcoats in group photographs and laugh at their hideousness.
                    He who follows the correct mode is safe for the present at least. At any
                        rate, he should be.
                    
                    Along these lines Mr. Wimberley had reasoned to himself, with the result that
                        he felt justified in wearing his trousers turned up. He observed that a
                        majority of his acquaintances who had either wealth or a country-club
                        standing wore their trousers broadly folded upward from the somewhat English
                        shoes.
                    He could not tell why it was so but he had noticed that when a man in summer
                        regalia, with soft shirt, golf hat, pig-skin belt, and roomy flannelswhen a
                        man thus clad gave the careless turn to the bottom of each
                        trouser's leg, he was immediately transformed from the conventional
                        to the rakishly unconventional and seemed to wear a new mark of
                        exclusiveness. One stroke is always needed to change the mechanic's
                        product into a work of art, or the dressed man into the dressy.
                    As we have said, Mr. Wimberley had come to a gropeful understanding of the
                        tremendous significance of the turned-up trouser, but he was afraid.
                    He knew of twenty acquaintances who would ask, "Hello, is it raining
                        in London?" This has been counted a good joke since 1880. Admitting
                        that the question betrays the mental bankruptcy of the person who asks it,
                        there is no gainsaying the fact that it is a disconcerting question and one
                        not easily answered.
                    In Mr. Wimberley's room there was a mirror swung  on top of a dresser. By facing this mirror
                        toward the floor, Mr. Wimberley could stand about twelve feet from the
                        dresser and study his own leg effects.
                    He would move into the focus and look at the trousers lying limp on the
                        shoes. Picturevery bad. No individuality, no differentiation.
                    Then he would turn them up. Result: A pleasing transformation. Whole attire
                        much smarter and more definitely setshoe more shapelylegs not so spidery an
                        indefinable suggestion of the athletic. He would walk around the room,
                        approaching the mirror suddenly from different angles in order to get quick
                        impressions and see himself as others would see him when he moved along the
                        boulevard with heavy, energetic strides, the body tilted slightly
                        forward.
                    After coming upon himself several times and being most pleasantly surprised
                        in each instance, he would start to leave the room.
                    With his hand on the knob of the door he would hesitate for a moment or two,
                        standing still, faint, nerveless, and undetermined. Then he would stoop over
                        and unreef his trousers and go out into the bright street, with something of
                        a loathing for himself.
                    What a weakling he was! Why could he not stalk forth and wear the cool
                        indifference which he had admired in others? Were not the people who sat on
                        the  terraced stairways of the boarding-houses
                        far beneath his contempt?
                    Could he afford to restrain his raiment or cramp his manners in order to earn
                        the silent approbation of a street full of nobodies, who wore speckled
                        cravats, needle-point shoes, barbarous white hats which were black on the
                        under side (like toad-stools), and who were supposed to use bay rum in
                        quantities?
                    No, by George!
                    One day Mr. Wimberley walked into the street with his trousers turned up. It
                        was a satisfactory June day, dry and clear, with no clouds overhead save
                        those that tumbled from the stacks and chimneys.
                    Mr. Wimberley passed two young fellows standing at the drug-store corner.
                        They were the kind that wear soft hats pulled down to their eyebrows and use
                        both belt and suspenders.
                    One of them gave a chirping sound, in imitation of a bird, and said,
                        "Meet me at the links, Harold."
                    Mr. Wimberley flushed, but he was somewhat gratified, withal. So he did resemble a golf-player, did he?
                    Two girls sat on a front stoop at one of the wedged-in boarding-houses. They
                        were sharp-eyed, thin-nosed, canary-looking girls, and they were chewing
                        gum.
                    
                    "Say, Pearl, I guess we're goin' to have
                        rain," said one of them.
                    "Yes, it looks like it," said the other, and the two
                        cackled at their own audacity.
                    "A very low order of young woman," thought Mr. Wimberley,
                        gazing straight ahead.
                    He wondered what their kind of a man would be. Possibly a pink-shirted
                        scoundrel with ringletsone who used musk and had gold fillings. Heavens!
                    "Hello, Wimberley, is it raining in London?"
                    Aha! He had been expecting it. He turned and saw Carrington, a most
                        objectionable person whose only excuse for being lay in the diminished glory
                        of having ridden a certain number of "centuries" on a
                        bicycle.
                    "Carrington, do you know why I wear my trousers turned up at the
                        bottom?" asked Mr. Wimberley, for he had prepared a little speech
                        which was to put the quietus on impertinent comics.
                    "No, I must say I don't," replied the century
                        rider.
                    "I wear them that way because you don't. I want to be as
                        much unlike you as possible."
                    And he hurried on, while the dart was still quivering.
                    
                    It may not be necessary to tell that when Mr. Wimberley arrived at his place
                        of employment his fellow-slaves made remarks intended to be directly or
                        indirectly critical.
                    One man of abnormal originality asked, "How's the
                        Prince?" and another, with a confessed genius for doing clever
                        things, whistled "Rule Britannia."
                    But Mr. Wimberley had nerved himself in anticipation of these gibes. He was
                        in good form and he could afford to smile in pitying contempt.
                    When he went out for lunch his trousers were still turned up. It seemed that
                        he had won the day. Napoleon had a glimpse of victory at Waterloo. That was
                        before Blucher came up.
                    While on his way to the lunch-place he almost bumped into his Uncle Samuel,
                        who owns a tile-yard at Messowee.
                    "Why, Georgie, is it you?" asked Uncle Sam, holding his
                        right hand in a grip and squeezing his arm, so as to be doubly cordial.
                        "You're lookin' first-rate. Gittin' to
                        be quite a dude, too."
                    His good-natured scrutiny passed downward. He saw the turned-up trousers and
                        regarded them with friendly interest.
                    "Pants too long?" he inquired, softly.
                    "YesIaher"
                    
                    "Mine's usually that way. I have the man chop 'em
                        off."
                    "Maybe these won't be too long," said Mr.
                        Wimberley, with a frightened smile.
                    He stooped over and turned them down. At that moment he gave up for all time
                        his hope of being a swell and a hero.
                
                
                
                    THE FORMER KATHRYN
                    
                    THE FORMER KATHRYN
                    "Whothe girl that used to be at this counter?" she
                        repeated, with a puckery smile and a glance of suspicion. "Did you
                        know her? Huh? Ohyou jast saw her here once or twice. I
                        thought mebbe from the way you spoke you was a friend of hers. I might have
                        known you wasn't, thoughby the looks. She had the
                        squiggiest lot of gentlemen friends I ever want to see. Yes, I mean the same
                        one that you dothe red-headed one. She had two or three names. We called her
                        'Sorrel-top' here. How did you happen to remember her? By
                        the hair, I s'pose. My, that hair! It was bad
                        enough to begin with, and then the way she kept it done up! I think she must
                        have put glue or something else on it to make it stand the way it did. She
                        was a peculiar girla very peculiar girl. Some people
                        around here said she was a littlewell, not exactly cracked, but I guess she had a case of the Willies, all right. She had
                        a very strange nature. Yes, indeed. And a nerve! Gracious
                        me! The way she'd get acquainted with gentlemen-customers was a
                        caution. I used to tell her that I'd give a good deal  for her nerve. Did she ever tell you her
                        name? It's a wonder. I guess you never encouraged her much or
                        she'd 'a' told you, all right. She used to tell
                        everybody. Her name was Katie Gailey. I'll bet you can't
                        guess what she's doin' now. Learnin' to be a
                        manicure. Wouldn't that jolt you, though? If you'd see her
                        on the street now, I don't s'pose you'd know her.
                        She wears one of these long coats an' eye-glasses. She's a
                        sight! And the way she throws it on. It's funny to me. It is funny to me, knowin' the family, as I do. We
                        went to the Jefferson school together. She was an awful dumb scholar, too.
                        Her father drove a bread-wagon an' they say he drank. Sakes alive,
                        if you could 'a' heard her talk about her pa-pah after she
                        come down here to work, you'd 'a' thought he was
                        the president o' something. It's funny, ain't it,
                        how people change sometimes when they get away from home. Humph! When I knew
                        her she was Katie, but when she got to workin' over here, she
                        called herself Kathryn, yn, mind you! I hear she wanted to be an actress.
                        She'd make a swell actress, I don't think. She was very, unpopular here, on account of her deceitful nature.
                        She wouldn't have lasted as long as she did if it hadn't
                        been for Mr. Root, the floor-walker. I think he was kind o' stuck
                        on her, myself. It was two of a kind, becuz he was just as soft as mush.  Katie used to roll her eyes up and smile at
                        him when he walked past, and he'd grin back at her, and honest,
                        Miss Ducey an' me used to stuff our handkerchiefs in our mouths to
                        keep from squawkin' right out. You bet any time I have to make
                        funny eyes at a bald-headed floor-walker to hold my jobwell! You ought to seen her after Mr. McKay was put into this
                        aisle. She couldn't roll her eyes at him! Mr. McKay is very strict. The first day he come right down this aisle here
                        an' she was leanin' back, chewin' her pencil
                        an' train' to flag one o' them boys over in the
                        glove department, an' Mr. McKay snapped his fingers an'
                        said, 'Miss Gailey, attend to the customers, please,' just
                        like that. I thought Miss Ducey was goin' to have a fit. Katie was
                        so mad all afternoon, you could just see the sparks comin' out
                        o' that red hair. I guess that boy's got your change
                        an' gone fishin' with it. You'd better take off
                        your muffler or you'll ketch cold when you go out. That's
                        a lovely muffler.
                    "You know me and Katie haven't spoke since she left here.
                        She claims I had something to do with gettin' her fired. You have
                        no idea the spiteful temper of that girl. I s'pose that's
                        on account of her red hair. I've heard that red-haired people all
                        have very high tempers. My, if she didn't have a
                        grouch the last day she was here! She just the same as insulted  a number of customers that dayyes, indeed.
                        That was the day she accused me of havin' her fired. I said to her,
                        'Katie Gailey, you've got nobody but yourself to
                        blameblabbin' about everybody that ever worked with you.'
                        She used some awful language to me. She used language to me that nobody
                        should use, I can tell you that. I said to her, 'Sticks
                        an' stones may break my bones, but words will
                        never hurt me'! I thought Miss Ducey would go right under the
                        counter.
                    "Well, sakes alive, boy, you did get back at last,
                        did you? Never mind about that. We can get along without any lip from you.
                        Give the gentleman his change. He come purty near gettin'
                        grey-headed while he was waitin' for you. Is that
                        so? Well, you'll be lookin' for another job if you get new
                        with me. I've spoke to Mr. McKay about you once already. Yes, sir,
                        they'll be delivered this afternoon or tomorrow morning. Say, if
                        you see Katie again, you ask her if she remembers borrowin' fifty
                        cents from Miss Ducey. You just ask her that and see what she says.
                        Good-bye! Don't forget the aisle."
                
                
                
                    CUPID IN BUTTONS
                    
                    CUPID IN BUTTONS
                    "Bibbs" was an elevator-boy in the family hotel. Do you
                        know the family hotelwhere the women have no employment except to
                        investigate the new-comers, and the head clerk is an encyclopedia of
                        scandal, and they move the chairs out of the dining-room every two weeks and
                        have a "grand hop"?
                    In such a hotel "Bibbs" worked the lever in an
                        elevator-cage of twisted grill-work. Two of the women who rode with him were
                        Mrs. Williams and Mrs. Cole. These estimable ladies were childless and
                        burdened with leisure. To relieve the tedium of hotel life they lounged on
                        the first floor, observing and comparing notes and classifying such
                        information as comes welcome to the feminine curiosity. They knew how to
                        worm secrets out of the amiable blonde who was at the day desk. They knew
                        which of the men in the hotel said harsh and cruel things to their wives.
                        They knew the past of the slender woman who wanted to be known as a widow.
                        although really a divorc$eAe. They knew which of the young men drank and
                        came in late.  They could retail the
                        grammatical errors and the social "breaks" of the family
                        that lately had come in from the country town.
                    These two, putting this and that together, viewing one circumstance in the
                        light of another and basing opinions upon their own knowledge of how
                        matrimonial intentions are fostered, concluded that Fannie Procter would
                        become the wife of "Willie" Branford.
                    Having settled comfortably into this belief they were amazed to learn that
                        Fannie had accepted "Al" Maynard, a broad-shouldered,
                        deep-chested young man, whose characteristics had been an apparent
                        indifference to the charms of young women, a passion for fifteen-ball pool,
                        and a bashful aversion to whist and round dances.
                    Albert Maynard, indeed! Had he ever hovered around Fannie at any of the
                        Saturday-night dances? Had he sent flowers to her day after day, and smiled
                        at her every time he came into breakfast? Had he come out in evening dress
                        and tagged after her when she went into the parlour? Had Fannie ever
                        addressed him familiarly and sent him on errands? Had they organised
                        theatre-parties and played duets on the piano?
                    No!
                    "Al" Maynard had not figured as a possible candidate  until the engagement was announced. Mrs. Cole
                        remembered that Fannie had once spoken of Mr. Maynard as a "big
                        thing." Mrs. Williams recalled the fact that she had seen them
                        talking together a few times, but there was nothing
                        "spooney" happening, or she would have noticed it, because
                        she was there to notice such things.
                    At the first opportunity they cornered Fannie in the parlour.
                    "Is it true?" asked Mrs. Williams, as she took hold of the
                        hand and felt to see if the ring was there.
                    "Of course it's true."
                    "But we always thought it would be Willie."
                    "I'm afraid Willie did, too, butpshaw!"
                    Mrs. Williams and Mrs. Cole spent two hours in analysing that significant
                        "pshaw."
                    And the remarkable part of it is that "Bibbs" alone had
                        comprehended the situation from the very start. "Bibbs"
                        was of the size of twelve years. He was suspected to be about sixteen. He
                        had the self-assertion of a field-marshal of seventy-five. The English
                        uniform to which they had condemned him could not hide his largely American
                        qualities. He was easily familiar with all who rode in his elevator, and his
                        impudence was of the persuasive and unconscious kind which pleased rather
                        than offended. "Bibbs" was a privileged  character. He received more Christmas
                        presents than any one else in the house. If the management had removed him,
                        there would have been a protest from the "guests."
                    "Bibbs" was sitting outside the elevator-cage, waiting for
                        a few stragglers and night-hawks, when he told why the news had not
                        surprised him.
                    "They got a bright lot o' people around this hotel, I
                        don't think," he said. "Everybody had Mr.
                        Branford picked. Well, I knew six weeks ago that he wasn't in it.
                        He had about as much chance as I had. Say, the very first they that Miss
                        Procter come here with her father, I took Mr. Maynard up the next trip, and
                        he says to me, 'Who's the new girl'? I told him
                        what her name was and about her bein' up here to study music. He
                        says, 'She's all right, ain't she'? I
                        told him I didn't have any fault to find. As long as I've
                        been here that's the first time I ever heard him say anything about
                        a girl in the house and it struck me as kind o' funny at the
                        time.
                    "I s'pose it was about a week after that that both of
                        'em got in the elevator. Mr. Maynard backed away to let her get to
                        first, and he was purty busy sizin' her up. When we went up he kept
                        an eye on her. I let him off at the second, and he tripped in
                        getting' out, and that made her laugh. I guess he was a little
                        rattled.  I says to her,
                        'That's Mr. Maynard.' She says,
                        'Who's Mr. Maynard?' 'Oh,' I
                        says, 'he ain't a bad fellow,' and then just for
                        a kid I told her that she was the only girl we'd ever had in the
                        house that he'd asked anything about. She kept the car
                        waitin' there at the third an' made me tell what
                        he'd asked. I says, 'Oh, he just asked what your name was
                        an' said you was all right.' 'Well, the
                        idea!' she says. You know how they can say it. I ain't
                        been runnin' an elevator two years for nothin'. If you
                        want to stand in with the women you just tell 'em all the nice
                        things you hear people say about 'em It makes 'em mad, but
                        it means a Christmas present, just the same.
                    "You know the first dance we had after Miss Procter showed up? Gee,
                        she had a swell make-up that night! Mr. Branford was dead stuck on her from
                        the start. I could see that easy enough. He marched her all over the first
                        floor here to show her off, an' he nearly talked an arm off of her.
                        I didn't know where Mr. Maynard was. I s'pose he was down
                        playin' pool. When I took her up that night she asked me if Mr.
                        Maynard ever went to the Saturday-night dances. I told her that he
                        didn't seem to be much on the girl game, mebbe because he was a
                        little bashful. Next day I tackled Mr. Maynard. I says,
                        'They're wonderin' why you don't show up
                        at the dances.' 'Who's  wonderin'?' he says. 'Oh,'
                        I says, 'there's a certain nice little party was
                        askin' me last night why you didn't come to the
                        hop.' He wanted to know who it was, an' I told him. He
                        grinned and said 'Rats,' but I just waited to see.
                    "Sure enough, the next dance he come out in his dress suit
                        an' he certainly looked good, but the chump loafed around the
                        office instead of goin' in where they was danein'. After a
                        while she come out with Mr. Branford an' saw Mr. Maynard. I guess
                        she must have asked Willie for an introduction, for he took her over
                        an' give her a knock-down to Mr. Maynard. He got as red as a beet.
                        I think she had to do most of the talkin'. I s'pose he
                        didn't ask her to dance, twin' such a dummy, for somebody
                        else come up an' got her away from him, an' he went down
                        to the billiard-room. But that was the start of it.
                    "Around the hotel here, everybody said it was Willie in a walk. Do
                        you know why I never thought he had a show? I'll tell you. When
                        he'd come to put her it the elevator and send her up, he'd
                        say 'Good-bye,' soft. like that, you know, and
                        she'd say 'Good-bye,' just as if she hated to
                        tear herself away, but always after she got past the first floor
                        she'd begin to laugh. That didn't look right, did it? I
                        could see that she was workin' Willie. He was all right to get
                        flowers from  an' kill time with,
                        but, do you know it, she was out for the big titan from the first minute she
                        ever saw him. And say, he was the slowest to get nest of anybody I ever saw.
                        If she hadn't gone out after him I don't believe
                        he'd made a move. He never seemed to know how strong he was with
                        that girl.
                    "Two weeks ago here I had to put him right. I was takin'
                        him up one evening and I said, 'Mr. Branford's
                        rushin' Miss Procter party hard these days.'
                        'Yes,' he say, 'I s'pose
                        they're engaged.' 'Engaged
                        nothin'!' I' I says. 'She has to put up
                        with him becuz the other man around here don't know enough to give
                        her a good time.' Purty raw, wusn't it? I says,
                        'I'm thinkin' of savin' enough this
                        month to buy a few flowers for her myself, if nobody also is goin'
                        to jump in.' I just give him that for a kind of a tip, without
                        lettin' on that I meant him. He tumbled all right. Next evening she
                        tackled me, up on her floor, and told me to tell Mr. Maynard that she wanted
                        to see him. I had one of the bell-hops bring him up from the billiard-roots
                        and I delivered him to her on the third. She had a big bunch of flowers that
                        somebody had sent to her and she wanted him to come up and have one put in
                        his button-hole. That wits the first time he'd ever sent any
                        flowers an' I don't think he'd
                        'a' done it then if I hadn't give him the hunch.
                        He was the slowest I  ever saw, an'
                        I've watched a good many of 'em around here.
                    "Well, he was good an' jollied that night when I brought
                        him down with that flower hangin' on his coat. The next evening
                        after that, she come down an' Willie got hold of her an'
                        was walkin' her around here when Mr. Maynard wane up. Sore? You
                        could see it worried him to have her pay in' any attention to
                        Willie, but it was his own fault. He ought to have been on the lookout
                        an' got her first. But he done something that paralysed me. He
                        walked over to the sofa an' started in to chin that thin Morrison
                        girl that wears the glasses. I says, 'Aha, we've got the
                        old boy a little jealous at last.' He was talkin' to Miss
                        Morrison, but all the time he was keepin' tab on Miss Procter.
                        An' Miss Procter was very busy with little Willie, but she was
                        watchin' that sofa every minute. An' me back here,
                        takin' it all in. Willie an' the Morrison girl
                        didn't cut any figure at all. They thought they did, but they
                        didn't.
                    "Now the rest of this is on the q. t. and Mr. Maynard
                        wouldn't do a thing to me if he thought I'd told anybody.
                        I was takin' him up to his room that night an' I says,
                        'There's a girl in this hotel I feel sorry for.'
                        'Who's that?' he says.
                        'W'y,' I says. 'it's Miss
                        Procter. There don't seem to be anybody around here that's
                        got  the sand to take her away from Mr.
                        Branford.' 'What do you know about it?' he says,
                        lookin' at me kind o' funny. 'I don't
                        know much,' I says, 'but I know which man she likes the
                        best around here.' He didn't say anything. We come to his
                        floor an' I opened the door, but he didn't get out right
                        away. 'Are you sure?' he says. I says,
                        'It's a cinch.' He says, 'I want to
                        leave a 7.30 call' an' then he slipped me a half.
                    "Well, say! Next night he was faked up just about right,
                        an' he sent up his card before she had time to come down. I
                        don't know what he took to give him his nerve. I didn't
                        think he'd come around to it for a month, but you can't
                        always tell about these quiet fellows. He's landed her. He has, for
                        a fact. It's all over the hotel. An' they say
                        Willie's goin' to give up his room. Willie's all
                        right, but he won't do. Say, don't you think I'm
                        entitled to a bid to the wedding? Huh?"
                
                
                
                    THE BUELL CHERRY
                    
                    THE BUELL CHERRY
                    "This is the place," said Mr. Buell, as he stopped in front
                        of a new cottage with a wrinkled lawn in front of it.
                    The breezes came freely from across the prairies. Over toward the trolley
                        track the white and blue flowers of spring peeped timidly from the new
                        grass. Mrs. Buell gave every symptom of delight. She knew that she would
                        fall in love with the place. The children would have a play-ground at last.
                        Mr. Buell predicted that the whole family would become brown and heavy from
                        living in the suburbs.
                    
                        
                            "Domestic happiness, thou only bliss
                        
                        
                            Of paradise that has survived the fall."
                        
                    
                    It was spring-time when the Buells moved to Arcadian Heights, a mountainous
                        suburb, rising at points to a height of fifteen feet above the level of the
                        lake.
                    Arcadian Heights was then the skeleton framework of a town. It had a
                        railway-station, a grass-plot with the name of the suburb tastefully set in
                        whitewashed  rocks, and the streets were
                        already marked out and fringed with spidery shade-trees.
                    Cement sidewalks parted the bushy weeds. Rusted hydrants lifted themselves
                        above the dandelions in evidence of the fact that the town had a
                        water-supply, even if it had no one to use the water.
                    A dozen new houses were sprinkled on the checker-board plain to the west of
                        the station. It was to one of these houses that the Buells came with two
                        cavernous waggons full of furniture. They had given up the close communion
                        of life in a flat building and preferred an association with Nature.
                    
                        
                            "An elegant sufficiency, content,
                        
                        
                            Retirement, rural quiet, friendships, books,
                        
                        
                            Ease and alternate labour, useful life,
                        
                        
                            Progressive virtue and approving heaven!"
                        
                    
                    The Buell place was not large, as compared with the country-seats of the
                        300-page novel, but it was all theirs.
                    Every spear of grass assumed a pleasant relation toward the new-comers.
                    Mr. and Mrs. Buell had something like a parental interest in the slender
                        shade-trees at the front, the bushes behind the house, and the two
                        cherry-trees which stood near the walk spurring out from the veranda.
                    
                    Within a few days after the Buells first moved in, one of these trees
                        unfolded a few milky blossoms.
                    
                        "For, lo! the winter is past, the rain is over and
                            gone; the flowers appear on the earth; the time of the singing of birds
                            is come, and the voice of the turtle is heard in the
                            land."
                    
                    The Buells did not hear the dove, but they were entertained nightly by the
                        frogs, and sitting on the front veranda at dusk all four would sniff hard in
                        an effort to corroborate Mrs. Buell's firm belief that she could
                        detect the odour of cherry-blossoms.
                    
                        
                            "Now came still evening on, and twilight grey
                        
                        
                            Had in her sober livery all things clad;
                        
                        
                            Silence accompany'd; for beast and bird,
                        
                        
                            They to their grassy couch, these to their nests,
                        
                        
                            Were slunk."
                        
                    
                    Mrs. Buell plucked a few of the blossoms and copied them imperfectly in
                        water-colours. The other tree produced nothing but waxen leaves. Mr. Buell
                        examined it studiously and conferred with a neighbour who had made a study
                        of small fruits, and it was decided that it would produce, in time, the
                        ox-heart cherry, which is a pleasant edible.
                    The first tree, blossoming so promptly, was a common  mon specimen of the prunus cerasus, the
                        fruit being known as the "cooking cherry."
                    
                        
                            "Hope springs eternal in the human breast;
                        
                        
                            Man never is, but always to be blest."
                        
                    
                    During the long winter the trees were banked about with earth and kept in
                        swaddling clothes, and early in the second spring they fulfilled the promise
                        of the season and put out an abundance of green leaves. A mother guiding the
                        steps of her first-born could not have been more solicitous than were the
                        Buells as they searched the long branches and found, here and there, the
                        beginning of a white blossom.
                    "The ox-heart tree is going to blossom," said Mrs. Buell to
                        the children one afternoon.
                    "The ox-heart tree is going to blossom!" shouted the
                        children to Mr. Buell as he walked over from the station that afternoon.
                    "By George, the ox-heart tree is going to
                        blossom," said Mr. Buell, as he pulled down the branches and
                        examined them with a surgeonly tenderness.
                    
                        
                            "It is the month of June,
                        
                        
                            The mouth of leaves and roses,
                        
                        
                            When pleasant sights salute the eyes
                        
                        
                            And pleasant scents the noses."
                        
                    
                    
                    Yet the month of June held one cruel disappointment for the Buell family.
                    The ox-heart tree which had blossomed so sturdily, showed not a cherry. The
                        other tree bore thirteen. For a long time the count was twelve, but one day
                        little Grace, who had sharper eyes than the others, discovered one cherry on
                        a high branch, partly hidden by the leaves, and thirteen was thereafter
                        taken as the official count.
                    The cherries ripened one at a time and were devoured. An equitable division
                        was made, although thirteen cherries cannot be divided exactly by four.
                    It will be understood that in the spring of the third year there was a lack
                        of confidence in the ox-heart tree. It had grown taller and extended its
                        branches and the blossoms hung rich and heavy, but the Buells did not permit
                        themselves to be lifted by vain hopes. They were waiting for it to perform
                        actual service.
                    The common tree, producing the cooking cherries, blossomed more bounteously
                        than ever before, and, it may be added, bore nearly four quarts of cherries,
                        which were put into pies.
                    But what of the other?
                    The white petals fell and there was a period of uncertainty. One day Mr.
                        Buell (credit where credit is due!) discovered on the eastward branch which
                        extended  toward the walk, one small, hard
                        cherry. It seemed normal and without defect.
                    After three years of care and nursing the ox-heart tree was about to yield
                        the first evidence of gratitude.
                    From one stand-point the Buell cherry was a small and insignificant part of
                        the vegetable growth of North America. From the other stand-point it was the
                        symbol of all the beauty in Nature's excellent laws. It was the
                        essential poetry in the quatrain of seasons.
                    
                        
                            "Warmed by the sun
                        
                        
                            And wet by the dew,
                        
                        
                            It grew, it grew
                        
                        
                            Listen to my tale of woe."
                        
                    
                    All values are comparative.
                    The Buells had been fruit-growers for three years, and at last they had
                        produced one edible cherry.
                    According to market quotations the value of this cherry was the decimal part
                        of one cent. The Buells justly regarded it as a priceless treasure. The
                        children stood guard over it, to keep the robins away, and there was never a
                        day that the family did not gather at the tree and remark the growing
                        blush.
                    What was to be done with the cherry? It was too valuable and epoch-marking to
                        be gulped down in the ordinary off-hand manner. Rabelais spoke of a man  who would take three bites at a cherry, but
                        Mr. Buell could not see a fair plan of division among four.
                    Like a gallant man and a good husband, he decreed that Mrs. Buell should eat
                        the cherry.
                    The ceremony of the eating was to be as follows: Mrs. Buell's sister
                        and the sister's husband were to come out from town for Sunday
                        dinner. At the serving of dessert the girl was to bring in the cherry on the
                        genuine Delft plate which Mrs. Buell's brother had brought from
                        Holland. Mr. Buell would make a few remarks, touching on the sweetness of
                        life in the suburbs and the felicities of horticulture. Mrs. Buell would
                        then bite the cherry to the accompaniment of applause.
                    It was eventide. Mr. and Mrs. Buell sat on the cool veranda, arranging for
                        the celebration. Suddenly they were interrupted.
                    "Mr. Buell, that was a mighty fine cherry."
                    There stood the man who delivered the papers. He was smacking his lips.
                    Mr. Buell looked to where the branch of the tree was outlined against the
                        darkening, turquoise sky. The cherry was gone! A low moan escaped him.
                    He turned to where his wife sat. She was mute and staring. Then she saw his
                        white face and burst into convulsive sobbing.
                    
                    
                        
                            "This, this is miserythe last, the worst
                        
                        
                            That man can feel."
                        
                    
                    "Walk down to the gate with me, Jefferson, and I'll pay
                        you," said Mr. Buell, taking him by the arm.
                    "Why, what's the matter with Mrs. Buell?" asked
                        Jefferson, looking back at her.
                    "She has bad news. One of her cousins is dead out in
                        Kansas."
                
                
                
                    AN INCIDENT IN THE "PANSY"
                    
                    AN INCIDENT IN THE "PANSY"
                    The "Pansy" saloon is directly across the street from the
                        entrance to Sembrich's Hall, where the Ludolfia Pleasure Club gave
                        its masquerade ball. "Matty" Swinton, Jimmy Flynn, and
                        "Fatty" Eldridge were sitting in the
                        "Pansy" playing seven-up around a smeary table as the
                        maskers arrived.
                    A masquerade ball at Sembrich's Hall is worth going to see. It puts
                        a few hours of actual splendour into the lives of toilsome young men and
                        young women. The laundry-girl reigns for one night as Marie Antoinette or
                        else as the fated Queen of Scots. The girls employed at the Southwest
                        Division Louvre dry-goods store forget their gingham aprons, their convict
                        dress, and the wearing click of the cash trolley, for they are transformed
                        into flower-girls, ladies of the court, se$nToritas, Japanese geishas and
                        what not that is bespangled and bewitching.
                    There is a little shop just around the corner from Sembrich's Hall
                        at which masquerade costumes of the most astounding brilliancy may be had
                        for a small consideration.
                    
                    The young men seem to prefer comic parts. They come to the hall in the
                        fantastic clothes of harlequins, clowns, burlesque German and Irish
                        emigrants, or else as gaudy negro minstrels. When they put on these fancy
                        costumes they seem to put on the carnival spirit, too, for the gayety at a
                        Sembrich Hall masquerade is simply boisterous. These young men, ordinarily
                        shy and backward in the presence of young women, cavort and dance, beat one
                        another with slap-sticks, indulge in crazy pantomime, and pay exaggerated
                        devotion to the masked beauties.
                    It must be confessed, also, that the girls enter into the romp with no
                        reserve of maidenly dignity. For John Swensen, the grocer's clerk,
                        to put his arm around Hilda Jensen, the little bonnet-trimmer, would be a
                        subject for scandal, but for the gallant bull-fighter to caress the senorita
                        is mere accuracy of romance and no one is shocked.
                    Be assured, too, that John Swensen and all the meek and timorous young men
                        have now become the most audacious cavaliers. The young men of to-day in
                        their sombre store-clothes still have the fine manners and chivalry of the
                        Middle Ages in their hearts, for when the opportunity comes, as at
                        Sembrich's Hall, they put on the doublet and hose, velvet jackets,
                        long tan boots, plumed hats, gauntlets, ruffled waists, chain  armour, jewelled belts and hilts, Spanish
                        cloaks, military helmets, Elizabethan ruffs, and all the other finery to be
                        rented at the little shop around the corner.
                    Certainly a masquerade ball at Sembrich's Hall is worth going to
                        see. One will be pleasantly amazed to find such a magnificent pageant so
                        near the "Pansy" saloon, which fronts on a muddy street
                        and stands in a row of hideously plain and commonplace wooden streets.
                        Sembrich's building, the neighbourhood pride, is a large box made
                        of bricks.
                    "Matty" Swinton, Jimmy Flynn, "Butch"
                        Hanton, and "Fatty" Eldridge turned from their cards
                        occasionally to look at another noisy group of maskers passing up the
                        lighted stairway across the street.
                    "They're goin' to have a great push over there
                        to-night," said "Fatty."
                    "Yeah," said "Butch" Hanton, studying his
                        cards. "I'm goin' over presently, and if it
                        don't suit me I think I'll stop it."
                    "You'd better keep away," remarked
                        "Matty" Swinton. "I see you try to stop
                        somethin' once before."
                    "Yes, you must like to ride in them waggons," put in the
                        bartender, whose name was Joe.
                    Every one except "Butch" had to laugh. The
                        bartender's reference to the "waggon" recalled
                        the fact  that "Butch" had
                        been taken to the station one night for attempting to force his way into a
                        wedding-reception.
                    "I had my peaches that night," said
                        "Butch." "They'll never land me that may
                        again."
                    "Go on and play," growled Jimmy Flynn.
                    The four card-players in the "Pansy" were not the kind of
                        young men to put on fancy costumes and go to masquerade parties. They were
                        too sophisticated and tried-out to care for such childish diversions, and
                        they were glad of it.
                    They felt a superiority over the young fellows who acted as escorts to the
                        laundry-girls and those who worked at the Louvre. They would stand in front
                        of the "Pansy" and watch the couples pass by and would
                        feel a sort of malicious pity for them.
                    The door opened and "Butch" Hanton cursed fervently as he
                        saw two clowns enter. They wore baggy suits of spotted design and little
                        peaked white hats. Their faces were powdered and streaked. One was a large
                        man and he was especially ridiculous in such a costume.
                    "Hello, Choe," he shouted, and there was a rattling German
                        guttural in his voice. "Let us haf two peers."
                    "Good crowd over there to-night?" asked the bartender.
                    
                    "Fineef'rybody hafing a goot time."
                    The four card-players had dropped their cards and were gazing at the two
                        strange visitors. Evidently their contempt was too deep for expression.
                    The two clowns drank their beer. The larger one benevolently laid his hand on
                        the shoulder of the other and they began to sing. To the unaccustomed ear it
                        sounded thus, and they did it with tremendous vigour:
                    
                        
                            "Hi-lee! Hi-lo!
                        
                        
                            Hi-lee! Hi-lo!
                        
                        
                            By untz gates immer,
                        
                        
                            Gay-linger, Gay-schlimmer,
                        
                        
                            Hi-lee! Hi-lo!
                        
                        
                            Hi-lee! Hi-lo!
                        
                        
                            By untz gates immer ve-zo!"
                        
                    
                    As they concluded the last line "Butch" Hanton threw a
                        piece of chalk (used for marking scores) and hit the big clown on the ear.
                        The big fellow turned to the four at the table and bowed. "Goot
                        shot, poys," he said. "Come and haf a drink."
                    The four exchanged sullen glances and did not move.
                    "You fellows ain't stopped, have you?" asked Joe.
                        "Come up and have somethin' on Chris. Chris, these boys
                        are all friends of mine. Shake hands with 'em."
                    
                    Chris extended his hand toward Jimmy Flynn, who responded unwillingly.
                    "Say! Here!" Jimmy exclaimed, as he felt something close on
                        his hand until the bones ground together.
                    Chris released him and seized "Butch" by the hand.
                    "For God's sake!" gasped
                        "Butch," crouching half-way to the floor. With a backward
                        leap he released his hand and rubbed it, while he chewed his lip with
                        pain.
                    Chris started toward "Matty," who said, "Nix!
                        Nix!" as if in anger, and shifted toward the head of the bar.
                    "Say, you big sausage, what are you tryin' to do?"
                        demanded "Butch," glaring at the clown.
                    Chris smiled horribly through the chalk and said: "Ho! Sho! It is
                        all in fun. You shouldt not get mat"
                    "Don't get sore about a little thing like that,"
                        said Joe, who was setting the drinks along the bar.
                    "I don't like them funny plays," said
                        "Butch," working his fingers.
                    "Go on, Chris, and show them how well you can lift," said
                        Joe, after the drinks had been disposed of.
                    "No, you don't," objected
                        "Butch," and he backed away.
                    
                    "It iss all right," urged Chris, following him up.
                        "It will not hurt."
                    He reached forward suddenly and caught "Butch" by the
                        shoulder.
                    "Stant still," he said.
                    "Nawnaw. Don't get funny."
                    "Go on," put in the bartender, "Chris
                        won't hurt you."
                    "Butch" looked sheepishly at the others, and then,
                        following directions, he stiffened himself and allowed Chris to take hold of
                        him by the ankles and lift him into the air, very slowly, until his feet
                        were on a level with the card-table.
                    "Ahhhhhh!" said Joe, admiringly.
                    Chris lowered his man a few inches, and then with a sudden upward movement,
                        he tossed "Butch" three feet or more toward the ceilingas
                        he would have tossed a ten-pound bell.
                    "Butch" fell on all fours and scrambled to his feet. Joe
                        was doubled over behind the bar, barking with laughter. The others were
                        laughing, tooeven Chris, who stood a few feet away, with his big shoulders
                        heaving under the spotted suit.
                    "I won't stand for it!" shouted
                        "Butch," rushing toward the big German.
                        "Fatty" grabbed him by the arm and said, "Aw,
                        come off! Don't start nothin'."
                    
                    "I let no fresh guy do that to me."
                    "On the dead, I never see a man get sore so quick," said
                        Joe, his eyes full of tears from the attack of laughter. "Chris
                        meant it in funhuh, Chris?"
                    "Sure. All in fun. Goot-bye, Choe."
                    The two clowns went out the front may, and Joe gave another howl.
                    "You put that Dutchman on to me!" said
                        "Butch," who was hot and nervous.
                    "What are you talkin' about? He done that all in fun. Do
                        you know him? Chris Schlegerthe best weight-lifter on the west side. I seen
                        him beat a professional one night. You can't tell about a guy just
                        becuz you see him in one o' them suits."
                    "The Dutchman's all right," said Jimmy Flynn, and
                        he laughed.
                    Then all of them laughedall except "Butch."
                    The Ludolfia Pleasure Club gave its masquerade without interruption.
                
                
                
                    MISS TYNDALL' PICTURE
                    
                    MISS TYNDALL' PICTURE
                    
                        (SceneThe parlour of the Hazelden house, near the north shore.
                            Mrs. Hazelden is seated by the window, reading a magazine. The door-bell
                            rings. Mrs. Hazelden lowers the magazine and listens. A mumble of voices
                            outside. The housemaid comes to the door, followed by Mr. Custer, who
                            offers to Mrs. Hazelden a slight and embarrassed bow. Mrs. Hazelden
                            rises.)
                    
                    
                        The Housemaid:
                        "He wants to see about the house."
                    
                    
                        Mrs. Hazelden:
                        "Oh!"
                    
                    
                        Mr. Custer:
                        "Yesahthey told me at the agency that you wished to rent your
                            house for the summer. Imy name is Custer."
                    
                    
                        Mrs. H.:
                        "Yes? Won't you be seated?"
                        
                            (They sit.)
                        
                    
                    
                        Mr. C.:
                        "My uncle, Judge Custer, of Custer & Bland, you
                            ?"
                    
                    
                        Mrs. H.:
                        "Oh, yes, indeed, quite often."
                    
                    
                        Mr. C.:
                        "Iahmy brother and his wife wish to spend the summer here. My
                            brother is a professor in Runyon College. We thought it would be
                            pleasant  to take a house for the
                            summersomething pretty well away from town and near the lake.
                            I'm tired of hotel life, and, besides, I belong to the Edgwater
                            Golf Club and could put him up there. I thought it would
                            be"
                    
                    
                        Mrs. H.:
                        "I'm sure it would be. You would like this
                            neighbourhood, too. It's so near the lakeyou can see it from
                            the upper windowsand it's entirely away from the traffic and
                            the smoke."
                    
                    
                        Mr. C.:
                        "Yes'm."
                    
                    
                        Mrs. H.:
                        "Really, you know, I've never had a house that I liked
                            any better. I'd be very well satisfied to remain here all
                            summer, but Mr. Hazelden has a cottage on Lake Tomowoc, and he is very
                            fond of boating and fishing, so he wants to be there all
                            summer."
                    
                    
                        Mr. C.:
                        "Yes'm."
                    
                    
                        Mrs. H.:
                        "I suppose you want to look through the rooms. (She
                                rises.) There are no children?"
                    
                    
                        Mr. C.
                        
                            (rising):
                        "No, only the three of us. (Looking around.)
                            This is a pretty room, isn't it? I like the high ceilings.
                            Hello! (Walks over and looks at a mounted photograph on the
                                mantel.) That's Miss Tyndall, isn't
                            it?"
                    
                    
                        Mrs. H.
                        
                            (cordially):
                        "Why, do you know Fannie
                            Tyndall?"
                    
                    
                    
                        Mr. C.:
                        "I met her a few times on the south side with Jim
                            Wescott."
                    
                    
                        Mrs. H.:
                        
                            (less cordially):
                        "Oh!"
                    
                    
                        Mr. C.:
                        "You know they were"
                    
                    
                        Mrs. H.:
                        "Yes, I know all about it. I suppose you heard why it was broken
                            off."
                    
                    
                        Mr. C.
                        
                            (calmly):
                        "I heard something of the detailsyes."
                    
                    
                        Mrs. H.:
                        "His side of the story, I
                            presume."
                    
                    
                        Mr. C.:
                        "Wellyes. Jim didn't tell me himself, but I think it
                            came from him."
                    
                    
                        Mrs. H.:
                        "Do you know Mr. Wescott quite well?"
                    
                    
                        Mr. C.:
                        "Yes, I might say that I know him intimately. We went to school
                            together."
                    
                    
                        Mrs. H.:
                        "Indeed! Well, what's wrong with him,
                            anyway?"
                    
                    
                        Mr. C.
                        
                            (surprised):
                        "Wrong with Jim? It never occurred to me that there was anything wrong with him."
                    
                    
                        Mrs. H.:
                        "Isn't hequeer?"
                    
                    
                        Mr. C.:
                        "I don't think so. Of course, he's a studious
                            fellow, and isn't quite aseffervescent, you might say, as most
                            of the other fellows in his set, but he's all
                            right."
                    
                    
                        Mrs. H.:
                        "Well, he was out here with Fannie two or  three times last summerthey came out to the golf club and,
                            do you know, the man actually embarrassed me. Whenever you spoke to him
                            he had such a cold, indifferent way of smiling back at you and saying
                            'Oh, indeed'! and then he would wait for you to say
                            something more. He impressed me as being ratherwell, I should
                            sayconceited. He always seemed inclined to patronise women and treat
                            them as creatures of minor intelligence, and yet he never said anything
                            bright or clever himself to back up this calm assumption of superiority.
                            I was perfectly delighted when I learned that the engagement had been
                            broken off. Fannie is such a lovely girl."
                    
                    
                        Mr. C.:
                        "She's a very pretty girl,
                            certainly."
                    
                    
                        Mrs. H.:
                        "Yes, and she's just as nice as she is pretty. You know
                            the Tyndalls used to be neighbours of ours on the south side, and I came
                            to know them ever no well. I always said that Fannie was the dearest thing that ever lived."
                    
                    
                        Mr. C.:
                        "Isn't she inclined to be a little bit
                            lively?"
                    
                    
                        Mrs. H.:
                        "Ohh! No, indeed! Why, really! In what way?"
                    
                    
                        Mr. C.:
                        "Well, perhaps I shouldn't have used that word.
                            I'll admit I don't know her very well. She's
                            charming enough, I suppose, but I've understood that  Jim broke the engagement because she
                            received too many attentions from other men."
                    
                    
                        Mrs. H.
                        
                            (with flashing eye):
                        "Jim broke the engagement! Jim, indeed! Why, Mr.ah"
                    
                    
                        Mr. C.:
                        "Custer."
                    
                    
                        Mrs. H.:
                        "Did he tell you, Mr. Custer, that he broke
                            the engagement?"
                    
                    
                        Mr. C.:
                        "No, he hasn't said much about it to any one, but
                            that's what I understood."
                    
                    
                        Mrs. H.:
                        "Well, there isn't a word of it so. I heard the
                            straight of it from one of Fannie's chums. It seems that he
                            started in to lecture Fannie about dancing with two or three men he
                            didn't like, and she simply refused to be lectured, and ended
                            the engagement then and there. I think that's what any plucky
                            girl should have done, under the circumstances."
                    
                    
                        Mr. C.:
                        "Isn't it possible that Jim knew more about these young
                            men than Miss Tyndall did?"
                    
                    
                        Mrs. H.:
                        "Oh, pshaw!"
                    
                    
                        Mr. C.:
                        "Oh, well, it's all over now, and I honestly think it
                            was better for all concerned. From what I learned of Miss Tyndall, I
                            don't think she would have made the right kind of a wife for
                            him."
                    
                    
                        Mrs. H.
                        
                            (slightly ruffled):
                        "Wellthe right kind what do you mean by that? I suppose she
                            wasn't good enough for Mr.
                            Wescott."
                    
                    
                    
                        Mr. C.:
                        "Well, I think she was too frivolous. I don't consider
                            frivolity a crime, but in some cases it ought to be a hindrance to
                            matrimony. She was a charming girl, in many respects, but (laughing) it always seemed to me that she had a sort
                            ofmatinee education, as you might say. I don't think she
                            aspired to anything higher than chocolate creams."
                    
                    
                        Mrs. H.:
                        "Great heavens, Mr. Custer, she's a girl! She's hardly nineteen. If she had been a
                            studious thing with spectacles, and her hair all plastered down, do you
                            suppose Mr. Wescott would have ever given her a second look? No, indeed!
                            I don't mean any disrespect to your friend, but, really, I
                            think it would have been a positive calamity for Fannie to have married
                            that man. I don't understand why she was attracted to him in
                            the first place. He isn't handsome, is he?"
                    
                    
                        Mr. C.:
                        "No, he isn't particularly handsome, but he
                            isn't repulsive, either. He has the usual number of features.
                            He's a brainy chap."
                    
                    
                        Mrs. H.:
                        "Oh, you'd be sure to take the man's part. (Bell rings.) I wonder if that's some one
                            else to see the house. We've been standing here"
                    
                    
                        Mr. C.:
                        "Yes, I've been listening to you slander poor
                            Jim."
                    
                    
                    
                        Mrs. H.:
                        "Well, really, Mr. Custer, if you knew Fannie as I do,
                            you'd be out of patience, too, with any man who didn't
                            appreciate her. (Housemaid tiptoes in and hands a large,
                                square envelope to Mrs. Hazelden.) It was the postman. Thank
                            you, Mary. Mr. Wescott may be popular among the men, butooh! hes such an
                            iceberg. (Drawing an inner envelope from the large
                                one.) Fannie never would have been happy with such an
                            unsympatheticMercy me!" (Staring at the card
                                folder which she has taken from the envelope.)
                        
                    
                    
                        Mr. C.:
                        "Whaterexcuse me."
                    
                    
                        Mrs. H.:
                        "Ohhh! If thatwell! What do you think?"
                    
                    
                        Mr. C.:
                        "I don't know, I'm sure."
                    
                    
                        Mrs. H.:
                        
                            (shaking the card folder at him):
                        "Do you know what this is?"
                    
                    
                        Mr. C.:
                        "I haven't the slightest idea."
                    
                    
                        Mrs. H.:
                        "A wedding-invitation."
                    
                    
                        Mr. C.:
                        "Theirs?"
                    
                    
                        Mrs. H.:
                        "Theirs. (Reading.) To the marriage of their
                            daughter Fannie to Mr. James Duncan Wescott'and she said
                            she'd never"(compresses her
                            lips).
                    
                    
                        Mr. C.:
                        "Evidently there has been a reconciliation."
                    
                    
                    
                        Mrs. H.:
                        "Evidently.
                        What could that child have been thinking of? (Sighs.)
                            Poor Fannie!"
                    
                    
                        Mr. C.:
                        "PoorI beg your pardon."
                    
                    
                        Mrs. H.:
                        "Isn't that just like a girl?"
                    
                    
                        Mr. C.:
                        "I suppose so. I didn't think Jim would,
                            though."
                    
                    
                        Mrs. H.:
                        "Oh, pshaw! Jim! Jim, indeed! Mr. Custer,
                            women are deceived once in a while, but every man is a perfect
                            greenhorn. Come on. I want to show you the dining-room."
                    
                
                
                
                    MR. PAYSON'S SATIRICAL CHRISTMAS
                    
                    MR. PAYSON'S SATIRICAL CHRISTMAS
                    Mr. Sidney Payson was full of the bitterness of Christmas-tide. Mr. Payson
                        was the kind of man who loved to tell invalids that they were not looking as
                        well as usual, and who frightened young husbands by predicting that they
                        would regret having married. He seldom put the seal of approval on any human
                        undertaking. It was a matter of pride with him that he never failed to find
                        the sinister motive for the act which other people applauded. Some of his
                        pious friends used to say that Satan had got the upper hand with him, but
                        there were others who indicated that it might be Bile.
                    Think of the seething wrath and the sense of humiliation with which Mr.
                        Sidney Payson set about his Christmas-shopping! In the first place, to go
                        shopping for Christmas-presents was the most conventional thing that any one
                        could do, and Mr. Payson hated conventionalities. For another thing, the
                        giving of Christmas-presents carried with it some testimony of  affection, and Mr. Payson regarded any
                        display of affection as one of the crude symptoms of barbarous taste.
                    If he could have assembled his relatives at a Christmas-gathering and opened
                        a few old family wounds, reminding his brother and his two sisters of some
                        of their youthful follies, thus shaming them before the children, Mr. Sidney
                        Payson might have managed to make out a rather merry Christmas. Instead of
                        that, he was condemned to go out and purchase gifts and be as cheaply
                        idiotic as the other wretched mortals with whom he was being carried along.
                        No wonder that he chafed and rebelled and vainly wished that he could hang
                        crape on every Christmas-tree in the universe.
                    Mr. Sidney Payson hated his task and he was puzzled by it. After wandering
                        through two stores and looking in at twenty windows he had been unable to
                        make one selection. It seemed to him that all the articles offered for sale
                        were singularly and uniformly inappropriate. The custom of giving was a
                        farce in itself, and the store-keepers had done what they could to make it a
                        sickening travesty.
                    "I'll go ahead and buy a lot of things at
                        haphazard," he said to himself. "I don't care a
                        hang whether they are appropriate or not."
                    
                    At that moment he had an inspiration. It was an inspiration which could have
                        come to no one except Mr. Sidney Payson. It promised a speedy end to
                        shopping hardships. It guaranteed him a Christmas to his own liking.
                    He was bound by family custom to buy Christmas-presents for his relatives. He
                        had promised his sister that he would remember every one in the list. But he
                        was under no obligation to give presents that would be welcome. Why not give
                        to each of his relatives some present which would be entirely useless,
                        inappropriate, and superfluous? It would serve them right for involving him
                        in the childish performances of the Christmas-season. It would be a
                        burlesque on the whole nonsensicality of Christmas-giving. It would irritate
                        and puzzle his relatives and probably deepen their hatred of him. At any
                        rate, it would be a satire on a silly tradition, and, thank goodness, it
                        wouldn't be conventional.
                    Mr. Sidney Payson went into the first departmentstore and found himself at
                        the book-counter.
                    "Have you any work which would be suitable for an elderly gentleman
                        of studious habits and deep religious convictions?" he asked.
                    "We have here the works of Flavius Josephus in two
                        volumes," replied the young woman.
                    
                    "All right; I'll take them," he said. "I
                        want them for my nephew Fred. He likes Indian stories."
                    The salesgirl looked at him wonderingly.
                    "Now, then, I want a love-story," said Mr. Payson.
                        "I have a maiden sister who is president of a Ruskin club and
                        writes essays about Buddhism. I want to give her a book that tells about a
                        girl named Mabel who is loved by Sir Hector Something-or-Other. Give me a
                        book that is full of hugs and kisses and heaving bosoms and all that sort of
                        rot. Get just as far away from Ibsen and Howells and Henry James as you can
                        possibly get."
                    "Here is a book that all the girls in the store say is very
                        good," replied the young woman. "It is called
                        'Virgie's Betrothal; or, the Stranger at Birchwood
                        Manor.'; It's by Imogene Sybil Beauclerc."
                    "If it's what it sounds to be, it's just what I
                        want," said Payson, showing his teeth at the young woman with a
                        devilish glee. "You say the girls here in the store like
                        it?"
                    "Yes; Miss Simmons, in the handkerchief-box department, says
                        it's just grand."
                    "Ha! All right! I'll take it."
                    He felt his happiness rising as he went out of the store. The joy shone in
                        his face as he stood at the skate-counter.
                    
                    "I have a brother who is forty-six years old and rather
                        fat," he said to the salesman. "I don't suppose
                        he's been on the ice in twenty-five years. He wears a No. 9 shoe.
                        Give me a pair of skates for him."
                    A few minutes later he stood at the silk-counter.
                    "What are those things?" he asked, pointing to some gaily
                        coloured silks folded in boxes.
                    "Those are scarfs."
                    "Well, if you've got one that has all the colours of the
                        rainbow in it, I'll take it. I want one with lots of yellow and red
                        and green in it. I want something that you can hear across the street. You
                        see, I have a sister who prides herself on her quiet taste. Her costumes are
                        marked by what you call 'unobtrusive elegance.'; I think
                        she'd rather die than wear one of those things, so I want the
                        biggest and noisiest one in the whole lot."
                    The girl didn't know what to make of Mr. Payson's strange
                        remarks, but she was too busy to be kept wondering.
                    Mr. Payson's sister's husband is the president of a church
                        temperance society, so Mr. Payson bought him a buckhorn corkscrew.
                    There was one more present to buy.
                    "Let me see," said Mr. Payson. "What is there that
                        could be of no earthly use to a girl six years old?"
                    
                    Even as he spoke his eye fell on a sign: "Bargain sale of
                        neckwear."
                    "I don't believe she would care for cravats," he
                        said. "I think I'll buy some for her."
                    He saw a box of large cravats marked "25 cents each."
                    "Why are those so cheap?" he asked.
                    "Well, to tell the truth, they're out of
                        style."
                    "That's good. I want eight of themoh, any eight will do. I
                        want them for a small niece of minea little girl about six years
                        old."
                    Without indicating the least surprise, the salesman wrapped up the
                        cravats.
                    Letters received by Mr. Sidney Payson in acknowledgment of his
                        Christmas-presents:
                    
                        1.
                        "Dear Brother: Pardon me for not having acknowledged the receipt
                            of your Christmas-present. The fact is that since the skates came I have
                            been devoting so much of my time to the re-acquiring of one of my early
                            accomplishments that I have not had much time for writing. I wish I
                            could express to you the delight I felt when I opened the box and saw
                            that  you had sent me a pair of skates. It
                            was just as if you had said to me: 'Will, my boy, some people
                            may think that you are getting on in years, but I know that
                            you're not.' I suddenly remembered that the presents
                            which I have been receiving for several Christmases were intended for an
                            old man. I have received easy-chairs, slippers, mufflers,
                            smoking-jackets, and the like. When I received the pair of skates from
                            you I felt that twenty years had been lifted off my shoulders. How in
                            the world did you ever happen to think of them? Did you really believe
                            that my skating-days were not over? Well, they're not. I went to the pond in the park on Christmas-day and
                            worked at it for two hours and I had a lot of fun. My ankles were rather
                            weak and I fell down twice, fortunately without any serious damage to
                            myself or the ice, but I managed to go through the motions, and before I
                            left I skated with a smashing pretty girl. Well, Sid, I have you to
                            thank. I never would have ventured on skates again if it had not been
                            for you. I was a little stiff yesterday, but this morning I went out
                            again and had a dandy time. I owe the renewal of my youth to you. Thank
                            you many times, and believe me to be, as ever, your affectionate
                            brother,
                        "WILLIAM"
                    
                    
                    
                        2.
                        "Dear Brother: The secret is out! I suspected it all the time.
                            It is needless for you to offer denial. Sometimes when you have acted
                            the cynic I have almost believed that you were sincere, but each time I
                            have been relieved to observe in you something which told me that
                            underneath your assumed indifference there was a genial current of the
                            romantic sentiment of the youth and the lover. How can I be in doubt
                            after receiving a little booka love-story?
                        "I knew, Sidney dear, that you would remember me at Christmas.
                            You have always been the soul of thoughtfulness, especially to those of
                            us who understood you. I must confess, however, that I expected you to
                            do the deadly conventional thing and send me something heavy and
                            serious. I knew it would be a book. All of my friends send me books.
                            That comes of being president of a literary club. But you are the only
                            one, Sidney, who had the rare and kindly judgment to appeal to the woman
                            and not to the club president. Because I am interested in a serious
                            literary movement it need not follow that I want my whole life to be
                            overshadowed by the giants of the kingdom of letters. Although I would
                            not dare confess it to Mrs. Peabody or Mrs. Hutchens, there are times
                            when I like  to spend an afternoon with an
                            old-fashioned lovestory.
                        "You are a bachelor, Sidney, and as for me, I have long since
                            ceased to blush at the casual mention of 'old maid.';
                            It was not for us to know the bitter-sweet experiences of courtship and
                            marriage, and you will remember that we have sometimes pitied the
                            headlong infatuation of sweethearts and have felt rather superior in our
                            freedom. And yet, Sidney, if we chose to be perfectly candid with each
                            other, I dare say that both of us would confess to having known
                            something about that which men call love. We might
                            confess that we had felt its subtle influence, at times and places, and
                            with a stirring uneasiness, as, one detects a draught. We might go so
                            far as to admit that sometimes we pause in our lonely lives and wonder
                            what might have been and whether it would not have been better, after
                            all. I am afraid that I am writing like a sentimental school-girl, but
                            you must know that I have been reading your charming little book, and it
                            has come to me as a message from you. Is it not really a confession,
                            Sidney?
                        "You have made me very happy, dear brother. I feel more closely
                            drawn to you than at any time since we were all together at Christmas,
                            at the old home. Come and see me. Your loving sister,
                        "GERTRUDE."
                    
                    
                    
                        3.
                        "Dear Brother: Greetings to you from the happiest household in
                            town, thanks to a generous Santa Claus in the guise of Uncle Sidney. I
                            must begin by thanking you on my own account. How in the world did you
                            ever learn that Roman colours had come in again? I have always heard
                            that men did not follow the styles and could not be trusted to select
                            anything for a woman, but it is a libel, a base libel, for the scarf
                            which you sent is quite the most beautiful thing I
                            have received this Christmas. I have it draped over the large picture in
                            the parlour, and it is the envy of every one who has been in to-day. A
                                thousand, thousand thanks, dear Sidney. It was
                            perfectly sweet of you to remember me, and I call it nothing less than a
                            stroke of genius to think of anything so appropriate and yet so much out
                            of the ordinary.
                        "John asks me to thank youbut I must tell you the story. One
                            evening last week we had a little chafing-dish party after
                            prayer-meeting, and I asked John to open a bottle of olives for me.
                            Well, he broke the small blade of his knife trying to get the cork out.
                            He said: 'If I live to get downtown again, I'm going
                                 to buy a corkscrew.'
                            Fortunately he had neglected to buy one, and so your gift seamed to come
                            straight from Providence. John is very much pleased. Already he has
                            found use for it, as it happened that he wanted to open a bottle of
                            household ammonia the very first thing this morning.
                        "As for Fred's lovely books, thank goodness you
                            didn't send him any more story-books. John and I have been
                            trying to induce him to take up a more serious line of reading. The
                            Josephus ought to help him in the study of his Sunday-school lessons. We
                            were pleased to observe that he read it for about an hour this
                            morning.
                        "When you were out here last fall did Genevieve tell you that
                            she was collecting silk for a doll quilt? She insists that she did not,
                            but she must have done so, for how could you have guessed that she wants
                            pieces of silk above anything else in the world? The perfectly lovely
                            cravats which you sent will more than complete the quilt, and I think
                            that mamma will get some of the extra pieces for herself. Fred and
                            Genevieve send love and kisses. John insists that you come out to dinner
                            some Sunday very soonnext Sunday if you can. After we received your
                            presents we were quite ashamed of the box we had sent over to your
                            hotel, but we will try to make up the difference in  heart-felt gratitude. Don't forgetany Sunday.
                            Your loving sister,
                        "KATHERINE."
                        It would be useless to tell what Mr. Sidney Payson thought of himself
                            after he received these letters.
                    
                
                
                
                    LIFE INSURANCE
                    
                    LIFE INSURANCE
                    The moment you see him coming toward you, you are sensible of the fact that
                        his personality towers above your own. He stoops a little, figuratively and
                        literally, when he comes to address you.
                    "Mr. Mark, I wrote to you some time ago in regard to a business
                        matter in which I supposed you might be interested," he says.
                    You do not remember having received any communication from him and you are
                        moderately certain that you never saw the man before, but memory is fickle
                        and you tactfully say "Yes," nodding your head.
                    "I had intended to come around and see you before this," he
                        says. "A friend of yours, Mr. A. J. Booster, in the Behemoth
                        building, was very anxious that I should call in to see you, and I promised
                        him that I would."
                    You remember Mr. Booster, dimly, as a restaurant acquaintance, who makes
                        puns. You wonder why he has put on such a solicitude.
                    You look at the plain card in front of you, "Mr.  Percival Conway," and wonder if he
                        has come to buy those lots in Prairie Glen, which you have been holding at
                        $800, without an offer in four years.
                    "Now, I don't want to interrupt you if you are busy or take
                        up any of your time needlessly," says Mr. Conway, as he glances at
                        a heavily engraved gold watch. "It is now 10.30. If you will have
                        more time at 11.30 or at 2 this afternoon, or at any other hour, I can break
                        my engagements and come here to see you. What I have to say will probably
                        take ten minutes. It's a simple and straightforward business
                        proposition, and I think it will appeal to you as a business man. (This
                        flatters you, in spite of the fact that you haven't an ounce of
                        business sense and never made a success of a trade.) As I said before, I
                        won't take up more than ten minutes, but I don't care to
                        bring the matter to your attention until you feel that you have the time at
                        your disposal."
                    To tell the truth, you are very busy. Your day's work lies before
                        you on the desk and beckons you to activity. But who can resist a man who is
                        so considerate? Besides, it will be over in ten minutes, so why not have it
                        out of the way? You ask him to be seated and put yourself into a serious
                        attitude for listening.
                    "Mr. Mark, I believe that I can put you in the way  of making a little money for yourself, or at
                        least of saving some money year after year, and, at the same time,
                        protecting your family or relations," he begins.
                    This has a suspicious phrasing.
                    "Let's see, you're about twenty-nine years old,
                        aren't you?" he asks.
                    "More than thatthirty-four."
                    "Indeed! I wouldn't have believed it. Now let me see
                        (taking a small book from his inside coat-pocket), you say
                        thirty-fourthirty-fourwell, that isn't so much more. There
                        isn't so much difference in the expectation. Now, Mr. Mark, how
                        much money could you spare every yearmoney to be put aside simply as a sure
                        investment, with the privilege of drawing it out at any time if you saw fit
                        to do so?"
                    You begin to catch the trend of his remarks.
                    "Is this another life-insurance scheme?" you ask as you
                        feel the wrath slowly spreading toward your extremities.
                    "Not exactly, although we guarantee you the incidental insurance the
                        same as the old-line companies. Our proposition, however, differs from all
                        others in this important respect: We allow the interest accumulating on the
                        tontine policy to become a reserve fund, and at the end of twenty years you
                        can either draw this principal or you can apply it on a paid-up  policy at four per cent. interest. Now, for
                        instance, you are thirty-four years old and you take out one of our
                        non-reversible twenty-year policies with the reserve-fund clause. You would
                        pay the first year $186.13, and of that sum $22.49 would go into the
                        contingent department and be applied on the policy direct, while $76.87, as
                        you can see by a glance at this chart, will be put aside, and out of that we
                        allow you the discount, so that the second year you can either pay the
                        $186.13 or you can allow the $14.92 set down here as premium, to apply on
                        the payment, or you can withdraw and take a nine-months' paid-up
                        policy for $1,800, but if you do this you lose the four per cent. interest
                        which I mentioned a few minutes ago, so that, if you care to accept my
                        advice in the matter you will take the same kind of a policy that I wrote
                        for your friend, Mr. Boosterthat is, the reactionable endowment policy, with
                        the clause permitting the accumulation of both premium and interest, so
                        that, after the termination of eleven years, you being only forty-five years
                        old at that time, you can withdraw all that you have paid in up to that
                        time, less the $22.49 indicated in the left-hand column, or, as I said a
                        while ago, you can accept a paid-up policy at the uniform rate, which in
                        your case would he equivalent to $3,400. Now, I suppose the question
                        presents itself to your mind: 'In 
                        what respect does this proposition vary from one that might be offered by an
                        old-line insurance company'?"
                    It is possible that such a question has presented itself, but the probability
                        is that you are wondering what it is all about.
                    Your mind gropes through the murk of technical verbiage as Mr. Conway
                        proceeds to elucidate the difference between his proposition and one that
                        might be made by an old-line company.
                    "In the first place, we apply the premium direct and compute the
                        insurance at the rate of $2.06 a year per $1,000, so that the entire residue
                        goes into the sinking fund and there it draws compound interest for you at
                        the rate of four per cent. per annum. This is made possible under our new
                        system of reducing operating expenses to a minimum and putting the executive
                        department into the hands of men who do not seek pecuniary reward, but are
                        actuated by unselfish and philanthropic motives. Now in this twenty-year
                        automatic policy, which you will probably prefer to any of the others when
                        you have given the matter thorough study, you pay in $2,247.67 and you get
                        at the end of twenty years your $5,000, to say nothing of the incidental
                        protection during that period. Now, in one of the old-line companies you
                        would pay in  $4,862.54, so that we save you
                        $2,600 right there, as well as guaranteeing to you the privilege of
                        withdrawal and the computation of interest, or the acceptance of a paid-up
                        policy. Doesn't that strike you as a generous
                        proposition?"
                    There can be but one answer to this question. You must say
                        "Yes."
                    Suppose you say "No." He will ask you, "Well, to
                        what particular feature of the policy would you object?"
                    Then you would be helpless.
                    If you were to say that you didn't know what he was talking about
                        and that all his arguments were as Greek or Sanscrit, that would be evidence
                        of a feeble understanding, because he gave you to understand at the
                        beginning that he was going to be simple and direct.
                    There is but one way in which to cover your confusion of mind, and that is to
                        nod gravely and say "Yes."
                    However, this is a dangerous thing to do. The moment that you say
                        "Yes," that becomes a practical admission on your part
                        that you are partly under conviction.
                    Immediately he does the magician's trick. He pulls a huge book from
                        under his coat (you wonder how he  managed to
                        conceal it) and begins to fill out an application for a policy.
                    Here you must enter a protest or you are lost. It must be an emphatic
                        protest. You must give some specific reason for not desiring a policy.
                        Whatever that reason may be, he is ready to bombard and demolish it with
                        unanswerable arguments, business proverbs, and figures of speech. Hundreds
                        of men have given him that same reason at various times, and he has studied
                        out his reply, rehearsed it carefully, and fortified himself at every
                        point.
                    So when you start in to dispute ground with Mr. Conway you are in the
                        position of a bewildered novice who is going against the champion of the
                        world.
                    If you say that you have all the insurance you can carry, he will demonstrate
                        to you that you have not. If you mention that you are investing all of your
                        money, he will prove to you that his company offers the only safe and
                        profitable field for investment. If you raise the point that you are
                        unmarried and have no one dependent upon you and therefore feel no
                        disposition to carry insurance, he will produce a green book and read the
                        figures to prove that of every 1,000 men who, at the age of thirty-four,
                        announce that they never will marry, no less than 860 afterward weaken and
                        go to the altar, and this, too, at a time of 
                        life when the insurance rates are becoming very high.
                    So you see, there is no chance for you. The only thing to do is to take out a
                        policy for any amount that he may suggest.
                
                
                
                    OUR PRIVATE ROMANCE
                    
                    OUR PRIVATE ROMANCE
                    It is a boarding-house privilege to sit on the front stoop at dusk. The rooms
                        are small and stuffy. Our landlady cannot afford to provide a roof-garden
                        when rates are $5 per week per person, or $9 a week for a married couple,
                        provided the husband will agree not to come home to luncheon.
                    On this evening in June we noticed the two across the way. These two sat on
                        the stone steps in front of what had been an aristocratic residence five
                        years after the fire. Lest it should degenerate into a ruin, it had become a
                        boarding-house. We lived in a street of boarding-houses.
                    The house was of three stories and the architecture was gloomy and most
                        respectable. The basement, which was really the ground floor, had been
                        thrown into one long dining-room, and here, when the lights were on, we
                        could see the boarders flocked at a series of rectangular tables sparsely
                        set with glass and white ware. It was much like our own ground floor.
                    The three floors above this tunnel-like dining-room were filled with families
                        and roomers. We had come  to know two old men
                        who went in and out at irregular intervals. Then there were at least three
                        elderly women, and the tall one with the military bearing was generally
                        supposed to be the mistress of the boarding department. In addition to these
                        there was the usual straggle of men. The time to see them was near 7.45 each
                        morning as they came slamming out of the house, one after another, and raced
                        away to their eight-o'clock jobs. Three children played in front of
                        the house occasionally, or else looked out from the second-story window.
                    Then there was the girl. She was with a young man who did not belong to the
                        establishment, as we suspected at the time and came to know later on. His
                        summer suit was a real triumph in soft grey, and the straw hat was in the
                        very moment of fashion, being woven of rough straw, the rim very narrow and
                        the ribbon a dazzling tricolour. We could see that he was young and
                        self-satisfied. We felt that perhaps he boarded at an $8 house.
                    The men on our stoop preferred to look at the young woman. She had spread a
                        rug on the landing above the top step and sat in a kind of oriental sprawl,
                        looking down at the young man, who was two steps below. Her shirt-waist was
                        of some light material, and the skirt was of a darker stuff, and her brown
                        hair  was wavy and rebellious. Also, she was
                        very pretty, with eyes and lips, etc. This is a man's description,
                        of course. Our two young women criticised her apparel, but the men silently
                        agreed with the law-student when he said, "She suits me."
                    The majority of us were country-born and we had not overcome that early
                        habit, honestly inherited, of taking a lively interest in the affairs of
                        other people. So we watched the two across the way and talked about them.
                        The men were inwardly jealous of the attractive youth in the grey suit, and
                        the young women were outwardly displeased at his lack of taste.
                    The two sat on the front steps and looked at each other steadily, talking but
                        little. After a little while one of the roomers came out and joined the two
                        on the steps. He was a confident young man with a toss of hair on his
                        forehead and a grating haw-haw laugh, intended to be a token of
                        sociability.
                    For a few minutes he had the conversation all to himself. Then the two came
                        to an agreement, evidently through some code known only to themselves, for
                        they came down the steps and sauntered away together, leaving the hairy
                        young man to trim his nails and smoke his cigar in solitary
                        self-satisfaction.
                    We saw them again, a night or two after that.
                    They sat together on the steps until one of the  women came out to join them, and they wandered away into the twilight,
                        their arms touching.
                    In a little while we had learned his average. It was three times a week. They
                        seemed most happy when there was no third person near. A happy sign.
                    It is tantalising to assist in a love-affair and not know the names.
                    She did not hurry away in the morning with the other eight-o'clock
                        sleepy-heads, but our landlady said that usually she went out at ten,
                        returning not later than four. If she was not regularly employed, perhaps
                        she was merely visiting the woman who took boarders. Probably this woman was
                        her aunt. Mere speculation, all of it.
                    The young man usually approached from the south. Presumably he lived on the
                        south side. A poor fragment of unsatisfactory evidence.
                    After two or three weeks, when any one of the boarders spoke of
                        "he" it was known that he referred to the young man across
                        the way. The girl was "she" the couple
                        "they."
                    The new bulletins came at breakfast and dinner. They were somewhat after the
                        style of the following:
                    "They went again last night."
                    "A messenger boy brought a note to-day. I suppose it was from him."
                    
                    "She sat at the window for nearly an hour to-day
                        and seemed, oh, so lonesome!"
                    "They were out walking all
                        afternoon."
                    "A boy brought a box this afternoon. It looked like a box of
                        flowers. I suppose they were for her."
                    As the colder weather came on and the days were shorter, the men had little
                        opportunity to learn for themselves what was happening. The women made two
                        important discoveries:
                    1. She was doing a great deal of department-store shopping,
                        for the shiny waggons from State Street stopped in front of the place nearly
                        every day.
                    2. She now had as a companion an older woman, who
                        accompanied her as she went out each day.
                    Was this woman her mother? How could she afford to buy so many clothes? Was
                        it possible that the young man was paying for her trousseau? What were in
                        the boxes?
                    No one at our boarding-house could answer these questions, but the young
                        women built a romance around the slender framework of circumstantial
                        evidence. The young man was rich and the girl the daughter of an
                        aristocratic widow who had lost her property, and the young man's
                        parents opposed the match because the girl was poor and had to live in a
                        boarding-house, but the young man, thank heaven,  was true to the girl he loved, and so the mother had come from
                        the old home and had made every sacrifice in order that her daughter might
                        be married in proper style, and so they were to be united and fly away to a
                        honeymoon in Florida, and then come back to live forever in a magnificent
                        flat with rugs and things and their own servants.
                    We hoped that it might be true, and it came about sooner than we had
                        expected.
                    When we trooped home the other evening the landlady and her daughter were
                        throbbing with information. It had happened!
                    The arrival of two carriages first caused comment. The landlady had said to
                        her daughter, "I wonder who"but there is no need of
                        recounting all that.
                    Strange people camestrange people in their best clothes. This was near twelve
                        o'clock. Then a preacherwalking. Any one could have told he was a
                        preachersickly looking man in black. Then he came. Lovely!
                        Black clothessilk hat. Then other peopleon foot. The landlady and her
                        daughter straining their eyes to see what was happening inside the
                        house.
                    About 1.30 the front door opened. Carriage in waiting. Bride looked sweet and
                        wore a going-away gown ofbut no! courage fails. Every one waved  and said good-bye. The landlady (not ours)
                        and the other woman (suspected to be the mother) stood on the steps and
                        watched the carriage until it was out of sight. The other woman cried a
                        little. She must have been the mother.
                    Alackaday! It is all over. The tingle of romance has gone out of our
                        street.
                
                
                
                    MR. LINDSAY ON "SAN JEWAN"
                    
                    MR. LINDSAY ON "SAN JEWAN"
                    It was at the breakfast-table that Mr. Scott Lindsay, a veteran of the real
                        war, read something about the anniversary of the battle of San Juan and
                        began to rattle the paper.
                    "Now, now!" said Mrs. Lindsay, calmly, for she knew his
                        tantrums.
                    "Great grief, mother!" he exclaimed, looking across the
                        table at his wife. "Here's somethin'
                        that'd make old Sherman turn over in his grave. They're
                        goin' to celebrate the anniversary of the battle of San Jewan. Thunderation! The battle of San Jewan!
                            BATTLE! Gosh, all fish-hooks! BATTLE! Say, if the old boys that 'uz with the Army
                        o' the Tennessee ever started in to celebrate the anniversary of
                        every durned little popgun skirmish like that battle o' San Jewan,
                        we wouldn't do nothin' but celebrate, day in and day out,
                        from one year's end to another. We'd have to git up in the
                        night and annyverserate. Battle! Battle nothin'!
                        W'y, around Vicksburg there we used to roll out in the
                        mornin' an' fight three or four o' them battles
                             just to whet our appetites. We
                        didn't call 'em battles, though. We knew the difference
                        between a battle and a ras'berry festival."
                    "Oh, well, father, you must make some allowances," said
                        Mrs. Lindsay. "These boys don't remember the other
                        war."
                    "I guess they don'tI just good an' guess they
                        don't. If they did, they wouldn't be steppin' so
                        high. There's a blamed sight o' difference between
                        chasin' some runt of a dago with a white feather in each hand
                        an' chasin' a six-foot Johnny Reb that jus'
                        raises up on his everlastin' hind legs an' comes at you
                        like a runaway horse, breathin' smoke out of his nose an'
                        ears, by gory, an' yellin' like an Injun. It's
                        easy enough to chase anything that runs the other way, but this hero
                        job's got its drawbacks when the other feller gits it into his head
                        that he wants to do the chasin' an'
                        swoops out o' the woods like an Ioway cyclone, by gosh,
                        pumpin' lead into you till you git too heavy to run. Battle! When
                        we had 'em stacked up till we couldn't see over
                        'em, an' every rigiment 'uz whittled down to a
                        company an' our flags 'uz blown into carpet rags
                        an' the blood got so deep it wet the ammanition in the waggons, we
                        used to begin to suspect that we'd had a battle.
                        Somethin' a little less argymentative than that we called a
                        skirmish. Anything the size o'  this
                        San Jewan basket-meetin' we didn't keep
                        no tally of at all. That kind o' come under the head o'
                        target-practice."
                    "I wouldn't be too hard on 'em, father. They say
                        these boys fought real well down there in Cuby."
                    "Well, to see 'em cavortin around town here in their cowboy
                        hats and gassin' in front of every store, you'd think, by
                        cracky, that every one of 'em had chawed up a thousand o'
                        them Spanish generals whiskers an' all. You take some old codger
                        that crawled through nothin' to keep him alive but hardtack
                        an' hot slough-water, an' he ain't in it no more
                        with one o' these cussed little whipper-snappers, by ginger,
                        thatwell, you ought to heard old Cap Nesbit the other night after
                        post-meetin'. He made a few remarks about these kid soldiers that
                        wouldn't pass muster in a crowd o' women, but they was
                        satisfyin' to me."
                    "I don't see why Cap Nesbit wants to pick onto these
                        boys," said Mrs. Lindsay. "I think they deserve a lot
                        o' credit for enlistin' an' goin' down
                        there in that hot country to fight."
                    "Enlistin's all right an' fightin's all
                        right, if you do it. I don't
                        begrudge no man the credit of goin' out an'
                        fightin' for his country. These boys done well as far as they went,
                        but I don't want no kid to tell me 
                        what war is till he's been through one. These young fellers got a
                        sniff o' blood, and now they think they've been through
                        the slaughter-house. There's old Dan Bailey that got shot so often
                        he didn't mind it at all toward the last, laid in Andersonville
                        till he was a rack of bones, come home here lookin' like a corpse
                        and ain't seen a well day since, and he ain't as big a man
                        in this town to-day as that grandson o' his that went down there to
                        Porty Rico an' laid in a hammock for six months, smokin'
                        cigarettes. He's what they call a hero nowhad an ice-cream
                        reception for him when he come home, didn't they? I don't
                        rickollect that anybody had an ice-cream reception for old Dan when he come home. Heroes wuzn't quite so gosh blamed
                        scarce about that time. Nobody paid any attention to 'em. They used
                        to ship 'em in here by the carload, and most of 'em went
                        right on through town an' out to the graveyard. W'y, these
                        boys, they rode down to that dress-parade in Cuby in sleepin'-cars!
                        With a nigger to brush 'em off an' bring ice-water! Great
                        Jehoshaphat! I'd like to seen somebody ask old Griggs for a
                        sleepin'-car. I'd like to heard what he'd say.
                        Sleepin'-cars! We wuz tickled to death to git box-cars,
                        cattle-carsanything on wheels. We didn't need no porter to brush
                        our cloze, for the darned good reason that we didn't have no cloze
                        to brush. Then  there wuz all that talk about
                        embammed beef. We'd a been mighty glad to git itembammed,
                        petrified, mouldy, or any other way. We thought we wuz lucky if we could git
                        a hunk o' salt pork to drop in with the beans now an'
                        then. We wuzn't out on no moonlight excursion, playin' tag
                        with a lot o' tambourine-players. We wuz out in the underbrush, dad
                        ding my buttons, havin' it out with the toughest lot o'
                        human panthers that ever wore cloze. An' yit, like as not, if we go
                        to breakin' in on this San Jewan celebration, we'll git a
                        back seat in the gallery. We ain't heroes. No! W'y, on
                        Decoration Day these kids marched in front, every one of 'em puffed
                        up like a toad in a thunderstormbigger man than old Grant, as the feller
                        says. Now, they're goin' to celebrate the annyversary of
                        San Jewan. Sufferin' Cornelius! There wuz another likely skirmish
                        about the same time o' year. Gettysburg, I think
                        they called it. Wonder why somebody don't celebrate that!"
                    
                
                
                
                    THE STENOGRAPHIC PROPOSAL
                    
                    THE STENOGRAPHIC PROPOSAL
                    The persons concerned were Walter Humphries, James K. Willington, and the
                        Mrs. Willington who had been Miss Laura Babbitt before it happened.
                    Willington was "James K." Willingtonnot
                        "James" or "J. K." for in this world of
                        shoulder-slappers he never had allowed any one to "Jim"
                        him. Therefore he was a successful lawyer whose very dignity carried him a
                        long way.
                    Miss Laura Babbitt was in mourning when she came into the office. Her father,
                        lately gone to the reward of all lawyers, had been a power in the community.
                        He had made speeches at mass-meetings and more than once he had shaken the
                        challenge of private debate at all who doubted the efficacy of infant
                        baptism or believed there could be any virtue in a protective tariff.
                    He was beloved by a large household, to which he bequeathed a library and a
                        tin box containing the proofs that he had given several mortgages. A few
                        weeks after his death, Laura Babbitt, turned twenty-three, gave up her
                        water-colours and her painting on  china and
                        came to the office of James K. Willington to do type-writing.
                    James K. Willington and Laura Babbitt's father had always disagreed
                        as to baptism and the tariff, and so they had been great friends. They would
                        meet in the Babbitt library of a Sunday afternoon and pound back and forth
                        with great earnestness, coming out at tea-time, both flushed, happy, and
                        thoroughly unconvinced.
                    Ezra Babbitt never had taken to his heart any man who agreed with him on all
                        the main propositions. In the presence of any one who assented willingly,
                        Ezra Babbitt's arguments were like so many blows that find no
                        resistance, and so merely wrench and strain the one who delivers them. His
                        plea would settle into a mere vapoury sermon. James K. Willington disputed
                        so well that Ezra Babbitt prized him as an athlete prizes a punching-bag
                        that pugnaciously comes back when struck, and cannot be hammered to a
                        standstill.
                    They were staunch friends.
                    Laura Babbitt did her work at James K. Willington's law office with
                        cheerfulness and resignation, as if she were realising an ambition, but
                        Walter Humphries knew that she didn't belong in a law-office.
                        Humphries was the law-student of the office. He read law spasmodically, and
                        was learning stenography so that  he could be
                        acourt reporter while he was waiting for practice.
                    And some day he was going to take Laura Babbitt out of an office and
                        establish her as queen of a flat, or possibly a house. He had not apprised
                        her of his plans, but they were large and he regarded them as unselfish.
                    Humphries never suspected James K. Willington.
                    He had observed that his superior was considerate of Miss Babbitt's
                        wishes and made her work light, but he was unprepared for what happened. (It
                        may be noted at this time that Laura Babbitt was and Mrs. James K.
                        Willington is a very good-looking young Woman. However,
                        that is mere detail.)
                    Humphries sat at his table just outside of James K. Willington's
                        private office. Perhaps Willington had forgotten that Humphries was there.
                        That would be a reasonable conclusion in the knowledge of what happened
                        later.
                    Laura Babbitt came in from luncheon, and seeing James K. Willington in his
                        office, went in to speak to him, nodding to Humphries as she passed.
                    The law student was practising his pot-hooks at the time. According to habit,
                        he began "taking" the conversation in the room just behind
                        him. He didn't realise that he was a guilty eavesdropper until it
                        was  too late, and then he went on taking
                        notes because he knew that such a record might prove interesting.
                    This is the conversation. Mr. Willington began it:
                    "Hello, there."
                    "How do you do? I finished that, Mr. Willington."
                    "Is that so? How was the writing?"
                    "It wasn't so bad. One word there bothered me
                        some."
                    "I'm a very careless penman. I suppose most lawyers are bad
                        writers. Your father wrote a remarkable hand."
                    "Didn't he, though?"
                    "Sit down, Miss Babbitt. II believe I told you I'd been
                        wanting to get up and see your mother some time this week about that Thomas
                        matter. How is she?"
                    "She's wellthat is, fairly well."
                    "That's good. So she doesn't worrythat's
                        the main thing. How does she like the notion of your working down
                        here?"
                    "Well, you know she told me to do what I thought was
                        best."
                    "Yes? Well, how do you like it by this
                        time?"
                    "I don't mind it."
                    "Well, I don't know. How about that new paper I had sent
                        overany better?"
                    "Yes, it writes first-rate."
                    
                    "Does it? I didn't know. I told him to send something
                        better than that last. "You've kept Grace at school,
                        haven't you?"
                    "Yes, oh, yes. I want her to go for quite a while yet."
                    "That's right. I'd keep her there as long as I
                        could. I know what your father's wishes would have been. She wants
                        to get out and do something, tooisn't that it?"
                    "She thinks she mightmight be able to do something."
                    "Yes. Let's see, I'm not keeping you from any
                        work, am I?"
                    "No, unless you can think of something. I haven't had much
                        to do lately. I feel sometimes as if I really wasn't much
                        help."
                    "No, you mustn't feel that way."
                    "Thank you, I don't suppose I could have gone to work for
                        any one who would have been more considerate."
                    "It seems to be a beautiful day outside."
                    "Isn't it though? It's warmer, too."
                    "You'd better take off your hat. Isn't it a bad
                        thing to wear a hat in the house?"
                    "That's a man for you! This hat doesn't weigh
                        anything."
                    
                    "Doesn't it? It iswhat is it, new?"
                    "New? Gracious me, I had it all last summer."
                    "It looks new. There was something I wanted to discuss with
                        you."
                    "Yes?"
                    "I'mit puts me in rather an awkward position. I
                        don't know that I can make myself clear. Nowahwhen you came to see
                        me about getting this position here in the office, had you noticed anwell,
                        any hesitancy on my part?"
                    "I can't say that I did."
                    "Well, to tell you the truth, I didn't like the idea of
                        your coming here as an employ$eA."
                    "Why, Mr. Willington!"
                    "Understand me! I was delighted to have you here and I knew that
                        your services would be valuable, but I did not like to put you in the
                        position of, apparently, being under obligations to me. I didn't
                        want you to feel that way."
                    "But I couldn't very well help it. I am
                        under obligations to you. All of us are very grateful, I'm
                        sure."
                    "If you are, I don't suppose I can help it, but what I want
                        you to understand is that whatever I have done for you and your mother has
                        been done because of my friendship for your father and not for the purpose
                             of exercising an undueahinfluence on you
                        or to prejudice you in favour of any proposition which you might, otherwise,
                        be inclined to reject."
                    "I don't know what in the world you are talking
                        about."
                    "Let us take a hypothetical case. A is very fond of Bregards her as
                        a superior and altogether charming woman. Although cognisant of his own
                        unworthiness, he has about decided to make a formal proposal of marriage to
                        this party of the second partB, we have called her. Let us suppose that he
                        does not wish to show haste in making his offer for two reasons, namely: in
                        the first place B has suffered a family bereavement and it might not be
                        regarded seemly and seasonable to speak of marriage at almost the moment
                        when it is discovered that B is in need of financial assistance. Might not B
                        suspect that his action is inspired by a sympathetic impulse or a sudden
                        pity, in which case a woman of proud spirit mightwellshe might resent an
                        offer coming at such a time? Do you follow me?"
                    "YesI think I do."
                    "Very well. Now then! This is the situation. A is very desirous of
                        making the proposition to B but he chooses to wait for the proper and
                        opportune time and then to make it in such a manner and under such  conditions as will permit B to speak her mind
                        freely and have the knowledge that she is under no duress whatsoever. But
                        suppose that in the interim, while A is waiting, with more or less
                        impatience, for affairs to shape themselves so that he may come forward with
                        his proposal, B approaches him and requests him to do what she is pleased to
                        regard as a rather important favour. A does not feel that what he does in
                        her behalf merits any large degree of gratitude, but he finds himself in a
                        delicate position, fearing that if he goes ahead and makes a proposal of
                        marriage, B will more than ever be compelled to question the motives of his
                        previous conduct and feel that he has brought undue influence to bear. Now,
                        perhaps, you will understand what I mean when I say I am almost sorry that I
                        consented to your coming into the office."
                    "Mr. Willington, I think you're making a great deal out of
                        nothing. I've known you for years. There's nothing you
                        could do, or would do, that would make me change my opinion of
                        you."
                    "If I were to make a proposal of marriage to you, and if, for any
                        reason, you felt that your future happiness would not be conduced by an
                        acceptance of it, would you feel at liberty to express yourself freely and
                        fully?"
                    "I'm sure I should. I wouldn't marry a man merely
                             because he had been my father's
                        friend and had helped me to employment."
                    "You would have to entertain for him a regard entirely separate from
                        the mere feeling of gratitude."
                    "Most assuredly."
                    "Very well, thenI am going to ask you to take the matter under
                        advisement."
                    "Well, this almost takes my breath away."
                    "I am ten or twelve years older than you are."
                    "That doesn't make any, difference. I mean"
                    "I do not urge an immediate answer. If you are in doubt as to what
                        you had better do, speak to your mother."
                    "I'll speak to her to-night. But I thinkI'm pretty
                        sure, it's all right."
                    "I'll call this evening if you say so."
                    "I wish you would."
                    "I am glad I have been able to present this to you in such a way as
                        to "
                    "Oh, pshaw! As if you could offend me! I've always liked
                        you better than any other man I ever knew."
                    "Really?"
                    Humphries could "take" no more. He tiptoed from the room,
                        his heart at zero.
                
                
                
                    THE RELATIVES' CLUB
                    
                    THE RELATIVES' CLUB
                    Mr. Newe and Miss Wise were seated on the broad veranda at the Rivulet County
                        Club. Other persons were seated on the same veranda, viewing their
                        neighbours apprehensively. Still others were standing out in the sunshine,
                        bare-headed and bare-armed, so as to hurry the tanning process.
                    The billowy green, stretching far away to the south, was dotted with wiggly
                        white figures and bright-red spotsdistant golf-players.
                        "Distant" refers to their being far away from the
                        club-house and does not bear on their personal characteristics.
                    It should be explained that Mr. Newe was a stranger and a barbarian.
                    
                        Miss Wise:
                        "Do you see that girl with the splendid colour?"
                    
                    
                        Mr. Newe:
                        "The saddle-coloured one?"
                    
                    
                        She:
                        "Yes, the one with the lovely tan."
                    
                    
                        He:
                        "What about her?"
                    
                    
                        She:
                        "That's Miss Transem."
                    
                    
                        He:
                        "Where does she work?"
                    
                    
                        She:
                        "Surely you've heard of the Transems.
                                 Don't you remember that
                            Julia Transem, the oldest girl, was quite a belle in Washington for
                            several seasons? She married that Allison Alexander, son of Senator
                            Alexander, and he drank himself to death or did something."
                    
                    
                        He:
                        "Who is the intellectual giant talking to her
                            there?"
                    
                    
                        She:
                        "Don't you know him?"
                    
                    
                        He:
                        "I've seen his picture in Life, but
                            there wasn't any name under it."
                    
                    
                        She:
                        "Why, that's Jack Grubbley. You know he's a
                            nephew of the big Grubbley in New Yorkthe one that every one knows
                            about. What was his name? Oh, yes!K. Sturtevant
                            Grubbley. They were very wealthy and one night his wife jumped out of
                            the window, wearing all her diamonds."
                    
                    
                        He:
                        "Whose wife? This fellow's?"
                    
                    
                        She:
                        "No, no. The wife of K. Sturtevant Grubbley. The nephew came to
                            Chicago about that time. That's why I remember it so well. He
                            seems to be invited everywhere."
                    
                    
                        He:
                        "On account of the diamonds or simply because she jumped out of
                            the window?"
                    
                    
                        She:
                        "Well, you know, his father is quite prominent too.
                            Wasn't he the one who was black-balled by the Metropolitan Club
                            in New York?"
                    
                    
                    
                        He:
                        "I hope so."
                    
                    
                        She:
                        "Did you see the girl who came to the doorway just now and
                            looked out?"
                    
                    
                        He:
                        "The red-headed one?"
                    
                    
                        She:
                        "Shhh! For mercy's sake, if any one heard you say that!
                            You know the Cervelats practically run this club. That was Miss Effie
                            Cervelat."
                    
                    
                        He:
                        "I am still unimpressed. What is her particular grip on
                            publicity?"
                    
                    
                        She:
                        "Didn't you ever hear of the Cervelat failure? You know
                            her father was all mixed up in that Interstate Bank case. It was
                            supposed that he lost a million dollars, but they've been
                            living right along in the same style ever since."
                    
                    
                        He:
                        "I'm sorry now that I didn't take a good look
                            at her."
                    
                    
                        She:
                        "Her mother and old Mrs. Briggs practically govern the exclusive
                            set on the south side. Do you see the stout woman over there by the
                            post? Yes, the one with the two moles. She's a sister of Mrs.
                            Briggs."
                    
                    
                        He:
                        "That's a peculiar thing. I've been looking at
                            her for several minutes, and I never suspected her of
                            anything."
                    
                    
                        She:
                        "Her name is Solder. She was a Knobbs before she was married.
                            Perhaps you've heard of her 
                            cousin, General Knobbs. He's in the army or
                            something."
                    
                    
                        He:
                        "I'm afraid not. It's strange, too. It
                            doesn't seem possible that a military commander with such a
                            cousin could escape notoriety for any length of time."
                    
                    
                        She:
                        "Look! Don't turn your head, but merely glance over
                            toward the corner. Do you see that boy with the big eyes?"
                    
                    
                        He:
                        "Do you mean the caddy?"
                    
                    
                        She:
                        "That isn't a caddythat's Emerson Stoughton,
                            Jr. Every one has heard of Emerson Stoughton."
                    
                    
                        He:
                        "Junior?"
                    
                    
                        She:
                        "No, his father. They say he owns nearly all of Dearborn Street.
                            You know that they tell the most dreadful stories about
                            him."
                    
                    
                        He:
                        "The fact that he owns nearly all of Dearborn Street is dreadful
                            enough!"
                    
                    
                        She:
                        "You know Em isn't very bright."
                    
                    
                        He:
                        "By Em you mean"
                    
                    
                        She:
                        "Emerson, Junior."
                    
                    
                        He:
                        "You surprise me. I've been watching him light that
                            cigarette and he did it well. He has been trained, I
                            supposeeducated?"
                    
                    
                        She:
                        "Yes; he was at Harvard for four yearsin the freshman class, I
                            believe."
                    
                    
                    
                        He:
                        "Who is that tall one he just spoke to? By George, she'll do."
                    
                    
                        She:
                        "Her name is Elliott. No one seems to know much about
                            her."
                    
                    
                        He:
                        "No aunt that jumped out of the window; no father that soaked
                            the stockholders; no cousins in the army; no sister that married any
                            onehow in the world did she ever break in here?"
                    
                    
                        She:
                        "Well, she was brought out here by the Prudelys. You've
                            heard of Mrs. Prudely. She is a daughter of W. K. Bowser, the great
                            dealer in fertilisers."
                    
                    
                        He:
                        "Oh, well, if she comes with the daughter of a fertiliser, I
                            suppose that gives her a certain standing."
                    
                    
                        She:
                        "They say that Emerson is really fond of her, and I've
                            even heard that they were engaged. I think it would be terrible for him
                            to go and marry her."
                    
                    
                        He:
                        "Horrible!"
                    
                    
                        She:
                        "No one knows anything about her."
                    
                    
                        He:
                        "I suppose she must be after his money. Can you think of any
                            other explanation?"
                    
                    
                        She:
                        "But you don't realise the situation. No one knows
                            anything about her, and she might get hold of poor little Emerson and
                            make him do almost anything."
                    
                    
                    
                        He:
                        "But she might do the same thing even if they knew all about
                            her. Besides, if she gets such an influence over him she may induce him
                            to wear a different kind of shirt. Ah, Emerson has a rival. Who is the
                            other young man talking to the stately Miss Elliott?"
                    
                    
                        She:
                        "That is Mr. Blodgett, grandson of the Blodgett that made so
                            much money in the grain business."
                    
                    
                        He:
                        "You ought to change the name of this club and call it the
                            Relatives' Club. Do all the others out there, going the rounds,
                            have the same kind of notorious kin?"
                    
                    
                        She:
                        "Don't be sarcastic. I'm simply telling so
                            that you may know who these people are."
                    
                    
                        He:
                        "I understandso I may be on my guard. I dare say if these people
                            around here knew that my uncle Blaisdell was shot twice in Quincy,
                            Illinois, they might pay a little more attention to me."
                    
                
                
                
                    GEORGE'S RETURN
                    
                    GEORGE'S RETURN
                    Patrolman Curley tapped with his club against the pickets and the gate-posts
                        as he strolled past the long row of frame buildings in Woolover Street. It
                        was a misty, moonlight night, and Patrolman Curley had just pulled the one
                        o'clock box at the corner to let the station know that he was
                        alive.
                    As he passed the wooden houses, with the roofs peaked to a uniform height and
                        the front stoops built all alike, he reflected that there was little need of
                        a policeman along such a street. No burglars would have been attracted to
                        the neighbourhood, and the residents were too tired from hard work to remain
                        up at night and be disorderly.
                    Patrolman Curley supposed that he had the whole street to himself until he
                        glanced ahead and saw a man leaning against the fence. As he came nearer the
                        man asked: "This ain't Gillespie, is it?"
                    "No, sir, this is Curley."
                    "There used to be a fellow named Gillespie on this
                        beat."
                    "He's up at Maxwell Street now."
                    
                    "Well, maybe you can tell me. Doesahdoes Mrs. Fisher still live here
                        at 852?"
                    "How should I know? I don't keep accuainted with all the
                        people on my beat."
                    "Will you go up to the door with me till I find out?"
                    "Can't you find out for yourself? What's the
                        mattersomebody sick?"
                    "NoI'll tell you. She's my wife."
                    "Well, if she's your wife you don't need me to
                        introduce you, do you?"
                    "To tell you the truth, officer, I don't know whether
                        she'll be glad to see me or not. I've been away since a
                        year ago last winter."
                    "You'd better come around in the daytime, my friend. Here
                        at one o'clock in the morning is no time for settlin' old
                        family troubles."
                    "I'd like mighty well to see her to-night, if
                        she's in there."
                    "Why didn't you come around early in the
                        evening?"
                    "I didn't get in town till to-night. I've been
                        looking for a friend of minecouldn't find him."
                    "Well, what good can I do?"
                    "You just come up with me to let her know it's all right.
                        If I call her out of bed she may come to the front door and see me and think
                        I've come back to  make trouble for
                        her. Then again, if she's still mad at me, I don't want to
                        quarrel with her at all. I'll go away in a peaceable manner.
                        I'm a law-abiding citizen, and I always have been. I want you for a
                        witness to what happens right here to-night."
                    "What was your trouble about anyway? Another man?"
                    "No, sir; I never thought that Maude cared for any one besides
                        me."
                    "Maude!"
                    "That's her name, officerMaude. We'd been married
                        ten years before we had this trouble, and if I told you now what made it,
                        you wouldn't hardly believe me"
                    "Well, what was it? Y' can't keep me up.
                        I'm here till four o'clock."
                    "We'd never had any fallin' out, you know. Why,
                        we've got a boy, Bertrand, that's eight years old now and
                        got more sense than both of us put together. I don't know how to
                        begin to tell you. You know these continuous shows, don't
                        you?"
                    "Yes."
                    "Well, me and Maude never went to the theatre much after we moved to
                        Chicago because Bertrand was a baby and we couldn't take him with
                        us. After he got a little older, though, we went once in a while  I had a good job over at the desk factory,
                        but I never believed in wastin' money and didn't care much
                        for shows anyway. Maude liked to go and talked a good deal about every show
                        we went to, but, as I say, I didn't feel that I could afford to pay
                        out a dollar or two every week for foolishness. But when these continuous
                        shows started, so that she could go any afternoon and get a good seat for
                        thirty cents, she got crazy on the theatre. She could take Bertrand along
                        and hold him on her lap, and of course there wasn't much housework
                        to do, and I s'pose she must have went to those places about three
                        days out of every week. I wouldn't have cared for that so much,
                        because I think a woman ought to enjoy herself, but she got so that she
                        couldn't think of anything or talk of anything but variety shows.
                        She was singin' darkey songs around the house all the time and
                        tellin' these jokes she'd heard, and she got so she knew
                        the names of all them variety actors, and she used to say that So-and-So had
                        a good act, and somebody else was poor, and somebody else ought to change
                        their performance, and so on."
                    "So that's why you shook her?" asked Patrolman
                        Curley.
                    "Nohold on. There's another side to the story. Just about
                        the time she was takin' in all the cheap shows in town I went with
                        a friend of mine named Dan  Jerrold to see a
                        spiritual exhibition over at a widow woman's house near
                        Twenty-sixth Street. It was the first thing of the kind I ever saw, and I
                        thought there was something to it. I did, honest. I talked to my father
                        through this medium and got messages from some friends of mine, and I
                        s'pose I was purty well worked up about it for a few weeks and
                        couldn't think of much else. Well, when I tried to talk
                        spiritualism to Maude, she simply had a fit. She just hollered and laughed
                        and that was all. It made me so mad, I said she'd better stop
                        gaddin' around to variety shows and pay attention to something
                        serious. In fact, I told her in so many words that she mustn't go
                        to any more theatres with Bertrand unless I went along. She went, just the
                        same. Then we had it. Before long we got so we couldn't speak
                        without gettin' into a quarrel. One day we had it hot and heavy and
                        I just up and told her I was goin' to leave. She told me to get out
                        and never come back. The house was in her name already and I turned over the
                        bank-book to her and started for Birmingham. I knew she wouldn't
                        starve, for if she got hard up she could sell the place and go back to her
                        father's folks. They're well off."
                    "And you haven't heard from her since?"
                    "Not direct from herno. Before I left here I went to Dan Jerrold and
                        told him to write me once  in a while and let
                        me know how she was gettin' along. After I got to Birmingham he
                        wrote to me that my brother had come here to live with her, and that she
                        seemed to be enjoyin' herself. That was a year ago last spring. I
                        was in Alabama all summer, but in the fall I went to Florida and worked as a
                        carpenter all winter; pulled up and went over to New Orleens in the spring,
                        and got back to Birmingham here about a month ago. When I got there I found
                        a letter for me advertised in the newspaper. I went around and got it. It
                        was from Dan Jerrold. He said my wife had been askin' about me and
                        seemed to be worried. I'd made him promise not to tell her where I
                        was, and he said he hadn't told her. He said she'd changed
                        a good deal and didn't go to shows any more and he had a notion
                        that she'd like to live with me again. Now the funny part of it is
                        that before I got this letter I'd changed my opinion about this
                        spiritualism business."
                    "When you're dead, you're dead," observed
                        Patrolman Curley, judicially.
                    "Yes, I guess that's right. W'y, I saw a fellow in
                        Montgomery one night go into a cabinet and do every blamed thing that I ever
                        saw at a seance. Then he showed just how he worked it, and I could see that
                        I'd probably been fooled by these people here at the widow
                        woman's. The more I thought about it, the less I  blamed Maude for makin' fun of me.
                        Then when I got this letter from Dan it kind o' decided me to come
                        back to Chicago. I finished some work I was at and collected a little money
                        due me, and come along. Our train was late. We got in here about eleven
                        o'clock and I went over to the place where Dan Jerrold used to
                        board. I thought I'd see him first and find out how things stood.
                        Well, he'd moved somewheres and they couldn't tell me
                        where. I went to two or three places where I thought he might be, but I
                        couldn't get track of him, so I thought I'd come out here.
                        After I got here, I didn't know what to do. I was afraid that mebbe
                        somebody else lived in the house. When I saw you comin' I wondered
                        if it was Gillespie, so I waited."
                    Patrolman Curley bored the gate-post with his club and nodded his head in
                        quiet laughter.
                    "You're a wonder," he said.
                        "What's the name again?"
                    "FisherGeorge Fisher."
                    "Come on, George."
                    The policeman climbed up to the front door and pounded with his club. He
                        paused, and for a few moments there was a death-like quiet. George Fisher,
                        on the lower step, had taken off his hat and was wiping his brow with a red
                        handkerchief.
                    Once more the club rattled noisily against the panels,  and as Patrolman Curley stopped to listen, a timid voice from
                        behind the door asked: "What is it?"
                    "It's her!" whispered George.
                    "Is this Mrs. Fisher?" asked the policeman.
                    "Yesyes, sir. Who is it? What do you want?"
                    "It's all right. Don't be afraid. I'm a
                        police officer. Go on; open the door."
                    "Well, what do you want?"
                    "I want to tell you something, my good woman. It's all
                        rightopen the door."
                    There was a hesitating turn of the lock. The door squeaked back and the
                        tousled head of a woman in white appeared in the narrow opening.
                    "What in the world is it?" she asked.
                    "A man here wants to see you."
                    "Who is he? What about?"
                    "He says he's your husband."
                    "George?"
                    "It's me, Maude," said George, meekly.
                    He had been hidden by the big patrolman, but now he moved up a step.
                    "Well, of all things!" exclaimed the woman, peeking through
                        the doorway.
                    "Do you want him to come in?" asked the policeman.
                    
                    "Well, George Fisher, of all the fool tricks. Comin' around
                        here this time of night with a policeman!"
                    "I just got in town," said George, in a husky voice.
                    "Well, get in here, for mercy's sake! What will the
                        neighbours say, hearin' such a racket at this time of
                        night?"
                    The door opened, with Maude discreetly hiding behind it.
                    George sidled in and Patrolman Curley heard him ask: "Is Bert at
                        home?"
                    Before there was time for an answer the door slammed.
                    Patrolman Curley turned. The street was again quiet in the misty moonlight.
                        He hit the gate-post a noisy thwack as he passed it.
                    "George and Maude! Glory be to Ireland!"
                
                
                
                    HARRY AND ETHEL
                    
                    HARRY AND ETHEL
                    A conversation between Harry and Ethel.
                    
                        Ethel:
                        "Is it cold outside?"
                    
                    
                        Harry:
                        "Yes, I believe it is."
                    
                    "Don't you know?"
                    "Yes, I know it ishorribly cold. You can tell by the frost on the
                        windows."
                    "Do you have any trouble in keeping your house warm?"
                    "I don't believe sohadn't noticed."
                    "Hadn't noticed what?"
                    "What was it you asked me?"
                    "I asked you if that was a new cravat."
                    "No, it's an old one. That isn't what you asked
                        me."
                    "Yes, it is. I think it's perfectly lovely."
                    "Do you? I don't like it very well myself."
                    "I don't see why. It's awfully
                        becoming."
                    "Do you really think so?"
                    "Yes, I do, really. Now don't go to fixing it, or
                        you'll spoil it. It was just right before."
                    
                    "All right, I'll hold still."
                    "You don't like white ties, do you?"
                    "Noexcept on somebody else."
                    "What's your objection to them?"
                    "They have a professional look, or rather, a suggestion of
                        advertising your business. When I see a man with a white tie, I always
                        conclude that he is either a minister or a bartender."
                    "But Mr. Hotchkiss wears a white tie, and he isn't
                        either."
                    "Hotchkiss isn't anything worth speaking of."
                    "Oh, Harry, if Sister Laura heard you say that."
                    "Well, I wouldn't care very much. She must know by this
                        time that I have no use for him. The idea! In this day and age of the world,
                        and in Chicago, of all places, a mana male manletting his hair grow long,
                        putting on nose-glasses and a white tie, and starting out to lecture before
                        afternoon clubs onwhat is it he lectures on, anyway?"
                    "Oh, the True Somethingness of Beauty, I guess it is. Laura says
                        he's terribly bright. She says there are very few people that
                        appreciate him."
                    "She's dead right about that. I know of twenty men that
                        will pay him any price to come over to the club and put on the gloves. But
                        the women seem to think he's all right."
                    
                    "Oh, some of them do, or they pretend to. Just at this minute he is
                        a novelty, a fad."
                    "Just at this minute and every other minute he isa freak. Why do
                        women get stuck on that kind of a fellow?"
                    "They don'texcept for a little while. They merely take him
                        up, just to be doing."
                    "Just to be done, you mean."
                    "Do you know, just now Laura thinks he is the cutest thing! But
                        that's like her. She's always crazy about something or
                        other, but never more than one thing at a time. If it isn't mental
                        science, it's an automobile or a dog or French lessons or
                        something. I think it's a blessing that a person can't be
                        crazy on too many subjects at the same time, don't you? But I must
                        confess that Hotchkiss is about the worst attack she's had. And it
                        makes her so mad because I snub him."
                    "What difference does it make to her how you treat
                        him?"
                    "Well, I think she labours under the delusion that he would be a
                        happy addition to our family. She can't marry him, because she is
                        already tied up to a commonplace, every-day broomstick of an old man, who
                        works in the office fourteen hours a day so as to keep her supplied with
                        luxuries."
                    
                    "Such as lecturers."
                    "Yeslecturers, antique furniture, and Chihuahua dogs. As I tell you,
                        she can't marry Mr. Hotchkiss herself while Henry cumbers the
                        earth, and so she has generously turned him over to me."
                    "You're not serious, are you?"
                    "I am, really."
                    "You don't mean to say that she has
                        actuallysuggestedsuchathingas your taking up with itwith
                        that?"
                    "Well, not in so many words, but she has sung his praises to me
                        early and late, and is simply furious whenever I show the slightest
                        inclination to make fun of him. She has assured me that he is distinctly
                        superior to any other man of my acquaintance."
                    "Especially me, I suppose."
                    "Yes, I think she meant you in particular. She says that Mr.
                        Hotchkiss lives in another spherethat he has lifted himself above the sordid
                        and something-or-other considerations and so-on of the whole
                        thingumbob."
                    "Indeed! I'd like to lift him still farther. Great grief!
                        Wouldn't he be a dandy piece of bric-$aG-brac to have around the
                        house seven days in the weekalways with a white necktie, writing lectures on
                        pink paper! Your sister's a nice woman, but I don't think
                             much of her judgment when she tries to
                        pair you off with thatthat"
                    "Oh, go ahead and say it. I've heard it on the stage so
                        often that I'm becoming hardened to it."
                    "Your sister has it in for me, hasn't she?"
                    "Why, Harry! I don't think so."
                    "Yes, you do think so, too, and you know so, too.
                        She objects to my coming around to see you so often."
                    "But you don't come often."
                    "There are seven nights in the week. I hate been here six out of the
                        seven."
                    "Of course, you do come often, but what I mean is, that you
                        don't come too often."
                    "Well, it isn't too often for me, as long as you
                        don't mind. But you can depend upon it, when she says sarcastic
                        things about the young men of your acquaintance, she means me."
                    "Do you really think so?"
                    "Of course. You probably haven't heard it yourself, but
                        there is a rumour all over the south side that I am head over heels in love
                        with you, and that if you refuse me I am going to throw myself in front of
                        an Illinois Central train."
                    "Why, Harry! How you go on!"
                    "Even the guv'norwho is about the last man on  earth to catch on to anythinghe heard about
                        it and asked me if I had come to an understanding."
                    "What did you tell him?"
                    "I told him that I might be able to report in a day or
                        two."
                    "How in the world do such stories get out? You haven't been
                        paying such marked attention to me, have you?"
                    "Haven't I?"
                    "Have you?"
                    "If I haven't, it's because I didn't know
                        how."
                    "Why, Harry!"
                    "I have dogged your footsteps for two months."
                    "I hadn't noticed it."
                    "Everybody else has."
                    "But you never said anything."
                    "I know it, but I've been trying different kinds of
                        nerve-food preparatory to saying something."
                    "You seem to have found one at last."
                    "No, it was this Hotchkiss news that aroused me to a sense of my
                        duty. Up to this time I have been restrained by a sense of my own
                        unworthiness, but when Hotchkiss is named as a possible rivalwell,
                        that's different. As compared with Hotchkiss, I am a good thing.
                        Any girl that is threatened with Hotchkiss 
                        ought to be willing to marry almost any one in order to save herself. He is
                        something dire."
                    "Harry! How dare you speak of such a thing?"
                    "Whowhat? Hotchkiss?"
                    "No, before that. What else did you say?"
                    "When?"
                    "Why, just a moment ago."
                    "I don't remember."
                    "It was something about marrying."
                    "Oh, that's what you want to talk about, is
                        it?"
                    "No, it isn't. I simply want to know what you mean by
                        saying that I would marry any one. You know better than that."
                    "No, I said you would probably be willing to marry me, if only to
                        escape from Hotchkiss."
                    "That isn't what you said, at all."
                    "That's what I meant, anyway. I'll tell you,
                        you've either got to take me or put me out of my misery. I never
                            did have such a violent attack before."
                    "Oho? But you have had other attacks? Only this
                        one is more violent, is that it?"
                    "Of course, I had a good many girls at school."
                    "Indeed!"
                    "Yes, but I never felt this may before. This is the first time I
                        ever wanted to lick every man that even looked at her. I don't
                        think those girls ought to count  at all. Of
                        course, we used to take them out boat-riding and hug thema
                        little."
                    "A little?"
                    "But, pshaw! What's the use of talking about them? Will you?"
                    "Will Iam I to understand that this is a
                        proposal?"
                    "I don't see what else you can make out of
                        it."
                    "Well, it's the strangest proposal I ever
                        received."
                    "I thought perhaps you'd like to have me vary the form. I
                        knew you were tired of hearing the other kinds. Now, if you will only depart
                        from your usual custom and say 'Yes' instead of
                        'No,' that will help matters still further."
                    "Oh, very well. I want to he just as original as you
                        are."
                    "Then I take it that I am accepted."
                    "You haven't any of the symptoms of a man who has just been
                        accepted."
                    "Pardon me. I didn't mean to keep you
                        waiting."
                    TABLEAU.
                
                
                
                    "BUCK" AND GERTIE
                    
                    "BUCK" AND GERTIE
                    Buchanan Caster, or "Buck" (he preferred the latter title),
                        was man of all work for a family on the boulevard.
                    This family had come into wealth, and was making a weak effort to change its
                        mode of life, without having any heart in the endeavour.
                        "Buck" was the only man-servant and there was nothing of
                        the servant in him. He was an independent product of a small town in
                        Michigan, and, although he consented to curry the Chamberlain horses, mow
                        the Chamberlain lawn, and even wear a tall hat while driving the Chamberlain
                        carriage, he did so with the full mental reservation that he was
                        "just as good" as any of the Chamberlains, living or dead,
                        and possibly a few degrees keener on ordinary topics.
                    He assumed an easy familiarity with Jonas Chamberlain, the head of the
                        family, and he addressed Harry Chamberlain, the son, by his first name. He
                        respected Mrs. Chamberlain as a woman of sound judgment, but he considered
                        it his privilege to disagree  with her at
                        times and enter into argument. He liked the two Chamberlain girls, and was
                        willing to do almost any kind of favour for them, if properly
                        approached.
                    "Buck" Caster considered that he was the one level-headed
                        and responsible person around the Chamberlain premises. He was willing to
                        receive suggestions from the Chamberlains, but he much preferred that they
                        should come to him for advice. Usually they came.
                    The imported menialsthose who sit in wooden stiffness on the carriage-boxes,
                        who never relax their solemn features except to say, "Yes,
                        mum," and who always see between themselves and their employers a
                        vast and unbridgable chasmwould have said that "Buck" was
                        a total failure as a servant. Probably this was true. He never regarded
                        himself as a servant. "Buck" seemed to feel that he was
                        general manager for the Chamberlains.
                    He might have grown grey as superintendent of the family if it had not been
                        for Gertrude.
                    She was the cook.
                    From the day of her arrival, when "Buck" carried the
                        fragile yellow trunk up to the room under the roof, a change came over the
                        household. "Buck's" whole conduct was altered.
                        Much of his imperial dignity deserted him. He lost that air of bustling
                        importance  which made him the wonder of the
                        small boys in the neighbourhood.
                    He lacked industry, and when he drove the carriage he sat humped over and
                        allowed the lines to hang loosely, so that as a driver he was a pitiable
                        spectacle. A hired hand going to town with a load of oats would have made
                        just as smart a picture.
                    The truth was, and it could not be concealed, that "Buck"
                        was in love with Gertrude, the cook. He had been smitten severely and
                        instantaneously.
                    She was a tall and cleanly creature of twenty-eight, a plodding worker, and a
                        jewel for any household. At first she was pleased by
                        "Buck's" kindly attentions, but when he began to
                        show a desire to be assistant cook instead of general manager; when he
                        lingered around the kitchen at unreasonable hours and stared at her
                        devouringly, and especially when he began to send presents, she was deeply
                        frightened.
                    Gertrude came from a conservative family in Will County, and she did not
                        choose to approach matrimony in a gallop. Accordingly she repulsed
                        "Buck" one night when he attempted to read to her a
                        love-poem clipped from the Fireside Companion. She
                        repulsed him, and she ordered him from the kitchen.
                    "Buck" went out that evening in company with an Irish
                        coachman from the opposite side of the boulevard  and drank beer in order to extinguish the devouring flames of
                        his unrequited love.
                    Coming home at 10.30, and finding Gertrude still up, he denounced her in a
                        voice that could be heard four lots away.
                    This was too much for the patient Chamberlains. Next day Jonas Chamberlain
                        attempted to reprimand "Buck," who resented the
                        interference with his inalienable and Michigan-fostered rights, and went
                        away, leaving the family to shift for itself.
                    Gertrude was melancholy after that.
                    She seemed to hold herself accountable for his downfall and the breaking of
                        the time-hallowed tie.
                    It may have been that when Gertrude drove "Buck" from the
                        kitchen she did not intend the dismissal to be final. Certainly she was no
                        happier, for "Buck's" successor, a mild German
                        youth, could go to the kitchen a dozen times without so much as seeing
                        her.
                    Gertrude became more melancholy, more pious, more regretful. She was a
                        regular attendant at religious services. The family supposed that she
                        attended the Methodist Church. Not so. She had taken up with the Salvation
                        Army.
                    She had enlisted and was into the fight, consecrated and red-striped, before
                        the family had a chance to remonstrate. She gave up her position, made a
                        fervent  little speech to Mrs. Chamberlain and
                        then went away, burning with zeal.
                    Mrs. Chamberlain had been a friend to the army, but that day, as she drove to
                        the intelligence office, she said several spiteful things about the
                        abduction of cooks.
                    The Chamberlains heard nothing from either Buchanan or Gertrude, although
                        many weeks passed by.
                    There came a Saturday night in the last month of the political campaign. A
                        deafening band, followed by a straggle of shouters, had passed by. Two
                        corner orators, drunken and incoherent, were shouting and sputtering at each
                        other, while a crowd stood around and encouraged them by good-natured
                        yelping. Above all the noise and confusion of partisan politics rose the
                        swinging notes of an old-fashioned hymn, the thump of a drum, and the rattle
                        of tambourines.
                    Harry Chamberlain had tired of the political shouters. He strolled off into
                        the side street, where the swinging flame of a big torch lighted the circle
                        of spectators drawn around a group of Salvation Army soldiers.
                    The singing had ceased, and a woman, mounted on a chair, was exhorting. Her
                        high, sonorous voice ran freely. She spoke with hysterical fervour, never
                        hesitating,  never in doubt as to what she
                        wished to say. Harry Chamberlain idled along the edge of the crowd until he
                        could see the face half-shaded by the poke-bonnet.
                    It was Gertrude.
                    Gertrude, the silent woman of the kitchen, transformed by religious ecstasy
                        into a fiery advocate. He pressed forward and a second surprise awaited
                        him.
                    There, in red shirt, with huge bass-drum strapped to him, his face illumined
                        with interest in the speaker, rolling "Amens," fondling
                        the drumstick with hot impatience, was Buchanan Caster.
                    Harry moved around so as to get near the drummer. Presently the meeting was
                        over.
                    "Buck!" said Harry.
                    "Hello, Harry!" exclaimed the drummer. "Did you
                        hear the sergeant speak? Ain't she wonderful? Say, I went into the
                        meeting one night and saw her there. I went right up and joined. Then she
                        knew I meant business. We're doin' a wonderful work
                        wonderful!"
                    
                        "Take me back to the spot
                        
                        
                            Where I first saw the light."
                    
                    The whole squad took up the song.
                    "Bang!" went the drum. Harry ran to get out of the way of
                        the marchers.
                    
                    He saw Gertrude lead on, swinging a tambourine above her head, and behind her
                        was "Buck," leaning back until he could look straight up
                        at the stars, and pounding the drum until it quivered.
                
                
                
                    THE SCAPEGOAT
                    
                    THE SCAPEGOAT
                    "Hello, Billy."
                    "Hello, Tom."
                    "You're here, are you? Been waiting long?"
                    "I just this minute sat down. You're on the
                        dot."
                    "Punctuality is one of my two virtues. I was afraid you
                        wouldn't get the note."
                    "I found it in the box this morning. Where is this place
                        you're going to take me?"
                    "It's a garden away out north. I've got an open
                        carriage outside therebeautiful night for a ride."
                    "And the wife?"
                    "She's out therein the carriage."
                    "Well, let's not keep her waiting. I'm
                        ready." (Starting.)
                    "Sayhold on; you needn't throw away your cigar. Sit down.
                        She can wait a moment."
                    "Well, maybe she can, but can I? You must remember
                        I've never seen the wife."
                    "You'll get a good look at her presently. Before we go out
                        there, I want to refresh your memory."
                    
                    "Do what?"
                    "Refresh your memory. You knowwe were together last
                        evening."
                    "Were we?"
                    "We wereunless you want me to pay alimony. Don't you
                        remember? You see, yesterday afternoon I thought possibly you were in town
                        already, so I came around to the hotel about half-past five and found you
                        here. You were delighted to see me, of courseroomed together at college,
                        fraternity brothers, shaved with the same razor and all that. You insisted
                        that I take dinner with you."
                    "Did I?"
                    "I should say you did. You insisted and kept on insisting. You said
                        you would be deeply hurt if I didn't cut everything else and dine
                        with you. I tried hard to tear myself away. I told you that my wife was
                        waiting for me at home; that her sister had come over to spend the day, and
                        that if I didn't show up for dinner, she wouldn't speak to
                        me for a week. Then you said that an old friend had certain claims that even
                        a wife would have to recognise and give way to. You said that I could dine
                        with my wife every other day in the year, but this was the one day that I
                        would have to give over to the oldest and dearest friend of my boy-hood
                        days."
                    
                    "It seems that I was quite determined to have you dine with
                        me."
                    "Billy, you were simply immovable. You wouldn't take
                        'No' for an answer. You ordered dinner for two while I was
                        trying to break away. You said that you were absolutely certain my wife
                        would not mind at all, when she learned all the facts in the
                        case."
                    "I am to remember all this, am I?"
                    "You are to remember all that and more. I anticipate a
                        cross-examination."
                    That's pleasant."
                    "You are to be prepared to tell what we had for dinner, repeat
                        portions of the conversation, mostly in regard to the dear old days in
                        college, and to testify that I drank only two glasses of wine."
                    "All of which is a cheerful prospectbut I can't say that
                        I'm surprised. You may recall that I had to do more or less lying
                        for you when we roomed together."
                    "I know, Billy, but this is different. It was easy enough to fool
                        the faculty, but it requires an artist to convince my wife that
                        there's nothing wrong when I fail to show up for dinner and
                        don't get in until two in the morning."
                    "Was it as bad as that?"
                    
                    "Well, that's merely a rough outline of it"
                    "Where were you, anyway?"
                    "I was with you."
                    "Yes?"
                    "Oh, yes. This is where you have to do some more refreshing. You
                        will recall that we sat at the table for at least an hour talking over old
                        times and then we went up to your room."
                    "Why did we go up there?"
                    "I've got that all fixed. We went up there to look at some
                        photographsold friends of ours, college friends."
                    "It seems, Tom, that the college theme runs all the way through this
                        masterpiece."
                    "That's right. We sat up in your room and talked about the
                        men in our class, the ball-games we used to win, and so onabout nearly
                        everything, except girls. We didn't talk about girls, remember
                        that. When I was in school I was rather diffident and knew only two or three
                        girls in town."
                    "Great Scott!"
                    "Now you've got a general idea of the whole thing. I came
                        around early, and you compelled me to stay to dinner. After dinner we sat at
                        the table and talked, and finally you suggested that we go up to your room
                        and look at those photographs."
                    
                    "What would a man on his way to Yellowstone Park be doing with a lot
                        of old photographs?"
                    "That's what she asked. I told her that you always carried
                        them with youone of your peculiarities. We looked at these photographs, fell
                        into a rambling conversation, and forgot all about the time until you
                        happened to look at your watch and told me it was after one
                        o'clock. I was horrifiedran out and got into a cab and went
                        home."
                    "And she believes it, does she?"
                    "She will if you corroborate the whole thing. Here, watch me. Do you
                        remember the sign of distress we used to have in the frat? Well, I give it
                        to you now."
                    "By George, Tom you are a wonder. So this is to be my introduction
                        to your wife, is it? A fine reputation you've given me! Do you know
                        where I was last evening? Calling on an uncle on the west
                        side sitting on the veranda and talking Christian science."
                    "You merely thought you were out there. As a matter of fact you were
                        down here with me."
                    "Talking of the beloved college days."
                    "Happy college days!"
                    "From half-past five in the afternoon until after one
                        o'clock in the morningin the house all the time, and the
                        thermometer at 90."
                    "I'll admit that the story might be improved, but  it was the best I could do in the time I had.
                        Good or bad, it has been spread on the records, and it must be backed up.
                        She asked me if it wasn't rather warm sitting in a hotel bedroom
                        all evening, and I told her that you had a room on the tenth floor and got a
                        fine breeze."
                    "But there are only seven floors in this hotel."
                    "Oh, well, she won't stop to count them."
                    "Does she think it was decent of me to compel you to dine downtown
                        when she and her sister were waiting for you at home? In other words, how do
                        I stand with the wife?"
                    "She may be a trifle sarcastic, but don't you mind that
                        "
                    "Oh, certainly not! Don't mind it! You
                        seem to make it out that I'm as guilty as you are. You infernal
                        reprobate! However, I suppose I must face it out. By the way, where did you go last night?"
                    "Well, I'll tell you, Billy. An old customer came into the
                        place about five o'clock "
                    "Never mind. I don't care to tax your imagination too
                        muchall in one day. We'll go out and meet the wifeand begin to
                        lie."
                
                
                
                    WILLIE CURTINA MAN
                    
                    WILLIE CURTINA MAN
                    Willie Curtin, George Tobey, and the one "Scotty" stood at
                        the front of Gust Heinmiller's place. Heinmiller's was a
                        squat establishment made of wood, and those who passed the staring doorway
                        caught a sour and malty odour with just a tang of keen spirits. Heinmiller
                        depended somewhat upon the bucket trade. His saloon backed up against a
                        disordered net of railway-tracks, where the trains clanked eternally.
                    The region was one of cinders and water-logged block pavements, sinking back
                        dejectedly into the black mud from which our unexpected Chicago had first
                        arisen. Large furls of smoke unwrapped themselves lazily from the near-by
                        planing-mill and, diluting into a smudge, softly enveloped the whole
                        unlovely neighbourhood.
                    The two-story houses stood in crowded lines. Each had a perilous front
                        stairway for the use of the superimposed family. There was no hint of the
                        earth's green, save here and there a weedy geranium set far out on
                        a sill, as if to coax for sunshine and fresh air.
                    Willie Curtin was twenty, and a full hand at the  mill. George Tobey and the one "Scotty" had been known
                        to work, but never in a cheerful and voluntary mood.
                        "Scotty's" mother kept boarders. Under pretence
                        of buying supplies and doing the heavy work around the house, he found time
                        to stand on Heinmiller's corner. "Scotty" was
                        acknowledged captain of the young men who came to Heinmiller's each
                        evening. The politicians had him on their books as a useful man, and the
                        police hoped to know him more intimately. "Scotty" had a
                        line of small accomplishments which earned for him the admiration of all who
                        stood at the bar. He was given to the singing of sentimental songs and could
                        do very neat steps in the sand. His hat was worn at a careless angle, and in
                        his walk there was a defiant little swagger, of which he was quite
                        unconscious.
                    While the three stood at the corner, the troops of children came from the Von
                        Moltke school. This was the school the three had attended until they learned
                        to read the nickel library. It was a congress of nations. There were reddish
                        little boys with all the pugnacious mischief of Ireland squinting from their
                        eyes. There were docile Swedish tots with tow braids, and little Italian
                        girls of such olive complexion and great dark eyes that dirt and tatter
                        could not dismay their beauty. Then there were plump German young.  ones who skipped instead of walking, and two
                        negro boys, at whom "Scotty" spat, so that they had to
                        jump to escape disaster.
                    The older girls were at the last of the procession. They came locked in
                        trios, and the whole street was awakened by their chatter.
                    "Scotty" moved over to the edge of the sidewalk so that the
                        girls would have to pass between him and the swinging doors that opened into
                        Heinmiller's. He tapped his hat jauntily with a forefinger, put his
                        thumbs into his vest arm-holes, and waited. The girls saw him and suddenly
                        ceased talking. They exchanged swift glances and began to walk more
                        rapidly.
                    "Hello, girls!" he said.
                    They tried to hurry past. He stepped in and seized a girl in the second
                        three. It was Susie Curtin.
                    "Come here, Susie, I want to tell you something," he said,
                        tightening his lips to keep back the laughter.
                    "You let go of me," she cried, pulling and backing away
                        from but he had gripped her forearm and she tugged in vain.
                    "Noon the level, I want to tell you something," he said,
                        and then he gave a long tantalising "Ah-h-h!" as she
                        struck at him awkwardly and girl-fashion, while he dodged the blow by
                        leaning backward.
                    "Let go of me!" she repeated. Her voice broke and  her eyes were swimming with tears of
                        mortification. "You ought to be ashamed of yourself."
                    She broke away and ran headlong among her companions. They closed about her
                        and hurried on, whispering their consolation as they cast frightened glances
                        back at the corner where "Scotty" had halted after making
                        a playful start as if to pursue them.
                    Willie Curtin had stood still while this was happening between
                        "Scotty" and his sister. His hands were clinched in his
                        trousers' pockets and it seemed to him that he did not have the
                        strength to withdraw them.
                    He stood motionless, with a heat rising into his head. The buildings across
                        the street toppled and swung. His heart beat rapidly.
                    "Scotty" gave a peculiar upward jerk to his head and smiled
                        from one side of his mouth.
                    "I like to kid the girls," he said, and shouldered through
                        the swinging doors into Heinmiller's place. George Tobey followed
                        him.
                    Willie leaned against the corner and tried to whistle, so as to reassure
                        himself that he had not been disturbed by the episode. He said to himself
                        that Susie was only a child and "Scotty" had meant it in
                        fun. But the lie contradicted itself, for he knew that he was sick with
                        self-contempt.
                    But what could be have done? Suppose he had interfered.  "Scotty" would have whipped him. In this
                        miserable reflection he found small consolation. He had read paper-covered
                        books and he had seen the weekly melodrama at the Bijou, and he knew that
                        any man who calls himself a man must not stand silent, with his hands in his
                        pockets, while his sister is being bullied and insulted. He remembered that
                        he had tried to grin when "Scotty" laid hold of Susie and
                        pulled her away from the other girls. Perhaps "Scotty"
                        selected her just to prove that he rated Willie as a coward. Willie tapped
                        the corner of the building with his closed fist and thought hard
                        thoughts.
                    He did not speak to Susie of what had happened at the corner. She had not
                        appealed to him for protection when "Scotty" held her by
                        the arm. She did not rebuke him when he came home to supper. She looked at
                        him in a furtive and shamefaced way across the table as if to acknowledge
                        that both of them lived in fear and dread of the only
                        "Scotty." It was her silence and her manner of not
                        expecting him to play the man that wore upon Willie. He knew that he would
                        despise himself until he had fought "Scotty."
                    If Willie had a definite resolution, he did not express itnot even to
                        himself. When he began to work in Larry Bowen's gymnasium, he did
                        not know that he  was preparing to fight
                        "Scotty." He was learning to box because every young
                        fellow should know how to take care of himself.
                    Larry Bowen was a retired professional who gave evening lessons in a loft
                        which he called his "academy." Larry had lost many of his
                        teeth in prairie battles, and one ear, after repeated poundings, had taken
                        on a sort of muffin-shape. Larry had fallen short of championship honours,
                        but no one less than a champion had beaten him down when he was in his
                        prime. He and his advanced pupils received Willie into their grim
                        brotherhood and taught him that pain and bloodshed are the mere zest of
                        manhood. He fought them doggedly and then sat among them, thoughtfully
                        taking instruction. For a half-hour at a time he would send the punching-bag
                        tap-tap-tap against the hard boards. He felt of himself and found new
                        muscles lining themselves.
                    One evening he caught the great Larry unawares and shook him to the heels
                        with a straight left-hander. Larry crouched and came back to fightnot to
                        instruct. They mixed itcounter and cross, give and take, infighting, tearing
                        loose, breathing heavily like maddened animalseach swinging desperately for
                        the knock-out. When they finished, in a struggling embrace, Willie felt the
                        warm blood in his mouth, and  the great Larry
                        regarded his pupil with but one effective eye.
                    "You're comin' on a lot, kid," said
                        Larry, caressing his nose with a gloved hand.
                    This would be scant praise from any one but Larry. Willie knew what it meant.
                        He walked homeward, stretching himself within his sweater and tapping his
                        biceps. The light from Heinmiller's place fell across the sidewalk.
                        From within came the assertive voice of the only "Scotty,"
                        who was talking politics. No doubt "Scotty" had forgotten
                        all about itfor it had been but a trivial incident. His career had been
                        crowded with many such pleasantries. When Willie walked in,
                        "Scotty" gave him a sidewise nod, such as a great
                        personage bestows upon a satellite entering his presence, and he continued
                        his dissertation on men and affairs, as viewed by the precinct-worker.
                        Willie stood back, somewhat at a loss for a definite policy, and yet quietly
                        confident that opportunity is seldom denied the willing soul.
                    A fight, to have any ceremonial dignity, must follow logically upon a
                        quarrel. Therefore, when "Scotty" declared that a certain
                        "Jimmy," of ward fame, was a prince and the very essence
                        of gentility, Willie had to say that "Jimmy" was a cheap
                        thief and a lowly counterfeit.
                    
                    Thereupon "Scotty" unhesitatingly used violent language and
                        the provocation existed. Willie hit "Scotty" twice before
                        "Scotty" knew that he was to be hit at all. Heinmiller,
                        the man of peace, shouted from behind the bar, counselling arbitration.
                        "Scotty" aroused himself and bore down upon the boy. He
                        ran straight into a rigid left arm, but he caught hold of Willie's
                        coat and tried to pull the battle down to the floora tactic of the bar-room
                        fighter. Willie gave a twist and wriggled out of the coat. He ran for a
                        shelter behind the pool-table. "Scotty"followed, and the
                        boy suddenly turned, meeting the big fellow right and left.
                        "Scotty" fell backward and Willie pounced upon him.
                    When the patrolman rushed in and compelled Willie to relax his hold upon the
                        throat of the only "Scotty," his judicial mind did not
                        classify the battle as one tinged with the sweetness of chivalry or touched
                        by the glamour of romance. It was the inevitable, the nightly
                        "saloon scrap."
                    The Curtin family was deeply humiliated and hurt in reputation. John Curtin
                        had to go out at night to find a bondsman. Willie was released from the
                        station at midnight. His mother and Susie were waiting for himindignant,
                        horrified.
                    "To think that army son of mine'd turn out to be  a saloon rowdy," said Mrs. Curtin.
                        "Locked upthe same as a thief. I'll be ashamed to meet
                        Father Carney."
                    "That's all right," said Willie.
                    "It serves you right for always running around with those toughs and
                        trying to be a regular prize-fighter," added Susie.
                    "That's all right," said Willie.
                
                
                
                    OPENING OF NAVIGATION
                    
                    OPENING OF NAVIGATION
                    Two lake-faring men went hard at it with scrubs to clean the wooden effigy of
                        Ceres, perched above the wheel-house of the Dudley Brown.
                    Ceres sat in a very stiff and conventional attitude, gazing directly up
                        stream. She had a black spot painted in each eye, and the effect was to give
                        her the appearance of staring with fascinated interest.
                    Could Ceres have seen from out those wooden eyes she would have learned that
                        the big warehouses were dozing in warm sunshine. Along the docks which
                        skirted them ran a most uneasy movement of men. Painters, in white suits,
                        were suspended, like spiders, along the sides of the gaunt iron propellers
                        and were covering the stains and rust of a winter's harbouring.
                        Decks were being scrubbed down and rigging set taut and serviceable. In
                        fact, Ceres would have known that the season was arousing itself.
                    Ceres wore a loose garment of fiery red. Her arms and face were white and
                        rather scaly from repeated applications of white-lead. The sheaf which she
                        carried in her left arm was done in brilliant yellow, and  altogether she was a startling figure as she
                        sat triumphant above the wheel-house, where the crowds passing on the bridge
                        might look up and admire.
                    Ceres held this place of distinction because the Dudley Brown was a
                        grain-carrying steamer plying between Chicago and Buffalo, and Ceres is the
                        goddess of corn and tillage. The mariner could not pay a prettier compliment
                        to the husbandman. Such courtesy was all the more graceful because one does
                        not find many allusions to mythology along the Chicago river.
                    The two men who had climbed to the tin roof of the wheel-house to cleanse the
                        goddess were sailorsnot the Jack Tars of youthful imagination, but sailors
                        who had been reduced to deck-hands through the changes in navigation and the
                        gradual supremacy of steam.
                    Dan Griswold had been a real Captain Marryat sailor once upon a time, and had
                        all the tattoo marks to prove it. He could splice and knot and reef, and he
                        knew the names of all the sails and sheets, but this knowledge counted for
                        nothing on the Dudley Brown. In the opinion of Dan Griswold it was not a
                        vessel at alljust a huge grain-bin crowded along by a screw.
                    The sailor having lost his station, the pride and the clothes had gone with
                        it. These two men scrubbing at the goddess were in blue flannel shirts and a
                        cheap  quality of factory-made, farmer
                        clothes. Dan Griswold wore a crumpled cap, and the younger man had a derby
                        hat, bleached by the sun.
                    The younger man's name was Larry Pearson.
                    "I think she's clean, Larry," said Dan, passing
                        the bucket and brush back to his companion and lowering himself, with a few
                        grunts and sighs, from the roof of the wheel-house.
                    "She looks all right," said Larry.
                    "We've got to keep her looking all right,"
                        remarked Dan, as he picked up his bucket and walked aft.
                        "She's the only woman we'll have aboardand
                        it's a good thing she can't hear what's
                        bein' said."
                    Three men were perched along the rail on the sunny side of the boat warming
                        their backs. One of them, Tony Baldwin, was reading aloud from a
                        newspaper.
                    He stopped reading as Dan came up and said, "Here, Dan, you want to
                        hear this."
                    "What is it?"
                    "They say the ice is out o' the straits, and they can get
                        through now without a scratch. As soon as they can get insurance
                        everything'll start. It's goin' to be the
                        earliest season we've had for years."
                    "I'll be glad o' that," growled Larry,
                        who had followed along. "It can't open any too soon for
                        me."
                    "If I was on a real boat I wouldn't care, either,"
                             said Dan. "I'm
                        forgettin' what a sail looks like, and I never did like the smell
                        o' rain-water. That's all that thing is"with a
                        wave of the hand toward the lake"a big puddle o'
                        rain-water."
                    "I know why Dan ain't so anxious to get away this
                        spring," said Tony, with a wink at the others.
                        "He's stuck on the missus. Why don't you marry
                        her, Dan, and settle down?"
                    "This ain't no time or place to talk about a
                        lady," said Dan. "Leastways, not for low roustabouts to
                        talk about her."
                    "Who's a low roustabout?" asked Tony, as he
                        straightened his legs and came down to the deck. "Who's a
                        low roustabout?"
                    "Well, who is a low roustabout if you
                        ain't?"
                    "I'm goin' to make you swaller that"
                    "Come and do it."
                    They closed in, pawing at each other. They grappled and did a slow, heaving
                        waltz together, and then went to the deck with Dan on top.
                    They were holding on, tugging and making inarticulate noises when the mate
                        came. He was a very young man with a straw-coloured moustache.
                    "Here! Let go! Get up and out of here," he commanded,
                        prodding the man underneath with his foot.
                    Dan untangled himself and came to his feet. He 
                        was breathing heavily and one eye had a bruised and watery appearance. Tony
                        had been defeated by the rules of battle, but he bore no marks and was
                        anxious to resume the fight.
                    "Go onget off the boat, both of you," said the mate.
                        "I don't want you around," and he gave his
                        opinion of the two in language which may be imagined but cannot be
                        quoted.
                    Dan jumped to the dock and went along the plank-driveway between the
                        cold-storage warehouse and a freight-depot. One whole side of his face
                        burned as if it had been chafed with a piece of sail-cloth. He wondered if
                        the eye would show any colour. If so, he did not want to go to Mrs.
                        Gunderson's, for he had told Mrs. Gunderson that he was not a
                        fighting man. She would not have fighting or drinking men in the house, and
                        that is why the discriminating captains and mates had come to board with
                        her.
                    Dan had lived at the house for two winters, and during the second winter,
                        because he could not be idle and because Mrs. Gunderson came to have a
                        growing confidence in him, he was a sort of business manager for the
                        establishment. He brought in reliable customers, kept track of the accounts,
                        did much of the purchasing, and advised Mrs. Gunderson in all emergencies.
                        For the first time in his wandering career  he
                        had found a taste of real domestic life, for one can never know domestic
                        life unless one feels a proprietary interest.
                    Dan had outlived the sailors' period of romance. He had tired of the
                        life on the grain steamers, but he had never dreamed that he could make a
                        living or be useful in any way except on board a vessel. Here he was,
                        preparing to begin another season of drudgery on the lakes, but he hated the
                        prospect as he had never hated it before, and he began to realise that there
                        was more of dignity and comfort in managing a three-decked boarding-house
                        than in being ordered about as a common sailor. It was out of the bitterness
                        of his daily reflections that he had resented Tony's playful
                        remark.
                    Mrs. Gunderson met him as he entered the door-way.
                    "There you are, Mr. Griswold!" she exclaimed.
                        "I've been lookin' for you. Mr. Cleary wants his
                        bill. Lord bless us, man! What's the matter with your
                        eye?"
                    It may be remarked that although Mrs. Gunderson's husband (lost with
                        a lumber schooner) had been a Norwegian, she was distinctly Scotch and
                        Irish.
                    "I got into trouble with a fellow on the boat. It's all
                        right. I'll make out Cleary's bill."
                    
                    He went into his own room to work at the "books," and
                        presently Mrs. Gunderson came in with a piece of steak for his eye, which he
                        refused with gentle scorn.
                    "Mr. Cleary says the straits are open," remarked Mrs.
                        Gunderson, as she admired Dan's work with the figures.
                    "Yes, they'll be gettin' away most any day
                        now."
                    "Goodness only knows what we'll do when you're
                        gone, Mr. Griswold. I've come to depend on you so muchwith twenty
                        men in the house."
                    "I hate to go myself, Mrs. Gunderson."
                    "Why can't you stay? I can pay you a little something, or
                        annyway your boardwhich you've been wantin' to pay. I need
                        a manI do that."
                    "So the boys on the boat say."
                    "They do?"
                    "Yes; I had my fight with a fellow that asked me why didn't
                        I marry you."
                    "Bless you, the two girls have been askin' that for a
                        month."
                    "Cleary owes you eleven fifty," said Dan, handing the bill
                        to her. As she received it, she gave him a glance which he seemed to
                        understand.
                    It was three days later that the mate of the Dudley Brown met Dan on the
                        State Street bridge. Dan  was smoking a cigar
                        and surveying the river with the air of one who owned the stream and all
                        abutting property.
                    "Look here, Dan, why haven't you been around?" he
                        demanded. "I wouldn't be surprised if navigation opens by
                        Saturday."
                    "Navigation can open and be damned," replied Dan.
                        "I've quit the water."
                
                
                
                    NO CLARENCE
                    
                    NO CLARENCE
                    After the bubbling crowd from the 1.40 train had spouted through the main
                        exit and gone its various ways, "Connie" found himself
                        saying: "Cab, sir? Hi! cab, sir? Here you are!" to no one
                        in particular except a fatigued officer of the law.
                    The station dozed again. Usually it was dozing or else roaring, with the
                        alternations running on schedule time. Now it had simmered down for fifteen
                        minutes of comparative quiet.
                    "Connie" saw no prospect of immediate employment. It is
                        believed that he stared after the last stragglers and remarked to the
                        policeman that they were "mugs." A "mug"
                        is a person who does not ride in a hansom cab.
                    Connie's brown derby hat was rather too high and cocoa-nut shaped to
                        be accepted as the vogue, and his clothes had certain slashing curves and a
                        tightness about the legs to prove that the wearer had been for many years
                        among the tall fronts and lampposts. The four-in-hand cravat was a burning
                        red and rested against a checked bosom of a kind which,  through some mysterious adaptability, is always chosen by men
                        who handle horses.
                    If you ever come to know "Connie" well you will discover
                        his good points. A single encounter might serve to emphasise his mercenary
                        qualities and leave his virtues unsummoned from within. He has been known to
                        charge an unprotected woman three dollars for a single haul from the Rock
                        Island station to the Auditorium, taking her by way of Desplaines Street and
                        Chicago Avenue.
                    It is certain that his judgment of distances is not always accurate, as, for
                        instance, his estimate that it is two miles from the Northwestern station to
                        Rush Street, by the short cut, whereas the city map makes it five
                        blocks.
                    A man may have a grasp for money and still be tender-hearted, as witness the
                        well-known philanthropists.
                    "Connie" would lean against a wheel and almost sniffle when
                        "Big Burton," a coup$eA driver, sung his "sister
                        songs" in a suppressed tenor, with many effective dwells.
                    He was over-ready to fight for a friend, and he was good to his horse. These
                        two points of merit always counted heavily in his favour.
                    The policeman had lounged away toward a corner 
                        fruit-stand, and "Connie" had settled back against license
                        number 42871 for a wait and a whistle, when the girl from the country came
                        to the doorway and shaded her eyes for a look up the sunny street.
                    "Cab, lady?" asked "Connie."
                    She turned and gave him a candid smile.
                    "No, I don't want no hack. I'm waitin' to
                        meet a gentleman friend."
                    "Has he broke a date?"
                    She made no reply, but stood just outside the doorway and watched the street
                        expectantly, once or twice leaning back to see the top of the fourteen-story
                        building only a block away.
                    "Connie" studied her, for lack of other entertainment. He
                        inspected her from the dusty button shoes up to the one-winged hat. She had
                        a boyish, sun-coloured face, and her hands were large and strong. The blue
                        dress, black lace trimmings, plaid ribbon, and a suspended Japanese fan made
                        such a conflict of colours that even "Connie" felt
                        disturbed and shook his head slowly, the corners of his mouth pulled
                        downward and two small wrinkles of merriment showing between his
                        eyebrows.
                    "The party ain't showed up yet, eh?" he asked.
                    "No, he ain't, an' I don't know what to
                        make of it."
                    
                    "Who wuz it you was expectin', the real boy?"
                    "It's the gentleman I'm engaged toMr.
                        Blivins."
                    "Come again."
                    "What did you say?"
                    "Give me that name again. What's the party's
                        name?"
                    "BlivinsClarence Blivins. I ain't seen him for about a
                        month, but I wrote to him yesterday an' told him I was
                        comin'."
                    "He lives here in Chicago, does he?"
                    "Yes, sir, he lives here and he's well off, too. I got
                        acquainted with him when they had the rally over at Ransom. He had a stand
                        there."
                    "What kind of a stand?"
                    "What kind d'you s'pose? A place where they sell
                        lemonade an' peanuts an' pop an' so
                        on."
                    "Oh!"
                    "I got acquainted with him there an' he proposed to me,
                        an' I'm up here now to marry himbut I don't
                        s'pose I need to rattle on to you about it."
                    "Sure, lady, go ahead," said "Connie," in
                        a confiding tone, intended to encourage her. "If you've
                        got his address I may be able to locate him for you. Where does he
                        live?"
                    "I've got it on a card somewheres. He wrote it down for
                        me."
                    
                    She went into a low pocket of the blue dress and brought out a very small
                        purse, fastening with a snap, from which she took a crumpled piece of
                        paper.
                    "Connie" unfolded the paper and read, written in
                        pencil:
                    CLARENCE BLIVINS,
                         Lincoln Park, Chicago.
                    "He give you this, did he?" asked
                        "Connie."
                    "Yes, sir."
                    "Lincoln Park! Talk about stringin'! Where did you meet
                        this guy?"
                    "Over at Ransom, when they had the rally."
                    "Where's Ransom?"
                    "Do you know where Kankakee is?"
                    "Well, I've heard of it."
                    "Well, it ain't on the same road as Kankakee, but
                        it's aboutI don't knowtwenty-three or twenty-four miles, I
                        should judge"
                    "All right, we'll let it go at that. You say you met him at
                        a rally?"
                    "Yes, sir, I stopped at his stand to buy some popcorn an'
                        we got to talkin', an' then he asked me to take a ride in
                        the swing with him. We got to talkin',  an' he took me right from the start becuz he wuz so pleasant
                        spoken."
                    "I'll bet he was a nice man. What did he tell
                        you?"
                    "Well, I told him I'd always wanted to git to Chicago becuz
                        I'd only been here once when they had an excursion to the
                        World's Fair, an' then I didn't get to see half,
                        so he says, 'I live in Chicago an' I'm purty well
                        fixed an' I want to git married.' He told me he owned a
                        store here an' could give me a home an' I
                        wouldn't have to work the way I did in the country. I told him I
                        wouldn't ask no other woman to look after my house, so he said I
                        could do part of the work if I felt like it, but he expected to have a good
                        hired girl to help me. He said we could settle that after I got here. We had
                        quite a long talk about one thing an' another. makin'
                        arrangements. He give me his name an' where he lived, an'
                        said when I wuz ready to come to just up an' let him know. I wrote
                        to him a couple o' days ago that I was comin', but I guess
                        he didn't git the letter. Mebbe he's off some-wheres with
                        his stand."
                    "I wouldn't be a bit surprised. What are you goin'
                        to dowait for him?"
                    "I don't hardly know what I'd better do. I
                        don't s'pose I could find the place alone."
                    
                    "I think I can find it for you. You get in the cab an'
                        I'll drive you over that way."
                    "How much would it come to?"
                    "Oh, I'll make it reasonable. How much money you got with
                        you?"
                    "I've got four dollars an' a quarter here. I spent
                        some on the train."
                    "You'd better let me carry it for you. It ain't
                        safe for a lady to be carryin' money around these
                        depots."
                    She gave him the purse. He looked at it and then at her, in sheer
                        astonishment, but he stiffened his face to keep from laughing.
                    "You are certainly all right," he said. "How did
                        you fix it to get away from home?"
                    "I told 'em I wuz goin' to ride in with Bashford
                        Simmons to see the Moffett girls, but I kept on an' rode into
                        town."
                    "They didn't know anything about Clarence,
                        eh?"
                    "No, I ain't told any one. He told me not to."
                    "Well, well! Climb in."
                    "Connie" took hold of her arm and assisted her into the
                        hansom. Then he swung up to his little seat behind. As the horse came around
                        and started away at a pounding jog-trot, "Connie" shook
                        his head  slowly and said to himself,
                        "Well, I've heard of this kind, but I wouldn't
                        'a' believed it."
                    He looked down through the hole at the dusty hat, which was in a constant
                        rotary motion, for she was trying to look at both sides of the street at the
                        same time.
                    Presently the cab turned from State Street west into Harrison Street,
                        following a path familiar to both horse and driver. It was then
                        "Connie" began to realise that even if he gave the
                        prospective Mrs. Blivins four dollars' worth of honest cab-riding
                        he would have to set her down somewhere at last. He knew of many places into
                        which she would go as unhesitatingly as she had gone into the swing with the
                        missing Clarence.
                    For the purposes of a story, it might be advisable to say that "a
                        struggle was taking place" in "Connie's"
                        mind. "Struggle" is hardly the word, for he was chuckling
                        most of the time and dimly wondering why the peanut-man had chosen such an
                        unusual and profitless lie.
                    Occasionally he looked down at her and sighed with wonderment. It would make
                        a good story to tell to "Big Burton."
                    "Yes, and it's lucky 'Big Burton'
                        wuzn't pulled up there, instead of me," he said to
                        himself.
                    
                    He drove on without stopping and headed east toward State Street.
                    "She's too easy," he said. "If she put up
                        a fly front I might buther! Back to the tall
                        grass!"
                    Another turn and they were headed for the station.
                    "What's the matter?" she asked, wonderingly, as
                        "Connie" came down from the high seat.
                    "Say, Ethel, you take this money an' hide it inside your
                        cloze somewheres. I'll show you a nice place to set until the train
                        comes, an' if you move, that big copper'll run you
                        in."
                    "What have I done?" she asked, staring at him,
                        pop-eyed.
                    "Shhh! You've got one chance in a thousand of
                        gettin' out of town alive, and I'm your friend.
                        I'll show you where to get your ticket an' where your
                        train backs in, and I want you to be the first one aboard. Don't
                        buy nothin' of the train butcher an' don't speak
                        to no brakesmen."
                    "Don't you s'pose Mr. Blivins"
                    "Lady, I hate to tell you, but I must. Your friend, Mr. Blivins,
                        sold Lincoln Park and moved out to the four-mile crib a week ago,
                        an' besides, he's married."
                    "Yes, but looky here"
                    "That'll do for you. Not another word."
                    And they went in to buy the return ticket.
                
                
                
                    WHEN FATHER MEETS FATHER
                    
                    WHEN FATHER MEETS FATHER
                    An "L" train had come to a grinding stop at the second
                        station of the inbound trip. The big man came along the aisle until he saw a
                        seat with only one man in it. His Chicago training asserted itself. He
                        hurriedly pre-empted the place. The man already in the seat moved over
                        toward the window. The big man said "Thanks," secretively,
                        and leaned back to waste seventeen minutes of this precious life.
                    In the seat opposite, and facing them, were two women and one baby.
                    The younger woman held the baby, and the young woman's mother
                        superintended. Once she said: "I think you'd better keep
                        your hand on his back, Ida. The car jolts so."
                    Soon after she advised strongly against allowing "him" to
                        chew the newspaper, advancing a theory that printer's ink is not a
                        wholesome food for infants.
                    Ida, who was all eyes for "him," followed directions
                        placidly, and three times she addressed him as "precious
                        rascal," which doubtful compliment was utterly ignored.
                    
                    The baby was a round-faced, pinkish creature with big, blue eyes. As babies
                        go, doubtless he was a very fine specimen. When he opened his mouth to crow,
                        he showed two unimportant teeth. His gown was a scramble of lace, and the
                        bonnet was fastened under his plump chin with an enormous bow.
                    He pawed the air with two milk-white fists until his mother turned him around
                        squarely. Then he sat very still and studied the two men on the other
                        seat.
                    The big man with the black moustache wore a blue suit, is broad straw hat,
                        and a striped n$eAglig$eA shirt with a loose cravat falling down the front
                        of it.
                    His neighbour was a smaller and rather pale man, with a short patch of
                        side-whiskers in front of each ear. His coat was of black silk, the cravat
                        was of white lawn, and the rim of his straw hat was much narrower than that
                        of his neighbour's.
                    The baby stared at one and then at the other. The pale man stood the scrutiny
                        for a time and then began to smile. The baby smiled in return, and the pale
                        man winked and shook his head in a threatening way, causing the infant to
                        become serious again and turn to the big man.
                    The latter pointed his finger and, using his thumb as a trigger, discharged a
                        loud cluck, which so delighted the child that it waved its arms and
                        gurgled.
                    
                    Once more he clucked and this time the demonstration of delight was so
                        earnest that the mother looked out of the window in pleased embarrassment
                        and the grandmother smiled and said: "Oh, you bad boy,
                        you're not afraid of any one."
                    The big man put his forefinger against the baby's ribs and said:
                        "Kitchey, kitchey, kitchey, kitchey, kitchey."
                    Leaning with his elbows on his knees the pale man watched this performance
                        with unconcealed delight, especially when the baby laughed so hard that it
                        came very near rolling off its mother's lap.
                    "Boy or girl?" he asked.
                    "Boy, and a bad boy, too; now, aren't you?" the
                        mother replied, straightening the bonnet, which had been pulled down over
                        one eye during the frolic. She was blushing proudly.
                    "No, he ain't a bad boy; no, siree," said the big
                        man. "He's a little corker; that's what he is.
                        Ain't you a little corker?" He advanced his forefinger
                        toward the ribs, and the "corker" went into a kicking fit
                        over the mere prospect of being tickled again.
                    "What's his name?" asked the pale man.
                    "Tell the gentleman your name," said the grandmother,
                        shaking him by the arm. But he could see  no
                        one except the big man, from whom he was momentarily expecting another
                        attack.
                    "His name's Walter, but all he can say now is
                        'Wah'; you see, he's only a little over a year
                        old. How old is he, Ida?"
                    "Thirteen months and ten days," was the prompt reply.
                    "You seem to have made a deep impression on him," said the
                        pale man to his neighbour.
                    "Would he come to me, do you s'pose?" asked the
                        big man of the grandmother.
                    "Bless you, he isn't afraid of any one."
                    "Let's see? Come, Walter, come to me; come
                        on."
                    While entreating, the big man held out his hands, and the baby, with his
                        round face puckered into a laugh, reached for the big man.
                    "Just look at that," said the baby's mother, with
                        a little gasp.
                    The big man received Walter and danced him in the air. He allowed the baby to
                        claw his moustache, and when he said "Ouch," the pale man
                        laughed aloud, and the whole car, which was watching the performance,
                        smiled.
                    "Oh, you bad boy," said the grandmother, recovering Walter
                        and straightening the bonnet once more. "Ida, the next stop is
                        Thirty-first."
                    
                    That was where they alighted. The baby looked back over the mother's
                        shoulder and laughed at the two men, who grinned after him like two foolish
                        boys.
                    Two eager men with newspapers fought their way into the vacant seat, and the
                        friends of the baby found themselves depending upon each other for
                        entertainment.
                    "Nice baby?" said the pale man.
                    "A dandy. I like 'em about that age."
                    "I have one of about that sizea little girl. She'll be
                        fifteen months old on the 17th. She's just beginning to toddle
                        around and we have to watch her all the time."
                    "That's right."
                    "The other day my wife left her alone for a little while, and when
                        she came back there was that little tike clear up on the sideboard trying to
                        get the cork out of the vinegar-bottle."
                    "You don't say so?"
                    "Yes, sir; she had pushed a chair over to the side-board and climbed
                        up."
                    "I've got a boy that's goin' to be a
                        terror," said the big man. "He's only nine months
                        old, but he's big for his age, and I guess he knows more than most
                        children do at a year old. The other morning about six o'clock I
                        was woke up by something poundin' me, and what  do you think? That little cuss had squirmed around in bed and
                        had both of his feet in my face kicking away to beat the cars."
                    "Well, well!"
                    "I woke up my wife and let her see it. He knew what he was
                        doin', all right, for when he saw me lookin' at him, he
                        commenced to laugh. I'll tell you they begin to learn things early
                        enough."
                    "They do, for a fact. Now, my second girl isn't five years
                        old, and, of course, we've never sent her to school, but she knows
                        her letters and can read some; just picked it up, you know. My wife and I
                        thought we wouldn't attempt any instruction until she was six, but
                        she simply went ahead and learned anyway."
                    "I'll bet you! That's the way they do. But say,
                        you ought to see that oldest boy of mine. He's twelve years old and
                        his sister is goin' on nine. They're down in the country
                        now visitin' their grandmother, and I want to tell you, pardner,
                        they think she's the greatest woman in the world. My
                        wife's folks have a fine place, with an orchard and a crick and
                        horses to ride. Why, when they get down there they just own the farm. Turn
                        it upside down."
                    "I dare say they do," said the pale man, smiling and
                        nodding his head as if he remembered something of the kind himself.
                    
                    "Yes, you see their grandmother humours them and gives them all they
                        want to eat, and fusses over them. She thinks more of them children than she
                        does of me, but that's all right. My wife was the only child. And
                        their grandfather! He'd bring a team in out of the field any time
                        if the kids wanted to ride."
                    "I'm sorry I can't let my children get out into
                        the country more than they do. But I send them to the park every pleasant
                        afternoon, and, of course, they enjoy that."
                    "I'll bet they do, but it's better, of course, if
                        they get clear out into the country, where they can peel their shoes and
                        stockings and raiseCain. I wish your children could get out there with mine.
                        They'd have great times together."
                    "They would, indeed; I know mine would enjoy it.
                        Is your little boy in good health?"
                    "Is he? He's a buster. Never cries except when the colic
                        gets in its work. One day about a month ago the nurse set him in a chair and
                        he fell off right on his head. My wife come screamin',
                        thinkin', of course, that he was croaked, sure enough. That boy
                        simply rolled over and started in playin' with his rattle
                        againnever even whimpered."
                    "This seems to be Congress Street," said the pale man,
                        looking out of the window, and arising.
                    
                    "Yes, this is where I get off, too."
                    "Well, I'm very glad to have met you," and he held
                        out his hand.
                    "The same to you," said the big man, giving a hearty
                        grasp.
                    "I'll give you my card. Have you one?"
                    "I think I have, somewheres."
                    The pale man opened a leather case, and the other searched in his upper
                        vest-pockets.
                    They exchanged cards while crowding to the platform with the others. Outside,
                        after they had separated, each looked at his card. One read:
                    REV. MCLEOD HATLEY,
                         Essex Presbyterian Church. Residence, 4690 Calumet Avenue.
                    The other:
                    >THE SMILAX BUFFET.
                         "Billy" Alexander, Proprietor, 82 Clark
                        Street. Imported and Domestic Wines, Liquors and Cigars. Remember
                        the Number.
                    The Home of the "Looloo" Cocktail.
                
                THE END.
            
        
        
            
            
                By S. K. CrockettAuthor of "The Banner of Blue,"
                    "The Firebrand"
                FLOWER O' THE CORN
                MR. CROCKETT has made an interesting novel of romance and
                    intrigue. He has chosen a little town in the south of France, high up in the
                    mountains, as the scene for his drama. The plot deals with a group of Calvinists
                    who have been driven from Belgium into southern France, where they are besieged
                    in their mountain fastness by the French troops. A number of historical
                    characters figure in the book, among them Madame de Maintenon.
                "Flower o' the Corn" is probably one of Mr.
                    Crockett's most delightful women characters. The book is notable for
                    its fine descriptions.
                Cloth, 12mo $1.50
                McClure, Phillips & Co.
            
            
            
                By Edward W. Townsend Author of "Chimmie Fadden,"
                    "Days Like These," etc.
                LEES AND LEAVEN
                NO novel of New York City has ever portrayed so faithfully or
                    so vividly our new world Gothamthe seething, rushing New York of to-day, to
                    which all the world looks with such curious interest. Mr. Townsend, gives us not
                    a picture, but the bustling, nerve-racking pageant itself. The titan struggles
                    in the world of finance, the huge hoaxes in sensational news-paperdom, the gay
                    life of the theatre, opera, and restaurant, and then the calmer and comforting
                    domestic scenes of wholesome living, pass, as actualities, before our very eves.
                    In this turbulent maelstrom of ambition, he finds room for love and romance
                    also.
                There is a bountiful array of characters, admirably drawn, and especially
                    delightful are the two emotional and excitable lovers, young Bannister and
                    Gertrude Carr. The book is unlike Mr. Towusend's "Chimmie
                    Fadden" in everything but its intimate knowledge of New York life.
                Cloth, 12mo $1.50
                McClure, Phillips & Co.
            
            
            
                By Stewart Edward White
                
                    CONJUROR'S HOUSE
                    THOSE who have come to know and to love the great forests
                        of the Northwest through Mr. White's splendid epic of lumbering
                        life, "The Blazed Trail," will be delighted to follow the
                        author still further into the wooded wilderness. Those who admire strong,
                        daring, and courageous men, with strength and daring in love as well as in
                        other things, will find in Ned Trent a brave yet tender character of almost
                        lawless freedom they will not soon forget. The story is written in Mr.
                        White's characteristic vein. It deals with the old Hudson Bay
                        Company, which holds power even to the death of free-traders who trespass
                        upon its ground. Ned Trent is such a free-trader, and how he courts and wins
                        gentle Virginia, the daughter of the Commander of the Post, defying the old
                        man at the risk of his life, is the theme which makes, in Mr.
                        White's hands, an exciting and yet Charmingly sweet story.
                        $1.50
                
                
                    THE BLAZED TRAIL
                    AN EPIC of the lumbering life in the great forests of the
                        Northwest. A book of remarkable freshness and strength.
                    "'The Blazed Trail' is, in fact, a delightful
                        compound of passion and emotion, of effort and result, and is, in its
                        entirety and detail, a first-rate novel."New York
                            Sun.
                    
                    
                        Eleven Editions in eleven months. $1.50
                    McClure, Phillips & Co.
                
            
            
            
                By James Weber Linn Author of "The Second
                    Generation"
                THE CHAMELEON
                THE author uses as his theme that trait in human nature which
                    leads men and women to seek always the lime light, to endeavor always to he
                    protagonists even at the expense of the truth. His book is a study of that most
                    interesting and pertinent type in modern life, the sentimentalist, the man whose
                    emotions are interesting to him merely as a matter of experience, and shows the
                    development of such a character when he comes into contact with normal people.
                    The action of the novel passes in a college town and the hero comes to his grief
                    through his attempt to increase his appearance of importance by betraying a
                    secret. His love for his wife is, however, his saving sincerity and through it
                    the story is brought to a happy ending.
                Cloth, 12mo $1.50
                McClure, Phillips & Co.
            
            
            
                By F. L. Nason Author of "To the End of the
                    Trail"
                THE BLUE GOOSE
                THE life of the miner, with its hours of wild living above
                    ground, the dominating influence of the greed for gold, and the reckless
                    gambling spirit that is its very basis offers grateful material to the teller of
                    stories. Mr. Nason has taken full advantage of the opportunity and of his
                    intimate knowledge. He has written a tale of cunning and villany thwarted by
                    dogged honesty, in which a mine superintendent is in conflict with his thieving
                    and vicious employees. The sweetness and charm of an unspoiled, winsome girl
                    brighten the story. To her steadfast, romantic love for the superintendent is
                    due his final triumph.
                Cloth, 12mo $1.50
                McClure, Phillips & Co.
            
            
            
                By Joseph Conrad Author of "Lord Jim"
                YOUTH
                THIS book is the success of the season in London. Mr. Conrad
                    has at last made the hit that all who have watched his earlier work have
                    expected. Mr. Alden, in writing to the New York Times Saturday
                        Review himself, says, speaking of "Youth," the first
                    of the three short novels of which make the volume. "That one story is
                    sufficient to place him with the foremost writers of fiction in any
                    language," and reports further that he has "not heard one
                    dissenting voice in regard to the book, but the praise that it has received is
                    unanimous, and the different critics rival one another in their efforts to
                    express their admiration for it." The book's own merit, as a
                    set of stirring narratives given with the most telling art, will speedily
                    justify this praise to any reader.
                The titles of the other two tales are "Heart of Darkness" and
                    "The End of the Tether." The subject of
                    "Youth" is the sea and a shipwreck. The second story tells of
                    an exploration by land with a side probing in the inner recesses of spiritual
                    darkness; while the third, returning to the sea, is the portrayal of a noble old
                    captain, who is one of the finest characterizations of modern fiction.
                Cloth, 12mo, $1.50
                McClure, Phillips & Co.
            
            
            
                By Pauline B. Mackie Author of "The
                    Washingtonians"
                THE VOICE IN THE DESERT
                THIS is a story of subtle attractions and repulsions between
                    men and women; of deep temperamental conflicts, accentuated and made dramatic by
                    the tense atmosphere of the Arizona desert. The action of the story passes in a
                    little Spanish mission town, where the hero, Lispenard, is settled as an
                    Episcopal clergyman, with his wife Adele and their two children. The influence
                    of the spirit of the desert is a leading factor in the story. Upon Lispenard the
                    desert exerts a strange fascination, while upon his wife it has an opposite
                    effect and antagonizes her. As their natures develop under the spell of their
                    environment, they drift apart and the situation is complicated by the influence
                    upon Lispenard of a second woman who seems to typify the spirit of the desert
                    itself. The spiritual situation is delicately suggested and all is done with a
                    rare and true feeling for human nature.
                Cloth, 12mo. $1.50
                McClure, Phillips & Co.
            
            
            
                By Arthur Stanwood Pier Author of "The
                    Pedagogues"
                THE TRIUMPH
                THE TRIUMPH has fire and pathos and romance and exhilarating
                    humor. It is a capital story that will keep a reader's interest from
                    the first appearance of its hero, the young doctor Neal Robeson, to his final
                    triumphhis triumph over himself and over the lawless, turbulent oil-drillers,
                    his success in his profession and in his love affair. It displays a delightful
                    appreciation of the essential points of typical American characters, a happy
                    outlook on everyday life, a vigorous story-telling ability working in material
                    that is thrilling in interest, in a setting that is picturesque and unusual. The
                    action takes place in a little western Pennsylvania village at the time of the
                    oil fever, and a better situation can scarcely he found. Mr. Pier's
                    account of the fight between the outraged villagers and the oil-drillers around
                    a roaring, blazing gas well is a masterpiece of story telling.
                
                    Illustrations by W. D. Stevens
                
                Cloth 12mo $1.50
                McClure, Phillips & Co.
            
        
    
