
     ----CITATION---- 
        Nicholson, Meredith, 1866-1947. Otherwise Phyllis: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2415
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
            
            
                THE INDIANA UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
                Presented by Meredith Nicholson
            
            
            
            
            
            
                By Meredith Nicholson
                
                    OTHERWISE PHYLLIS. With frontispiece in color.
                    THE PROVINCIAL AMERICAN AND OTHER PAPERS.
                    A HOOSIER CHRONICLE. With illustrations.
                    THE SIEGE OF THE SEVEN SUITORS. With illustrations.
                
                HOUGHTON MIFFLIN COMPANYBOSTON AND NEW YORK
            
            
            
                OTHERWISE PHYLLIS
                
            
            
            
            
            
                
                    PHYLLIS
                
                
            
            
            
                
                    OTHERWISE PHYLLIS
                
                BY
                    MEREDITH NICHOLSON
                
                    BOSTON AND NEW YORK
                    HOUGHTON MIFFLIN COMPANYThe Riverside Press
                        Cambridge
                    1913
                
            
            
            
                COPYRIGHT, 1913, BY MEREDITH NICHOLSON ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
                
                    Published September 1913
            
            
            
                TO ALBERT B. ANDERSON
                A CITIZEN OF THE HOOSIER COMMONWEALTH WHOSE ATTAINMENTS AS LAWYER AND
                    JUDGE HAVE ADDED TO THE FAME OF MONTGOMERY THIS BOOK IS INSCRIBED
                    WITH SINCERE REGARD AND ADMIRATION
            
            
            
            
                CONTENTS
                
                    I. THE KIRKWOODS BREAK CAMP
                        1
                        
                    II. THE MONTGOMERYS OF MONTGOMERY
                        14
                        
                    III. 98 BUCKEYE LANE
                        34
                        
                    IV. A TRANSACTION IN APPLES
                        51
                        
                    V. THE OTHERWISENESS OF PHYLLIS
                        65
                        
                    VI. THE SMOKING-OUT
                            OF AMZI
                        78
                        
                    VII. GHOSTS SEE THE LIGHT AGAIN
                        91
                        
                    VIII. LISTENING HILL
                        104
                        
                    IX. ON AN ORCHARD SLOPE
                        113
                        
                    X. PHIL'S PARTY
                        123
                        
                    XI. BROTHERS
                        144
                        
                    XII. NAN BARTLETT'S DECISION
                        158
                        
                    XIII. THE BEST INTERESTS OF MONTGOMERY
                        168
                        
                    XIV. TURKEY RUN
                        182
                        
                    XV. LOIS
                        201
                        
                    XVI. MERRY CHRISTMAS
                        217
                        
                    XVII. PHIL'S PERPLEXITIES
                        241
                        
                    XVIII. AMZI IS FLABBERGASTED
                        259
                        
                    XIX. PHIL MOVES TO AMZI'S
                        272
                        
                    XX. BACK TO STOP SEVEN
                        281
                        
                    
                    XXI. PHIL'S FISTS
                        292
                        
                    XXII. MR. WATERMAN'S GREAT OPPORTUNITY
                        308
                        
                    XXIII. PLEASANT TIMES IN MAIN STREET
                        321
                        
                    XXIV. THE FORSAKEN GARDEN
                        336
                        
                    XXV. PHIL ENCOUNTERS THE SHERIFF
                        355
                        
                    XXVI. A CALL IN BUCKEYE LANE
                        373
                        
                    XXVII. AMZI'S PERFIDY
                        385
                        
                
            
            
            
                OTHERWISE PHYLLIS
                
            
            
        
        
            
            
                OTHERWISE PHYLLIS
                
                    CHAPTER 1
                    THE KIRKWOODS BREAK CAMP
                    "STUFF'S all packed, Phil, and on the
                        wagon. Camera safe on top and your suit-case tied to the tail-gate. Shall we
                        march?"
                    "Not crazy about it, daddy. Why not linger another week? We can
                        unlimber in a jiffy."
                    "It's a tempting proposition, old lady, but I have
                        n't the nerve." Kirkwood dropped an armful of brush on the
                        smouldering camp-fire and stood back as it crackled and flamed. There came
                        suddenly a low whining in the trees and a gust of wind caught the sparks
                        from the blazing twigs and flung them heavenward. He threw up his arm and
                        turned his hand to feel the wind. "The weather's at the
                        changing point; there's rain in that!"
                    "Well, we have n't been soaked for some time,"
                        replied Phil. "We've been awfully
                        respectable."
                    "Respectable," laughed her father. "We
                        don't know what the word means! We're unmitigated
                        vagabonds, you and I, Phil. If I did n't know that you like this
                        sort of thing as well as I do, I should n't let you come. But your
                        aunts are on my trail."
                    "Oh, one's aunts! Oh, one's three aunts!"
                        murmured Phil.
                    "Not so lightly to be scorned! When I was in town yesterday your
                        Aunt Kate held me up for a scolding in the post-office. I'd no
                        sooner climbed up to my den than your Aunt Josie dropped in to ask what I
                        had done with you; and while I was waiting for you to buy shoes at
                        Fisher's  your Aunt Fanny strolled by
                        and gave me another overhauling. It's a question whether they
                        don't bring legal process to take you away from me. What's
                        a father more or less among three anxious aunts! As near as I can make out,
                        Aunt Fanny's anxiety is chiefly for your complexion. She says you
                        look like an Indian. And she implied that I am one."
                    "One of her subtle compliments. I've always thought Indians
                        were nice."
                    It was clear that this father and daughter were on the best of terms, and
                        that admiration was of the essence of their relationship. Phil stooped,
                        picked up a pebble and flung it with the unconscious grace of a boy far down
                        the creek. Her Aunt Fanny's solicitude for her complexion was or
                        was not warranted; it depended on one's standard in such matters.
                        Phil was apparently not alarmed about the state of her complexion.
                    "Suppose we wait for the moon," Kirkwood suggested.
                        "It will be with us in an hour, and we can loaf along and still
                        reach town by eleven. Only a little while ago we had to get you to bed by
                        eight, and it used to bother me a lot about your duds; but we've
                        outgrown that trouble. I guess"
                    He paused abruptly and began to whistle softly to himself. Phil was familiar
                        with this trick of her father's. She knew the processes of his mind
                        and the range of his memories well enough to supply the conclusion of such
                        sentences as the one that had resolved itself into a doleful whistle. As he
                        was an excellent amateur musician, the lugubrious tone of his whistling was
                        the subject of many jokes between them.
                    The walls of a miniature ca$nTon rose on either side of the creek, and the
                        light of the wind-blown camp-fire flitted across the face of the shelving
                        rock, or scampered up to the edge of the overhanging cliff, where it flashed
                        fitfully against the sky. The creek splashed and foamed through its rough,
                        boulder-filled channel, knowing that soon it would be free of the dark
                        defile and moving with dignity between shores of  corn toward the Wabash. The cliffs that enclosed Turkey Run represented
                        some wild whim of the giant ice plow as it had rediveded and marked this
                        quarter of the world. The two tents in which the Kirkwoods had lodged for a
                        month had been pitched in a grassy cleft of the more accessible shore, but
                        these and other paraphernalia of the camp were now packed for transportation
                        in a one-horse wagon. As a fiercer assuault of the wind shook the vale, the
                        horse whinnied and pawed impatiently.
                    "Cheer up, Billo! We're going soon!" called
                        Phil.
                    Kirkwood stood by the fire, staring silently into the flames. Phil, having
                        reassured Billo, drew a little away from her father. In earlier times when
                        moods of abstraction fell upon him, she had sought to rouse him; but
                        latterly she had learned the wisdom and kindness of silence. She knew that
                        this annual autumnal gypsying held for him the keenest delight and, in
                        another and baffling phase, a poignancy on which, as she had grown to
                        womanhood, it had seemed impious to allow her imagination to play. She
                        watched him now with the pity that was woven into her love for him: his tall
                        figure and the slightly stooped shoulders; the round felt hat that crowned
                        his thick, close-cut hair, the dejection that seemed expressed in so many
                        trifles at such moments,as in his manner of dropping his hands loosely into
                        the pockets of his corduroy coat, and standing immovable. Without taking his
                        eyes from the fire he sat down presently on a log and she saw him fumbling
                        for his pipe and tobacco. He bent to thrust a chip into the fire with the
                        deliberation that marked his movements in these moods. Now and then he took
                        the pipe from his mouth, and she knew the look that had come into his gray
                        eyes, though she saw only the profile of his bearded face as the firelight
                        limned it.
                    Now, as at other such times, on summer evenings in the little garden at home,
                        or on winter nights before the fire in their sitting-room, she felt that he
                        should be left to himself; that his spirit traversed realms beyond
                        boundaries she might not cross; and that in a little while his reverie would
                        end and  he would rise and fling up his long
                        arms and ask whether it was breakfast-time or time to go to bed.
                    Phil Kirkwood was eighteen, a slim, brown, graceful creature, with a habit of
                        carrying her chin a little high; a young person who seemed to be enjoying
                        flights into the realm of reverie at times, and then, before you were aware
                        of it, was off, away out of sight and difficult to catch with hand or eye.
                        As a child this abruptness had been amusing; now that she was eighteen her
                        aunts had begun to be distressed by it. Her critics were driven to wild
                        things for comparisons. She was as quick as a swallow; and yet a
                        conscientious ornithologist would have likened her in her moments of
                        contemplation to the thrush for demureness. And a robin hopping across a
                        meadow, alert in all his mysterious senses, was not more alive than Phil in
                        action. Her middle-aged aunts said she was impudent, but this did not mean
                        impudent speech; it was Phil's silences that annoyed her aunts and
                        sometimes embarrassed or dismayed other people. Her brown eye could be very
                        steady and wholly respectful when, at the same time, there was a suspicious
                        twitching of her thread-of-scarlet lips. The aunts were often outraged by
                        her conduct. Individually and collectively they had endeavored to correct
                        her grievous faults, and she had received their instructions meekly. But
                        what could one do with a mild brown eye that met the gaze of aunts so
                        steadily and submissively, while her lips betrayed quite other emotions!
                    Phil's clothes were another source of distress. She hated hats and
                        in open weather rejected them altogether. A tamo'-shanter was to
                        her liking, and a boy's cap was even better. The uniform of the
                        basketball team at high school suited her perfectly; and yet her
                        unreasonable aunts had made a frightful row when she wore it as a street
                        garb. She gave this up, partly to mollify the aunts, but rather more to save
                        her father from the annoyance of their complaints. She clung, however, to
                        her sweater,on which a large "M" advertised her alma mater most indecorously,and in spite of the  aunts' vigilance she occasionally
                        appeared at Center Church in tan shoes; which was not what one had a right
                        to expect of a great-granddaughter of Amzi I, whose benevolent countenance,
                        framed for adoration in the Sunday-School room, spoke for the conservative
                        traditions of the town honored with his name.
                    Phil had no sense of style; her aunts were agreed on this. Her hair-ribbons
                        rarely matched her stockings; and the stockings on agile legs like
                        Phil's, that were constantly dancing in the eyes of all Montgomery,
                        should, by all the canons of order and decency, present holeless surfaces to
                        captious critics. That they frequently did not was a shame, a reproach, a
                        disgrace, but no fault, we may be sure, of the anxious aunts. Manifestly
                        Phil had no immediate intention of growing up. The idea of being a young
                        lady did not interest her. In June of this particular year she had been
                        graduated from the Montgomery High School, in a white dress and (noteworthy
                        achievement of the combined aunts!) impeccable white shoes and stockings.
                        Pink ribbons (pink being the class color) had enhanced the decorative effect
                        of the gown and a pink bow had given a becoming touch of grace to her head.
                        Phil's hairbrown in shadow and gold in sunlightwas washed by
                        Montgomery's house-to-house hairdresser whenever Aunt Fanny could
                        corner Phil for the purpose.
                    Phil's general effect was of browness. Midwinter never saw the
                        passing of the tan from her cheek; her vigorous young fists were always
                        brown; when permitted a choice she chose brown clothes: she was a brown
                        girl.
                    Speaking of Phil's graduation, it should be mentioned that she had
                        contributed a ten-minute oration to the commencement exercises, its subject
                        being "The Dogs of Main Street." This was not conceded a
                        place on the programme without a struggle. The topic was frivolous and
                        without precedent; moreover, it was unliterarya heinous offense, difficult
                        of condonation. To admit the dogs of Main Street to a high-school  commencement, an affair of pomp and ceremony
                        held in Hastings's Theater, was not less than shocking. It had
                        seemed so to the principal, but he knew Phil; and knowing Phil he laughed
                        when the English teacher protested that it would compromise her professional
                        dignity to allow a student to discuss the vagrant canines of Main Street in
                        a commencement essay. She had expected Phil to prepare a thesis on
                        "What the Poets Have Meant to Me," and for this
                        "The Dogs of Main Street" was no proper substitute. The
                        superintendent of schools, scanning the programme before it went to the
                        printer, shuddered; but it was not for naught that Phil's
                        "people" were of Montgomery's elect.
                    Phil was, in fact, a Montgomery. Her great-grandfather,
                        Amzi Montgomery, observing the unpopulous Hoosier landscape with a shrewd
                        eye, had, in the year of grace 1829, opened a general store on the exact
                        spot now occupied by Montgomery's Bank, and the proper authorities
                        a few years later called the name of the place Montgomery, which it remains
                        to this day. This explains why the superintendent of schools overlooked the
                        temerity of Amzi's great-granddaughter in electing the Main Street
                        fauna as the subject of her commencement address rather than her
                        indebtedness to the poets, though it may not be illuminative as to the holes
                        in Phil's stockings. But on this point we shall be enlightened
                        later.
                    Phil raised her head. There had come a lull in the whisper of the weather
                        spirit in the sycamores, and she was aware of a sound that was not the noise
                        of the creek among the boulders. It was a strain of music not of
                        nature's making and Phil's healthy young curiosity was
                        instantly aroused by it. Her father maintained his lonely vigil by the fire,
                        quite oblivious of her and of all things. She caught another strain, and
                        then began climbing the cliff.
                    The ascent was difficult, but she drew herself up swiftly, catching at
                        bushes, seeking with accustomed feet the secure limestone ledges that
                        promised safety, pausing to listen when bits of loosened stone fell behind
                        her. Finally, catching the  protruding roots of
                        a great sycamore whose shadow had guided her, she gained the top. The moon,
                        invisible in the vale, now greeted her as it rose superbly above a dark
                        woodland across a wide stretch of intervening field. But there were nearer
                        lights than those of star and moon, and their presence afforded her a thrill
                        of surprise.
                    Clearer now came the strains of music. Here was a combination of phenomena
                        that informed the familiar region with strangeness. The music came from a
                        barn, and she remembered that barn well as a huge, gloomy affair on the
                        Holton farm. Satisfied of this, Phil turned, half-unconsciously, and glanced
                        up at the sycamore. That hoary old landmark defined a boundary, and a
                        boundary which, on various accounts, it was incumbent upon the
                        great-granddaughter of Amzi Montgomery I to observe. A dividing fence ran
                        from the sycamore, straight toward the moon. It was a
                        "stake-and-rider" fence, and the notches on the Holton
                        side of it were filled with wild raspberry, elderberry, and weeds; but on
                        the Montgomery side these interstices were free of such tangle. The fact
                        that lights and music advertised the Holton farm to the eye and ear seemed
                        to Phil a matter worthy of her attention. The corn was in the shock on the
                        Montgomery side; the adjacent Holton field had lain fallow that year. The
                        shocks of corn suggested to Phil's imagination the tents of an
                        unsentineled host or an abandoned camp; but she walked fearlessly toward the
                        lights and music, bent upon investigation. The moon would not for some time
                        creep high enough to light the valley and disturb her father's
                        vigil by the camp-fire: there need be no haste, for even if he missed her he
                        would not be alarmed.
                    The old Holton house and its outbuildings lay near the fence and Phil
                        calculated that without leaving her ancestral acres she would be able to
                        determine exactly the nature and extent of this unprecedented revelry in the
                        Holton barn. She approached as near as possible and rested her arms on the
                        rough top rail of the fence. There were doors on both sides of the lumbering
                        old structure, and her tramp across  the
                        cornfield was rewarded by a comprehensive view of the scene within. The
                        music ceased and she heard voicesgay, happy voicesgreeting some late-comers
                        whose automobile had just "chug-chugged" into the
                        barnyard. She saw, beyond the brilliantly lighted interior, the motors and
                        carriages that had conveyed the company to the dance; and she caught a
                        glimpse of the farmhouse itself, where doubtless refreshments were even now
                        in readiness. Phil was far enough away to be safe from observation and yet
                        near enough to identify many of the dancers. They were chiefly young people
                        she had known all her life, and the strangers were presumably friends of the
                        Holtons from Indianapolis and elsewhere.
                    The strains of a familiar waltz caused a quick reassembling of the dancers.
                        The music tingled in Phil's blood. She kept time with head and
                        hands, and then, swinging round, began dancing, humming the air as her
                        figure swayed and bent to its cadences. By some whim the nearest corn-shock
                        became the center of her attention. Round and round it she moved, with a
                        child's abandon; and now that the moon's full glory lay
                        upon the fields, her shadow danced mockingly with her. Fauns and nymphs
                        tripped thus to wild music in the enchanted long ago when the world was
                        young. Hers was the lightest, the most fantastic of irresponsible shadows.
                        It was not the mere reflection of her body, but a prefigurement of her
                        buoyant spirit, that had escaped from her control and tauntingly eluded
                        capture. Her mind had never known a morbid moment; she had never feared the
                        dark, without or within. And this was her private affaira joke between her
                        and the moon and the earth. It was for the moment all hersearth and heaven,
                        the mystery of the stars, the slumbering power of a beneficent land that
                        only yesterday had vouchsafed its kindly fruits in reward of man's
                        labor.
                    After a breathless interval a two-step followed, and Phil danced again,
                        seizing a corn-stalk and holding it above her head with both hands like a
                        wand. When the music ended  she poised on tiptoe
                        and flung the stalk far from her toward the barn as though it were a
                        javelin. Then as she took a step toward the fence she was aware that some
                        one had been watching her. It was, indeed, a nice question whether the
                        flying stalk had not grazed the ear of a man who stood on Holton soil, his
                        arms resting on the rail just as hers had been ten minutes earlier, and near
                        the same spot.
                    "'Lo!" gasped Phil breathlessly.
                    "'Lo!"
                    They surveyed each other calmly in the moonlight. The young man beyond the
                        fence straightened and removed his hat. He had been watching her antics
                        round the corn-shock and Phil resented it.
                    "What were you doing that for?" she demanded indignantly,
                        her hands in her sweater pockets.
                    "Doing what, for instance?"
                    "Watching me. It was n't fair."
                    "Oh, I liked your dancing; that was all."
                    "Oh!"
                    An "Oh" let fall with certain intonations is a serious
                        impediment to conversation. The young gentleman seemed unable at this
                        crucial instant to think of a fitting reply. Finding himself unequal to a
                        response in her own key he merely said:
                    "I'm sorry. I really did n't mean to. I came over
                        here to sit on the fence and watch the party."
                    "Watch it! Why don't you go in and dance?"
                    He glanced down as though to suggest that if Phil were to scrutinize his
                        raiment she might very readily understand why, instead of being among the
                        dancers, he contented himself with watching them from a convenient fence
                        corner. He carried a crumpled coat on his arm; the collar of his flannel
                        shirt was turned up round his throat. His hat was of battered felt with a
                        rent in the creased crown.
                    "My brother and sister are giving the party. I'm not in
                        it."
                    "I suppose your invitation got lost in the mail," suggested
                             Phil, this being a form of explanation
                        frequently proffered by local humorists for their failure to appear at
                        Montgomery functions.
                    "Nothing like that! I did n't expect to be here to-day. In
                        fact, I've been off trying to borrow a team of horses; one of mine
                        went lame. I've just brought them home, and I'm wondering
                        how long I've got to wait before the rumpus is over and those folks
                        get out of there and give the horses a chance. It's going to rain
                        before morning."
                    Phil had heard the same prognostication from her father, and it was in the
                        young man's favor that he was wise in weather lore. The musicians
                        had begun to play a popular barn dance, and the two spectators watched the
                        dancers catch step to it. Then Phil, having by this time drawn a trifle
                        closer to the fence and been reassured by her observations of the
                        clean-shaven face of the young man, became personal.
                    "Are you Charlie Holton?"
                    "No; Fred. Charlie's my brother."
                    "And your sister's name is Ethel."
                    "O. K. I'm trying to figure you out. If you were
                        n't so tall I'd guess you were Phyllis
                        Kirkwood."
                    "That's all of my name," replied Phil. "I
                        remember you now, but you must have been away a long time. I had
                        n't heard that anybody was living over there."
                    "The family have n't been here much since I was a kid. They
                        have moved out their things. What's left is mine."
                    Mr. Fredrick Holton turned and extended the hand that held his hat with a
                        comprehensive gesture. There was a tinge of irony in his tone that Phil did
                        not miss. "What's left herehouse, barn, and landbelongs to
                        me. The town house has been sold and Charlie and Ethel have come out here to
                        say good-bye to the farm."
                    "Oh!"
                    This time Phil's "Oh" connoted mild surprise,
                        polite interest, and faint curiosity.
                    The wind rustled the leaves among the corn-shocks. The moon gazed
                        benevolently upon the barn, tolerant of the 
                        impertinence of man-made light and a gayety that was wholly inconsonant with
                        her previous knowledge of this particular bit of landscape.
                    Fred Holton did not amplify his last statement, so Phil's
                        "Oh," in so far as it expressed curiosity as to the
                        disposition of the Holton territory and Mr. Frederick Holton's
                        relation to it, seemed destined to no immediate satisfaction.
                    "I must skip," remarked Phil; though she did not, in fact,
                        skip at once.
                    "Staying over at your grandfather's?" The young
                        man's arm pointed toward the north and the venerable farmhouse long
                        occupied by tenants of the Montgomerys.
                    Old Amzi had acquired much land in his day and his grandson, Amzi III, clung
                        to most of it. But this little availed Phil, as we shall see. Still it was
                        conceivable and pardonable that Fred Holton should assume that Phil was
                        domiciled upon soil to which she had presumably certain inalienable
                        rights.
                    "No; I've been camping and my father's waiting for
                        me down there in Turkey Run. We've been here a month."
                    "It must be good fun, camping that way."
                    "Oh, rather! But it's toughthe going home
                        afterwards."
                    "I hate towns myself. I expect to have some fun out
                        here."
                    "I heard this farm had been sold," remarked Phil
                        leadingly.
                    "Well, I suppose it amounts to that. They were dividing up
                        father's estate, and I drew it."
                    "Well, it's not so much to look at," remarked
                        Phil, as though the appraisement of farm property were quite in the line of
                        her occupations. "I've been across your pasture a number
                        of times on my way to Uncle Amzi's for milk, but I did n't
                        know any one was living here. One can hardly mention your farm in terms of
                        grandeur or splendor."
                    Fred Holton laughed, a cheerful, pleasant laugh. Phil had not thought of it
                        before, but she decided now that she liked him. His voice was agreeable, and
                        she noted his slight drawl. Phil's father, who was born in the
                        Berkshires, said all  Hoosiers drawled. As a
                        matter of fact, Phil, who was indubitably a Hoosier, did not, save in a
                        whimsical fashion of her own, to give a humorous turn to the large words
                        with which she sometimes embellished her conversation. Her father said that
                        her freedom from the drawl was no fault of the Montgomery High School, but
                        attributable to his own vigilance.
                    Phil knew that it was unseemly to be talking across a fence to a strange
                        young man, particularly when her father was doubtless waiting for her to
                        return for the homeward journey; and she knew that she was guilty of a
                        grievous offense in talking to a Holton in any circumstances. Still the
                        situation appealed to her imagination. There hung the moon, patron goddess
                        of such encounters, and here were fields of mystery.
                    "They say it's no good, do they? They're right. I
                        know all about it, so you don't need to be sorry for
                        me."
                    Sensitiveness spoke here; obviously others had made the mistake, of which she
                        would not be guilty, of sympathizing with him in his possession of these
                        unprofitable acres. Phil had no intention of being sorry for him. She rather
                        liked him for not wanting her sympathy, though to be sure there was no
                        reason why he should have expected it.
                    "You've been living in Indianapolis?"
                    "The folks have. Father died, you know, nearly two years ago. I was
                        in Mexico, and now I'm back to stay."
                    "I suppose you learned farming in Mexico?" Phil
                        pursued.
                    "Well, hardly! Mining; no silver; quit."
                    "Oh," said Phil, and filed his telegram for reference.
                    They watched the dance for a few minutes.
                    "What's that?"
                    Phil started guiltily as Holton turned his head toward the creek, listening.
                        Her father was sounding the immelodious fish-horn which he called their
                        signal corps. He must have become alarmed by her long absence or he would
                        not have resorted to it, and she recalled with shame that it had been buried
                        in a soap-box with minor cooking-utensils at the  bottom of the wagon, and could not have been resurrected without
                        trouble.
                    "Good-bye!" She ran swiftly across the field toward the
                        creek. The horn, sounding at intervals in long raucous blasts, roused Phil
                        to her best speed. She ran boy fashion with her head down, elbows at her
                        sides. Fred Holton watched her until she disappeared.
                    He made a d$eAtour of the barn, followed a lane that let to the town road,
                        and waited, in the shadow of a great walnut at the edge of a pasture. He was
                        soon rewarded by the sound of wheels coming up from the creek, and in a
                        moment the one-horse wagon bearing Phil and her father passed slowly. He
                        heard their voices distinctly; Kirkwood was chaffing Phil for her prolonged
                        absence. Their good comradeship was evident in their laughter, subdued to
                        the mood of the still, white night. Fred Holton was busy reconstructing all
                        his previous knowledge of the Kirkwoods, and he knew a good deal about them,
                        now that he thought of it.
                    At the crest of Listening Hill,so called from the fact that in old times
                        farm-boys had listened there for wandering cows,the wagon lingered for a
                        momentan act of mercy to the horseand the figures of father and daughter
                        were mistily outlined against the sky. Then they resumed their journey and
                        Fred slowly crossed the fields toward the barn.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER II
                    THE MONTGOMERYS OF MONTGOMERY
                    A STOUT, spectacled gentleman of fifty or thereabouts
                        appeared at intervals, every business day of the year, on the steps of
                        Montgomery's Bank, at the corner of Main and Franklin Streets. As
                        he stood on this pedestal, wearing, winter and summer, a blue-and-white
                        seersucker office coat tightly buttoned about his pudgy form, and frequently
                        with an ancient straw hat perched on the side of his head, it was fair to
                        assume that he was in some way connected with the institution from whose
                        doors he emerged. This was, indeed, the fact, and any intelligent child
                        could have enlightened a stranger as to the name of the stout gentleman
                        indicated. He was one of the first citizens of the community, if wealth,
                        probity, and long residence may be said to count for anything. And his name,
                        which it were absurd longer to conceal, was Amzi Montgomery, or, to
                        particularize, Amzi Montgomery III. As both his father and his grandfather
                        who had borne the same name slept peacefully in Greenlawn, it is unnecessary
                        to continue in this narrative the numerical designation of this living Amzi
                        who braved the worst of weathers to inspect the moving incidents of Main
                        Street as a relief from the strain and stress of the business of a private
                        banker.
                    When, every hour or so, Mr. Montgomery, exposing a pink bald head to the
                        elements, glanced up and down the street, usually with a cigar planted
                        resolutely in the corner of his mouth, it was commonly believed that he saw
                        everything that was happening, not only in Main Street, but in all the shops
                        and in the rival banking-houses distributed along that thoroughfare. After
                        surveying the immediate scene,having, for example, noted the customers
                        waiting at the counter of the First National Bank, diagonally opposite,  something almost invariably impelled his
                        glance upward to the sign of a painless dentist, immediately above the First
                        National,a propinquity which had caused a wag (one of the
                        Montgomery's customers) to express the hope that the dentist was
                        more painless than the bank in his extractions.
                    There was a clothing store directly opposite Amzi's bank, and his
                        wandering eye could not have failed to observe the lettering on the windows
                        of the office above it, which, in badly scratched gilt, published the name
                        of Thomas Kirkwood, Attorney at Law, to the litigiously inclined. Still
                        higher on the third and final story of the building hung a
                        photographer's sign in a dilapidated condition, and though a studio
                        skylight spoke further of photography, almost every one knew that the artist
                        had departed years ago, and that Tom Kirkwood had never found another tenant
                        for those upper rooms.
                    At two o'clock on the afternoon of the day following the return of
                        Phil Kirkwood and her father from their camp on Sugar Creek, as Mr.
                        Montgomery appeared upon the steps of the bank and gazed with his usual
                        unconcern up and down Main Street, his spectacles pointed finally (or so it
                        seemed) to the photographer's studio over the way. Although a
                        slight mist was falling and umbrellas bobbed inanely in the fashion of
                        umbrellas, Amzi in his seersucker coat was apparently oblivious of the
                        weather's inclemency. One of the windows of the abandoned
                        photograph gallery was open, and suddenly, without the slightest warning,
                        the head of Miss Phyllis Kirkwood bent over the cornice and she waved her
                        hand with unmistakable friendliness. It was then that Mr. Montgomery, as
                        though replying to a signal, detached his left hand from its pocket, made a
                        gesture as graceful as a man of his figure is capable of, and then, allaying
                        suspicion by passing the hand across his bald head, he looked quickly toward
                        the court-house tower and immediately withdrew to continue his active
                        supervision of the four clerks who sufficed for his bank's
                        business.
                    
                    As depositors were now bringing to the receiving teller's window
                        their day's offerings, Mr. Montgomery took his stand at the paying
                        teller's window,a part of his usual routine,to relieve the pressure
                        incident to the closing hour, one teller at other times being quite equal to
                        the demands of both departments. Mr. Montgomery's manner of paying
                        a check was in itself individaul. He laid his cigar on the edge of the
                        counter, passed the time of day with a slightly asthmatic voice, drew the
                        check toward him with the tips of his fingers, read it, cocked an eye at the
                        indorsement, and counted out the money with a bored air. If silver entered
                        into the transaction, he usually rang the last coin absently on the glass
                        surface of the counter.
                    In other times the sign on the window had proclaimed "Montgomery
                        & Holton, Bankers"; and the deletion of the second name
                        from the copartnership was due to an incident that must be set down
                        succinctly before we proceed further. Amzi II had left a family of five
                        children, of whom Phil Kirkwood's three aunts have already been
                        mentioned. The only one of the Montgomery girls, as they were locally
                        designated, who had made a marriage at all in keeping with the family
                        dignity, had been Lois.
                    Lois, every one said, was the handsomest, the most interesting of the
                        Montgomerys, and she had captured at eighteen the heart of Tom Kirkwood, who
                        had come out of the East to assume the chair of jurisprudence in Madison
                        College, which, as every one knows, is an institution inseparably associated
                        with the fame of Montgomery as a community of enlightenment. Tom Kirkwood
                        was a graduate of Williams College, with a Berlin Ph. D., and he had,
                        moreover, a modes patrimony which, after his marriage to Lois Montgomery, he
                        had invested in the block in Main Street opposite the Montgomery Bank. The
                        year following the marriage he had, in keeping with an early resolution,
                        resigned his professorship and begun the practice of law. He seemed to have
                        escaped the embarrassments and prejudices that attend any practical
                        undertakings by men who have borne the title 
                        of professor, and whether his connection with the Montgomery family saved
                        him from such disqualification it was nevertheless true that he entered upon
                        the law brilliantly. Two or three successes in important cases had launched
                        him upon this second career auspiciously.
                    Amzi II was still living at the time of the marriage, and as he valued his
                        own position in the community and wished his family to maintain its
                        traditions, he had subdivided a large tract of woodland in which his
                        father's house stood, and bestowed an acre lot upon each of his
                        daughters. His son had declined a similar offer, having elected early in
                        life the bachelor state in which we have found him. As Lois had been the
                        first to marry, her house was planted nearest to the gray old brick in which
                        she had been reared.
                    If the gods favored the Montgomerys, they seemed no less to smile with a
                        peculiar indulgence upon the Kirkwoods. People who had said that Lois was a
                        trifle strong-willed and given to frivolity were convinced that her marriage
                        had done much to sober her. In the second year thereafter Phyllis was born,
                        a further assurance that Lois was thoroughly established among the staid
                        matrons of her native town. Then in the fifth year of her marriage,
                        rumorsalmost the first scandalous gossip that had ever passed current in
                        those quiet streetsbegan to be heard. It did not seem possible that in a
                        community whose morals were nurtured in Center Church, a town where
                        everybody was "good," where no respectable man ever
                        entered a saloon and divorce was a word not to be spoken before
                        children,that here, a daughter of the house of Montgomery was causing
                        anxiety among those jealous of her good name. A few of Kirkwood's
                        friends and he had manymay have known the inner history of the cloud that
                        darkened his house; but the end came with a blinding flash that left him
                        dazed and dumb.
                    The town was so knit together, so like a big family, that Lois
                        Montgomery's escapade was a tragedy at every hearthside. It was
                        immeasurably shocking that a young woman married to a reputable man, and
                        with a child still toddling  after her, should
                        have done this grievous thing. To say that she had always been flighty, and
                        that it was what might have been expected of a woman as headstrong as she
                        had been as a girl, was no mollification of the blow to the local
                        conscience, acutely sensitive in all that pertained to the honor and
                        sanctity of the marriage tie. And Jack Holton! That she should have thrown
                        away a man like Tom Kirkwood, a gentleman and a scholar, for a rogue like
                        Holton, added to the blackness of her sin. The Holtons had been second only
                        to the Montgomerys in dignity. The conjunction of the names on the old sign
                        over the bank at Main and Franklin Streets had expressed not only
                        unquestioned financial stability, but a social worth likewise unassailable.
                        Jack Holton, like Amzi Montgomery, had inherited an interest in the
                        banking-house of Montgomery & Holton. To be sure his brother William
                        had been the active representative of the second generation of Holtons, and
                        Jack had never really settled down to anything after he returned from the
                        Eastern college to which he had been sent; but these were things that had
                        not been considered until after he decamped with Lois Kirkwood. Many
                        declared after the event that they had "always known" that
                        Jack was a bad lot. Those who sought to account for Lois Kirkwood's
                        infatuation remembered suddenly that he and Lois had been boy and girl
                        sweethearts and that she had once been engaged to marry him. It was
                        explained that his temperament and hers were harmonious, and that Kirkwood,
                        for all his fine abilities, was a sober-minded fellow, without
                        Holton's zest for the world's gayety. Any further
                        detailsthe countless trifles with which for half a dozen years the gossips
                        of Montgomery regaled themselvesare not for this writing.
                    Many years had passedor, to be explicit, exactly sixteen. One of the first
                        results of the incident had been the immediate elimination of the Holton
                        half of the firm name by which the bank had long been known. Jack's
                        brother William organized the First National Bank, toward which Mr. Amzi
                        Montgomery's spectacles pointed several times  daily, as already noted. Samuel, the oldest son of the first
                        Holton, tried a variety of occupations before he was elected Secretary of
                        State. He never fully severed his ties with Montgomery, retaining a house in
                        town and the farm on Sugar Creek. After retiring from office, he became a
                        venturesome speculator, capitalizing his wide political acquaintance in the
                        sale of shares in all manner of mining and plantation companies, and dying
                        suddenly, had left his estate in a sad clutter.
                    In due course of time it became known that Lois Kirkwood had divorced her
                        husband at long range, from a Western state where such matters were at the
                        time transacted expeditiously, and a formal announcement of her marriage to
                        Holton subsequently appeared in the Montgomery "Evening
                        Star."
                    The day after his wife's departure Kirkwood left his home and did
                        not enter it again. it was said by romanticists among the local gossips that
                        he had touched nothing, leaving it exactly as it had been, and that he
                        always carried the key in his pocket as a reminder of his sorrow. Phil was
                        passed back and forth among her aunts, seriatim, until she
                        went to live with her father, in a rented house far from the original
                        roof-tree.
                    Even in practicing the most rigid economy of space some reference must be
                        made to the attitude of Lois Kirkwood's sisters toward her as a
                        sinning woman. Their amazement had yielded at once to righteous indignation.
                        It was enough that she had sinned against Heaven; but that she should have
                        brought shame upon them all and placed half the continent between herself
                        and the scene and consequences of her iniquity, leaving her family to
                        shoulder all its responsibilities, was too monstrous for expression. They
                        were Montgomerys of Montgomery; it seemed incredible that
                        the town itself could ever recover from the shock of her egregious
                        transgression. They vied with each other in manifestations of sympathy for
                        Kirkwood, whose nobility under suffering was so admirable; and they lavished
                        upon Phil (it had been like
                         Lois, they discovered, to label her with the
                        preposterous name of Phyllis!) an affection which became in time a trial to
                        the child's soul.
                    Their fury gained ardor from the fact that their brother Amzi had never,
                        after he had blinked at them all when they visited him in his private room
                        at the bank the morning after the elopement, mentioned to any living soul
                        the passing of this youngest sister. It had been an occasion to rouse an
                        older brother and the head of his house to some dramatic pronouncement. He
                        should have taken a stand, they said, though just what stand one should
                        take, when one's sister has run off with another man and left a
                        wholly admirable husband and a winsome baby daughter behind, may not,
                        perhaps, have been wholly clear to the minds of the remaining impeccable
                        sisters. They demanded he should confiscate her share of their
                        father's estate as punishment; this should now be Phil's
                        they wanted this understood and they took care that their friends should
                        know that they had made this demand of Amzi. But a gentleman of philosophic
                        habit and temper, who serenely views the world from his bank's
                        doorstep, need hardly be expected to break his natural reticence to thunder
                        at an erring sister, or even to gladden the gallery (imaginably the whole
                        town that bears his name) by transfers of property, of which he was the
                        lawful trustee, to that lady's abandoned heir.
                    Lois had caused all eyes to focus upon the Montgomerys with a new intentness.
                        Before her escapade they had been accepted as a matter of course; now that
                        she had demonstrated that the Montgomerys were subject to the temptations
                        that beset all mankind, every one became curious as to the further
                        definition of the family weaknesses. The community may be said to have
                        awaited the marriages of the three remaining Montgomery girls in much the
                        same spirit that a family physician awaits the appearance of measles in a
                        child that has been exposed to that malady. And Montgomery was not wholly
                        disappointed.
                    Kate, who like Lois, was a trifle temperamental, had fallen  before the charms of one Lawrence Hastings.
                        The manner of Hastings's advent in Montgomery is perhaps worthy of
                        a few words, inasmuch as he came to stay. Hastings was an actor, who visited
                        Montgomery one winter as a member of a company that had trustfully ventured
                        into the provinces with a Shakespearean repertoire. Montgomery was favored
                        in the hope that, being a college town, it would rally to the call of the
                        serious drama. Unfortunately the college was otherwise engaged at the moment
                        with a drama of more contemporaneous interest and authorship. An unusually
                        severe January added to the eager and nipping air upon which the curtain
                        rises in "Hamlet," and proved too much for the
                        well-meaning players. Hastings (so ran tradition) had gallantly bestowed
                        such money as he had upon the ladies of the company to facilitate their
                        flight to New York. His father, a successful manufacture of codfish
                        packing-boxes at Newburyport, telegraphed money for the prodigal's
                        return with the stipulation that he should forswear the inky cloak and abase
                        himself in the box factory.
                    At this point Kate Montgomery, in charge of an entertainment for the benefit
                        of Center Church, invited Hastings (thus providentially flung upon the
                        Hoosier coasts) to give a reading in the church parlors. Almost coincidently
                        the opera house at Montgomery needed a manager, and Hastings accepted the
                        position. The Avon Dramatic Club rose and flourished that winter under
                        Hastings's magic wand. It is not every town of fifteen thousand
                        that suddenly enrolls a Hamlet among her citizens, and as the creator and
                        chief spirit of the dramatic club, Hastings's social acceptance was
                        immediate and complete. In other times the town would have been wary of an
                        actor; but had not Hastings given his services free of charge for the
                        benefit of Center Church, and was he not a gentleman, the son of a wealthy
                        manufacturer, and had he not declined money offered by telegraph that he
                        might cling stubbornly to his art? Kate Montgomery talked a good deal about
                        his art, which he would not relinquish for the boxing of codfish. After
                        Hastings had given a lecture on 
                        "Macbeth" (with readings from the play) in the chapel of
                        Madison College, his respectability was established. There was no reason
                        whatever why Kate Montgomery should not marry him; and she did, at the end
                        of his first year in town. He thereupon assumed the theater lease and what
                        had been the old "Grand Opera House" became under his
                        ownership "Hastings's Theater," or "The
                        Hastings."
                    Fanny Montgomery had contented herself with the hand of a young man named
                        Fosdick who had been summoned to town to organize a commercial club. In two
                        years he added several industries to Montgomery's scant list, and
                        wheedled a new passenger station out of one of the lordly railroads that had
                        long held the town in scorn. Two of the industries failed, the new station
                        was cited as an awful example by the Professor of Fine Arts at the college,
                        and yet Paul Fosdick made himself essential to Montgomery. The commercial
                        club's bimonthly dinners gave the solid citizens an excuse for
                        leaving home six nights a year, and in a community where meetings of whist
                        clubs and church boards constituted the only justification for carrying a
                        latch-key this new freedom established him at once as a friend of mankind.
                        Fosdick was wholly presentable, and while his contributions to the
                        industrial glory of Montgomery lacked elements of permanence, he had, so the
                        "Evening Star" solemnly averred, "done much to
                        rouse our citizens from their lethargy and blaze the starward
                        trail." After he married Fanny, Fosdick opened an office adjoining
                        the Commercial Club rooms and his stationery bore the legend
                        "Investment Securities." Judge Walters, in appointing a
                        receiver for a corporation which Fosdick had organized for the manufacture
                        and sale of paving-brick, inadvertently spoke of the promoter's
                        occupation as that of a "dealer in insecurities"; but this
                        playfulness on the court's part did not shake confidence in
                        Fosdick. He was a popular fellow, and the success of those Commercial Club
                        dinners was not to be discounted by the cynical flings of a judge who was
                        rich enough to be comfortably indifferent to criticism.
                    
                    Amzi Montgomery being, as hinted, a person of philosophic temperament, had
                        interposed no manner of objection to the several marriages of his sisters
                        until Josephine, the oldest, and the last to marry, tendered him a
                        brother-in-law in the person of Alexander Waterman. Josephine was the least
                        attractive of the sisters, and also, it was said, the meekest, the kindest,
                        and the most amiable. An early unhappy affair with a young minister was a
                        part of the local tradition, and she had been cited as a broken-hearted
                        woman until she married Waterman. Waterman was a lawyer who had been seized
                        early in life with a mania for running for Congress. The district had long
                        been Republican, but with singular obstinacy Waterman insisted on being a
                        Democrat. His party being hopelessly in the minority he was graciously
                        permitted to have such nominations as he liked, with the result that he had
                        been defeated for nearly every office within the gift of a proud people. He
                        was a fair jury lawyer, and an orator of considerable repute among those
                        susceptible to the blandishments of the florid school.
                    Amzi's resentment of Josephine's choice was said to be due
                        to a grilling the banker had received at Waterman's hands on the
                        witness stand. Once while standing on the steps of his bank for a survey of
                        the visible universe, Amzi was rewarded with an excellent view of the
                        liveliest runaway that had thrilled Main Street in years. Several persons
                        were hurt, and one of the victims had sued the grocer whose wagon had done
                        the mischief.
                    Waterman was the plaintiff's attorney, and Amzi Montgomery was, of
                        course, an important though reluctant witness. The banker loathed litigation
                        in all its forms and in his own affairs studiously avoided it. It enraged
                        him to find one of his idiosyncrasies advertised by the fact that he had
                        observed the violent collision of a grocer's wagon with a
                        fellow-citizen. His anger was augmented by the patronizing manner in which
                        Waterman compelled him to contribute to the record of the case admissions
                        touching his habits of life, which, though perfectly lawful and decorous,
                        became ridiculous  when uttered on oath in a
                        law court. Every one knew that Mr. Montgomery stood on the bank steps at
                        intervals to take the air, but no one had ever dreamed that he would be
                        obliged to discuss or explain the habit.
                    The "Evening Star" printed all of his testimony that it
                        dared; but as the cross-examination had been conducted before a crowded
                        courtroom the neat give and take between lawyer and witness had not lacked
                        thorough reporting. For several weeks thereafter Amzi did not appear on the
                        bank steps; nor did he revert to his old habit until satisfied that groups
                        of idlers were not lying in wait. After Josephine introduced Waterman to the
                        family circle Amzi seemed generously to overlook the offense. He was as
                        cordial toward him as toward either of the other brothers-in-law, with the
                        exception of Kirkwood, though of course Kirkwood, strictly speaking, no
                        longer continued in that relationship.
                    These details aside, it is possible to return to the bank, and await the
                        result of that furtive gesture with which Mr. Amzi Montgomery responded to
                        Phil Kirkwood's signal from the window of the photograph gallery.
                        By half-past four the clerks had concluded their day's work; the
                        routine letters to Chicago, Cincinnati, and Indianapolis correspondents had
                        been sealed and dispatched, and the vault locked by Mr.
                        Montgomery's own hand. Thereupon he retired to the back room,
                        unlocked the Franklin Street door and beguiled himself with the
                        "Evening Star." Shortly before five o'clock he
                        heard light steps outside followed by a tap and Phil opened and closed the
                        door.
                    "Lo, Amy!"
                    She pronounced the a long, after a fashion she had adopted
                        in childhood and refused to relinquish. Amzi was "A-mee"
                        to Phil. She glanced into the bank room, seized his newspaper, crunched it
                        into a football, and kicked it over the tellers' cages into the
                        front window. Then she pressed her uncle down into his chair, grasped his
                        face in her hands, and held him while she kissed him on the nose, the left
                        eye, and the right cheek, choosing the spot in every instance with  provoking deliberation as she held his
                        wriggling head. He lost his cigar and his spectacles were knocked awry, but
                        he did not appear to be distressed. Phil set his spectacles straight, struck
                        a match for a fresh cigar, and seated herself on the table.
                    "I'm back, Amy. How did you know we'd be home
                        today?"
                    "Dreamed it," said Amzi, apparently relieved that her
                        assaults upon his peace and dignity were ended.
                    "I'd been watching for you half an hour before you came out
                        on the steps. I'd about given you up."
                    "So? You were pretty late getting home last night. Your father ought
                        to be ashamed of himself."
                    Amzi glared at Phil. His curiously large blue eyes could, at will, express
                        ferocity, and the red and purple in his face deepened as he shut his jaws
                        tight. She was not, however, in the least disturbed, not even when he pushed
                        back his chair to escape her swinging legs, and pointed his finger at her
                        threateningly.
                    "I wanted to see you," he gasped.
                    "So I inferred," Phil remarked, bending forward and
                        compressing her lips as though making a careful calculation, then touching
                        the point of his nose.
                    Amzi rubbed the outraged nose with the back of his hand, wheezed hoarsely
                        (the effect of the rain upon his asthma), and cleared his throat.
                    "You'll come down from your high horse in a minute.
                        I've got something to tell you that will sober you up a
                        bit."
                    Phil raised her hands and with brown nimble fingers found and readjusted the
                        pin that affixed a shabby felt hat to her hair. Then she folded her arms and
                        looked at the tips of her shoes.
                    "The suspense is killing me. I who am about to die salute
                        you!"
                    Amzi frowned at her levity. His frown caused a disturbance throughout his
                        vast tracts of baldness.
                    
                    "You'll change your tune in a minute, my young commodore.
                        Have you seen your aunts?"
                    "No; but it's not their fault! Aunt Josie called; the
                        others telephoned for dates. I saw Aunt Josie first, which explains why we
                        did n't meet. I knew something was up."
                    "Something is up. They got me over to Josie's last night to
                        ask me to help. It's a big programme. And I wanted to warn you in
                        advance. You've got to stop all your capers; no more camps on Sugar
                        Creek, no more tomboy foolishness; no more general nonsense. You've
                        got to be a civilized woman, and conduct yourself according to the rules in
                        such cases made and provided."
                    "Oh, is that it? And they got you to tell me, did they?
                    How sweet of them!" observed Phil. "I might have guessed it
                        from the look of Aunt Josie's back as she went out the
                        gate."
                    "Her back? Thunder! How did you see her back?"
                    "From the roof, Amy, if you must know. If you had three aunts who
                        had turned up every few minutes all your natural life to tell you what not
                        to do, you'd run for the roof, too, every time you heard the gate
                        click. And that last cook they put in the house was just a spy for them. But
                        she did n't spy long! I've bounced her!"
                    Amzi blinked and coughed, and feigned even greater ferocity.
                    "That's it! That's the kind of thing
                        you've got to stop doing! You're always bouncing the hired
                        girls your aunts put in the house to take care of you and you've
                        got to quit; you've got to learn how to manage a servant;
                        you've got" and he drew himself up to charge his words
                        with all possible dignity"you've got to be a
                        lady."
                    "You insinuate, Amy, that I'm not one, just natural
                        born?"
                    "I don't mean any such thing," he blurted.
                        "You know mighty well what I meanthis skylarking, this galloping
                        around town on your pony. You've got to behave yourself;
                        you've got to pay attention to what your aunts tell you.
                        You've got to listen to me!"
                    
                    "Look me in the eye, you old fraud! I'll bet every one of
                        'em has called you up to tell you to see me and give me a
                        lecturing. They're a jolly lot of cowards, that's all. And
                        I came over here thinking you wanted to be nice and cheerful like you always
                        used to be. All by your dear old lonesome you'd never think of
                        talking to me like this; I've a good notion to muss you
                        up!"
                    The thought of being mussed was clearly disturbing. He rose hastily and
                        retreated to the barred window, with the table between them.
                    "Oh, you're guilty! I always know when they've
                        been putting you up to something. Come along now and sit down like a good
                        old uncle and tell me what new idea has struck those foolish females. Sit
                        down right there in your little chair, Amy; I'll let you off from
                        that mussing if you tell the truth."
                    "You see, Phil," he began earnestly,
                        "you've grown up. You're not a kid any more to
                        chase cats and dogs through the court-house square, and flip on the
                        interurbans, but a grown woman, and you've got to begin acting like
                        one. And you've got to begin right now. Just look at your shoes;
                        look at that hat! What kind of clothes is that sailor boy's suit
                        you're wearing? You've got to dress like a decent white
                        girl that's had some bringing-up, and you've got
                        toyou've got" Amzi coughed as though afraid of the
                        intended conclusion of his sentence. Phil's eyes were bent upon him
                        with disconcerting gravity. He hoped that Phil would interrupt with one of
                        her usual impertinences; but with the suspicion of laughter in her eyes she
                        waited, so that he perforce blurted it out. "You've got to
                        go into society; that's what's the matter!"
                    Phil moved her head slightly to one side, and her lips parted. A faraway look
                        came into her eyes for an instant only. Amzi was watching her keenly. He was
                        taken aback by her abrupt change of manner; her sudden sobriety baffled him.
                        Something very sweet and wistful came into her face; something that he had
                        not seen there before, and he was touched by it.
                    
                    "I suppose I must change my ways, Uncle Amy. I do act like a wild
                        zebra,I know that. But I'm sorry. Of course it's silly for
                        a girl who's nearly nineteen to be as skittish as I am. And they
                        tell me I'm a bad example to my cousins and the whole town.
                        It's tough to be a bad example. What's this
                        they're going to do to me?"
                    "Oh, you've got to be brought out; you've got to
                        have a party; they want me to have it in my house."
                    "All right," said Phil tamely. She seemed, indeed, to be
                        thinking of something else. Her manner continued to puzzle him; he was even
                        troubled by it. He relighted his cigar and watched the smoke of the
                        extinguished match after he had tossed it into the little grate.
                    "Uncle Amy," said Phil, quite soberly,
                        "I'm really serious now. I've been wondering a
                        good deal about what's going to become of me."
                    "How's that, Phil?"
                    "Well, I'm not as silly as I act; and I've been
                        wondering whether I ought n't to try to do something?"
                    "What kind of something? Housekeepingthat sort of
                        thing?"
                    "Yes; but more than that. I ought to go to work to earn
                        money."
                    Amzi shrugged his shoulders.
                    "Thunder! you can't do that," he said with
                        decision. "It would n't be proper for you to do
                        that."
                    "I don't see why not. Other girls do."
                    "Girls do when they have to. You don't have
                        to."
                    "I'm not so sure of that. We might as well be sensible if
                        we're going to talk about it."
                    Amzi agreed to this with a nod and resettled himself in his chair.
                    "Daddy is n't making enough to take care of us,
                        that's all. This afternoon I was over in his office cleaning up his
                        desk, you know he never does it himself, and even a harumscarum like me can
                        help it some,and I saw a lot of things that scared me. Bills and things like
                        that. And it would be  hard to talk to daddy
                        about it; I don't think I ever could. And you know he really could
                        make a lot of money if he wanted to; I can tell that from the letters he
                        gets. He does n't answer his letters. Every month last year I used
                        to straighten his desk, and some of last spring's bills are still
                        there, and they have n't been paid. I know, of course, that that
                        can't go on forever."
                    "You ought n't to have to bother about that, Phil.
                        It's none of your business."
                    "Yes," she replied, earnestly, "it is my business.
                        And it's been troubling me for a long time. I can't talk
                        to father about it; you can see how that would be; and he's such a
                        dearso fine and kind. I suppose there is n't anybody on earth as
                        fine as daddy. And he breaks my heart, sometimes; goes about so quiet, as
                        though he had gone into himself and shut the blinds, as they do in a house
                        where somebody's dead. It seems just like that, Uncle
                        Amy."
                    Amzi was uncomfortable. It was not to hear her speak of drawn blinds in
                        houses of the dead that he had summoned Phil for this interview. His sisters
                        had asked him to reason with her, as they had often appealed to him before
                        in their well-meant but tactless efforts to correct her faults, but she had
                        evinced an accession of reasonableness that made him uneasy. She had changed
                        from the impulsive, exasperating young creature he knew into an anxious,
                        depressed woman in a mackintosh, whom he did not know at all! He breathed
                        hard for a few minutes, angry at his sisters for bringing this situation to
                        pass. It was absurd to tame a girl of Phil's spirit. He had
                        enjoyed, more than anything in his life, his confidential relations with
                        Phil. It was more for the fun of the thing than because there was any cause
                        for it that a certain amount of mystery was thrown about such interviews as
                        this. There was no reason on earth why Phil should n't have entered
                        by the front door in banking-hours, or visited him in her
                        grandfather's house where he lived. But he liked the joke of it. He
                        liked all their jokes, and entered zestfully into all manner of conspiracies
                        with her, to the discomfiture  of the aunts, to
                        thwart their curbing of her liberties. He prided himself upon his complete
                        self-control, and it was distinctly annoying to find that Phil's
                        future, seen against a background plastered with her father's
                        unpaid bills, caused a sudden hot anger to surge in his heart. Within the
                        range of his ambitions and desires he did as he liked; and he had a hardened
                        bachelor's fondness for having his way. He walked to the window and
                        stared out at the street. It grew late and the rain was gathering volume as
                        though preparing for a night of it.
                    A truck heavily loaded with boxes and crates of furniture moved slowly
                        through Franklin Street toward the railway. Amzi was at once alert. He read
                        much current history in the labels on passing freight, and often formed the
                        basis for credits therefrom. Was it possible that one of the bank's
                        customers was feloniously smuggling merchandise out of town to avoid writs
                        of attachment? Such evils had been known. Phil jumped from the table and
                        joined him at the window. She knew her Uncle Amzi's mental
                        processes much better than he imagined; suspicion was writ large on his
                        countenance.
                    "Humph!" she said. "That's only the stuff
                        from the Samuel Holton house. Charlie and Ethel are moving to Indianapolis.
                        That's some of the furniture they had in their town house here. I
                        saw the crates in the yard this morning."
                    "I believe you're right, Phil; I believe you're
                        right."
                    His eyes opened and shut several times quickly, as he assimilated this
                        information. Then he recurred to Phil's affairs.
                    "Speaking of money, Phil, we'll have to do something about
                        those unpaid bills. In a town like this everybody knows everybody's
                        businessexcept yours and mine. We can't have your father's
                        bills piling up; they've got to be paid. And this brings me to
                        something I've meant to speak to you about for some time. In fact,
                        I've just been waiting for a chance, but you're so
                        confoundedly hard to catch. There's asome moneyerthat is to say,
                        Phil, as executor  of your
                        grandfather's estate, I hold some money, that er"
                    He coughed furiously, blew his nose, and made a fresh start.
                    "I'm going to open an account for youyour own money,
                        understand!and you can pay those bills yourself. We'll start with,
                        say, five hundred dollars and you can depend on a hundred a month. It will
                        be strictlyer your money. Understand? You need n't say anything to
                        your father about it. That's all of that."
                    He feigned sudden interest in the wet street, but Phil, whose eyes had not
                        left him, tapped him lightly on the shoulder.
                    "Oh, no, you don't! You have n't a cent that
                        belongs to me, and you know it, you splendid old fraud. And don't
                        you try that game on me again or I'll stop speaking to
                        you."
                    "Do you mean" he began to bluster; "do you mean to
                        say that I don't know my own business? Do you think I'm
                        going to steal money from your grandfather's estate to give you?
                        Why"
                    "You were n't born to adorn the front row of successful
                        liars, Amy. And even if you had a million or two lying round loose, you
                        could n't give me a cent of it; I would n't take it. It
                        would n't be square to daddy; daddy's a gentleman, you
                        know, and I could n't do anything meaner than to take your money to
                        pay his debts with. So there, you old dear, I've a good notion to
                        muss you up, after all."
                    He again put the table between them, and stood puffing from the unwonted
                        haste with which he had eluded her grasp. He had managed the matter badly,
                        and as his hand, thrust into his coat pocket, touched a check he had written
                        and placed there as a preliminary to this interview, a sheepish expression
                        crossed his face.
                    "Well," he blurted, "I'd like to know
                        what in thunder you're going to do! I tell you it's yours
                        by right. I ought to have given it to you long ago."
                    
                    "I'm skipping," said Phil, reaching down to button
                        her raincoat. "We're going to Rose's for
                        tea."
                    "Tea?"
                    Amzi's emphasis implied that in tea lay the sole importance of
                        Phil's announcement; and yet, subjected to even the most
                        superficial analysis, Mr. Montgomery's sensations were not in the
                        least attributable to the thought of tea. Tea in the sense intended by Phil
                        was wholly commonplace,a combination of cold meat, or perhaps of broiled
                        chicken, with hot biscuits, and honey or jam, or maybe canned peaches with
                        cream. Considered either as a beverage or as a meal, tea contained no
                        thrill; and yet perhaps the thought of tea at Miss Rose Bartlett's
                        aroused in Amzi Montgomery's breast certain emotions which were
                        concealed by his explosive emphasis. Phil, turning up the collar of her
                        mackintosh, reaffirmed the fact of tea.
                    "You never come to my house for just tea, but you go to
                        Rose's. You're always going to Rose's for
                        tea," boomed Amzi.
                    "Daddy likes to go," added Phil, moving toward the
                        door.
                    "I suppose he does," remarked Amzi, a little absently.
                    "By-by, Amy. Thanks, just the same, anyhow."
                    "Good-night, Phil!"
                    Phil lingered, her hand on the knob.
                    "Come over yourself, after tea. There may be music. Daddy keeps his
                        'cello over there, you know."
                    "His 'cello?"
                    It seemed that 'cello, like tea, was a word of deep significance.
                        Amzi glared at Phil, who raised her head and laughed.
                    "Nonsense!" he ejaculated, though it was not clear just
                        wherein the nonsense lay.
                    "Oh, your old flute is over there, too," said Phil, not
                        without scorn.
                    Having launched this she laughed again and the door closed upon her with a
                        bang. She hammered the glass with  her knuckles
                        to attract his attention, flung back her head as she laughed again, and
                        vanished.
                    Amzi stared at the door's rain-splashed pane. The world was empty
                        now that Phil had gone. He drew down the shabby green blind with a jerk and
                        prepared to go home.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER III
                    98 BUCKEYE LANE
                    THE Bartlett sisters lived in Buckeye Lane, a thoroughfare
                        that ran along the college campus. Most of the faculty dwelt there, and the
                        Bartlett girls (every one said "the Bartlett girls" just
                        as every one said "the Montgomery girls": it was
                        established local usage) were daughters of a professor who had died long
                        ago.
                    Rose was the housekeeper, and a very efficient one she was, too. In all
                        business transactions, from the purchase of vegetables to the collection of
                        the dividends on their small inheritance, Rose was the negotiator and active
                        agent. She was, moreover, an excellent cook; her reputation in this
                        department of domestic science was the highest. And as two women can hardly
                        be expected to exist on something like four hundred dollars a year (the sum
                        reluctantly yielded by their patrimony), Miss Rose commercialized her genius
                        by baking cakes, cookies, jumbles, and pies, if demanded. In Montgomery,
                        where only Mrs. William Holton had ever kept more than one servant (though
                        Fanny Fosdick had attempted higher flights), Miss Rose was an ever-ready
                        help in times of domestic adversity to distracted housekeepers who found the
                        maintenance of even one servant attended with the gravest difficulties.
                    Miss Nan was an expert needlewoman, and, like her sister, augmented their
                        income by the labor of her hands. Her contributions to the pot were, indeed,
                        much larger than Rose's. The clients she served were chiefly women
                        of fastidious taste in these matters who lived in surrounding cities. Her
                        exhibitions of cross-stitching, hemstitching, and drawn-work were so
                        admirable as to establish a broad field for her enterprises. Her designs
                        were her own, and she served ladies who  liked
                        novel and exclusive patterns. These employments had proved in no wise
                        detrimental to the social standing of the Bartlett girls. If Rose baked a
                        cake for a wedding supper, this did not militate in the least against her
                        eligibility as a guest of the occasion. And likewise Nan could unfold a
                        napkin she had herself hemstitched for a consideration, without the
                        slightest fear that any one would make invidious comments upon the fact.
                    In the matter of the respective ages of the sisters no stranger was ever
                        informed of the exact fact, although every one knew. Judge Walters had
                        established an unchangeable age for both of them. They were, the judge said,
                        twenty-nine; though as they were not twins, and as he had persisted in this
                        fallacy for almost a decade, it is difficult to see how they could both be
                        permanently twenty-nine.
                    Not all the time of these ladies was spent in cooking and needlework. Miss
                        Rose was a musician, who played the organ at Center Church and was usually
                        the sympathetic accompanist at all concerts given by local talent. And, as
                        though not to be outdone, Miss Nan quietly exercised the pen conjointly with
                        the needle. Several editors in New York were quite familiar with the neat
                        backhand of a lady they had never seen who sent them from an unheard-of town
                        in Indiana the drollest paragraphs, the most amusing dialogues, and the
                        merriest of jingles. Now and then Nancy Bartlett's name was affixed
                        to an amusing skit in which various Montgomery people found their foibles
                        published to the world, though with a proper discretion, and so amiably that
                        no one could take offense. With the perversity of such communities, many
                        declared that Miss Rose was more talented than Miss Nan, and that she could
                        have written much better things than her sister if she had chosen. But what
                        could have been more ridiculous than any attempt to arouse rivalry between
                        sisters who dwelt together so contentedly, and who were the busiest and
                        happiest women in town!
                    The Bartlett girls were the best friends the college boys had. If one of
                        these ladies undertook, in the absence of a 
                        manservant, to drive the mower across their fifty feet of lawn, some
                        youngster invariably appeared to relieve her of this task. Or if wood or
                        coal were observed lying upon the walk in front of the Bartlett gate, it was
                        always a question whether the Sigma Chis or the Phi Gamma Deltas would see
                        the fuel first and hasten to conceal anything so monstrous, so revolting to
                        the soul of young Greeks, in the Bartlett cellar. Amid all their vocations
                        and avocations, the Bartletts moved tranquilly in an atmosphere of luxurious
                        leisure. They were never flustered; their employments were a kind of lark,
                        it seemed, never to be referred to except in the most jocular fashion. When
                        Rose had entrusted to the oven a wedding-cake or a pan of jumbles she would
                        repair to the piano for a ten-minute indulgence in Chopin. Similarly
                        indifferent to fate, Nan at intervals in the day drew a tablet and
                        fountain-pen from her sewing-table and recorded some whimsicality which she
                        had seemingly found embedded in the mesh of a shopping-bag she was
                        embellishing. And when, in due course, a funny-looking, canary-colored
                        envelope carried this fragment to the desk of some bored phlegmatic editor,
                        he would, as like as not, grin and scribble an order to the cashier for two
                        dollars (or some such munificent sum) and pin it to the stamped
                        "return" canary envelope, which would presently reach
                        Number 98 Buckeye Lane, Montgomery, Indiana.
                    Phil Kirkwood hardly remembered a time when Number 98 had not been a safe
                        port in the multitudinous squalls that beset her youth. The Bartletts were
                        wholly human, as witness their pantry and garretveritable magazines of
                        surprises! Miss Rose was a marvel at cutting out silhouettes; Miss Nan
                        would, with the slightest provocation, play bear or horse, crawling over the
                        floor with Phil perched on her back blowing a horn. It was no wonder that
                        Phil's vagrant steps turned instinctively toward Number 98. In the
                        beginning her father used to seek her there; and having by this means
                        learned the way, it was the most natural thing in the world for father and
                        daughter to visit the Bartletts together.  A
                        man whose wife divorces him is entitled to some social consolations, and if
                        tea and jam at the house of two maiden ladies of irreproachable character
                        satisfies him, the community should be satisfied also. The gossips had never
                        been able to decide which of the Bartlett girls was likelier to assume the
                        r$oCle of Phil's stepmother. There were those who favored Rose. As
                        Kirkwood played the 'cello, Rose to some observers seemed more
                        plausible by reason of her musical talent. Others believed that it would be
                        Nan, as Nan was "literary" and Kirkwood was a scholar,
                        suspected of "writing," though just what he wrote no one
                        was able to say. It had been said thousands of times that Amzi Montgomery
                        must eventually marry one of the Bartletts, but here, too, opinion was
                        divided as to which one would probably be so favored. Amzi had fluted in the
                        Schumann Quartette, devoted to chamber music, but his asthma had broken up
                        the club, and he now rarely essayed the instrument. Still, Amzi loved his
                        joke, and Nan was a joker. So it was clear that either Kirkwood or
                        Montgomery might with propriety marry either Rose or Nan. Whenever a drought
                        seemed imminent in local gossip, these oases bubbled.
                    Phil's aunts were not unaware of the high favor in which their niece
                        held the Bartletts; nor had they failed to speculate upon the chances of
                        Kirkwood's remarrying. They resented the idea, chiefly because such
                        action would cause a revival of the old scandal involving their sister,
                        which they were pardonably anxious to have forgotten. Then, too, it was
                        their solemn duty to keep their hands on Phil, who was a Montgomery and
                        entitled to their consideration and oversight, and if Kirkwood should
                        remarry, Phil would be relinquished to the care of a stepmother, a grievous
                        thought at all times.
                    On this rainy October evening, tea was dispatched in the gayest humor in the
                        little Bartlett dining-room. Rose and Phil disappeared in the kitchen to
                        "do" the dishes while Nan and Kirkwood communed in the
                        book-lined living-room.
                    "You've had a talking with Phil," said
                        Kirkwood.
                    
                    "Yes; she came in this morning, when Rose was out and I said several
                        things to her that I ought to have said long ago. It was n't easy
                        to say them. But it's time for her to sober down a little, though I
                        wish in my heart she could go on forever just as she is. It does
                        n't seem possible that she's a woman, with a future to
                        think about."
                    "Phil's future" murmured Kirkwood pensively.
                    "Your future and hers are bound up together; there's no
                        escaping that."
                    "I'm afraid that's so! There are a thousand things
                        I know should be done for her, but I don't grasp them. I seem
                        unable to get hold of anything these days."
                    He looked at his hands, as though wondering at their impotence. They were
                        bronzed and rough from the camp, but his sensitive nature was expressed in
                        them. The gray showed in his beard and hair. Where the short beard did not
                        hide his cheeks they were tanned. His blue serge suit had been freshly
                        pressed; a polka-dot scarf was neatly tied under the points of a white-wing
                        collar. He suggested an artist who had just returned from a painting trip in
                        the opena town man who was n't afraid of the sun. If an artist one
                        might have assumed that he was none too prosperous; his white cuffs were
                        perceptibly frayed. Nan Bartlett scrutinized him closely, and there came
                        into her eyes the look of one about to say something, long withheld and
                        difficult to say.
                    She was a small, fair woman, with a becoming roundness of figure. Her yellow
                        hair, parted evenly in the middle, curled prettily on her forehead. A blue
                        shirt-waist with a turnover collar and a ready-made skirt spoke for a severe
                        taste in dress. A gold-wire bracelet on her left wrist and a stickpin in her
                        four-in-hand tie were her only ornaments. She had a fashion of raising her
                        arm and shaking the bracelet back from her hand. When she did this, it was
                        to the accompaniment of a slight turning of the head to one side and a
                        dreamy look came into her large blue eyes. It was a pretty, graceful trick.
                        She did not hesitate now that her mind was made up, but spoke quickly and
                        crisply.
                    
                    "You don't work hard enough; you are not making your time
                        count. It is n't fair to Phil; it is n't fair to
                        yourself."
                    "That's true; I know it," he replied, meeting her
                        eyes quickly.
                    "And now's the time for you to change; Phil needs you.
                        Phil's going to need a lot of thingsmoney, for example. And
                        you've reached a time of life when it's now or
                        never."
                    The bracelet flashed back under her cuff. She looked at her wrist wonderingly
                        as if surprised that the trinket had disappeared; then she glanced at
                        Kirkwood, casually, as though she were in the habit of saying such things to
                        him, which was not, however, the fact.
                    He straightened himself and his hands clenched as though to do battle at her
                        behest.
                    "Mine's a wasted life; for years everything has seemed
                        futile. I'm glad you spoke to me. I need to be brought up
                        short."
                    Nan nodded. This was not a debatable question; undeniably he did need to be
                        brought up with a sharp turn. It was in her mind that perhaps she had said
                        enough; but she wished to make sure of it.
                    "Nobody can touch you at your best; it's your best that
                        you've got to put into the struggle. It must n't be said
                        of you that you neglect business, and even refuse cases; and they do say
                        that of you."
                    "I've grown careless and indifferent," he
                        confessed; "but it's time for me to wake up. I
                        can't see Phil heading for the poorhouse and that's where
                        we're going."
                    "No doubt of it!" she assented. "Phil's
                        aunts complain of you, and say that if you won't care for her you
                        ought to turn her over to them. That's funny, on one side, and on
                        the other it is n't. There's a good deal to support their
                        attitude. Phil's needs are those of a girl ready to meet the world,
                        and she will need money. And I've noticed that money is a shy
                        commodity; it does n't just come rolling uphill to
                        anybody's doorstep."
                    Kirkwood knew perfectly well the elusiveness of money; it  seemed less so now from Nan's way of
                        stating the fact. When one needed a dollar one should go and find it; this
                        was clearly Miss Nan's philosophy, and in her own affairs he knew
                        that she had demonstrated its efficacy.
                    He lowered his voice as though about to touch upon a matter even more
                        confidential than any that had engaged their attention. It was evidently
                        something wholly pleasant that he wished to speak of; his eye brightened and
                        his face flushed slightly. The look he bent upon her was of unmistakable
                        liking.
                    "The Gray Knight of Picardy' is booming. I saw a stack of
                        him at Crosby's to-day: half a dozen people have asked me if I read
                        it. It was put out so late in the spring that it's astonishing how
                        it's carried through the summer. Some of the papers are just
                        reviewing itand the more deliberate journals are praising it. And when we
                        were speaking of money matters a bit ago, I clean forgot that I have a check
                        from the publisher that I'm going to hand you now."
                    He drew from his pocket a draft which she took eagerly and glanced at.
                    It was for two thousand dollars, payable to Nancy Bartlett. Nan slipped it
                        quickly into the drawer of her sewing-table. As she drew her hand away, he
                        caught and held it an instant. Nan did not look at him as she quietly freed
                        herself. She ignored the act, though her cheek flushed scarlet. She
                        minimized the incident by shaking down her bracelet.
                    "Half of that is yours," she said. "I will deposit
                        it tomorrow and give you my check. You ought to have made the contract in
                        your own name, but I never thought they would take itmuch less that it would
                        sell, or I should have insisted in the beginning."
                    "Well, I had faith in your three quarters of the work; mine is the
                        poorest part of it."
                    "Your half made it possible,the form and the planning. I never could
                        have done a long-sustained thing like that; I'm a paragrapher,
                        that's all."
                    "You're a humorist of a high order," he said
                        warmly.  "It's the huge joke
                        of the thing that is making people like it. Let me see, the publisher is
                        advertising a quotation from some paper that has called it the funniest book
                        in ten years."
                    "That's a stock phrase of the critics," said Nan;
                        "they merely change the title of the book from year to year. But
                        it's been fun doing a book that way and putting it out anonymously.
                        Judge Walters spoke to me of it yesterday; said he had stayed up all night
                        to finish it."
                    "It's going to take more ingenuity than I possess to hide
                        the authorship; that's why I want you to carry the burden. The
                        publisher says the public demand to know who Merlin Shepperd is. And three
                        magazines want a short story by the author of "The Gray Knight of
                        Picardy." I'll send you the letters. That enterprising
                        Phil has an uncomfortable habit of running through my desk and I'm
                        likely to forget to lock up these things. She thought I was working on a
                        brief all last winter when I was doing my part of the "Gray
                        Knight." But I turn the partnership over to you nowwith all the
                        assets and liabilities and the firm name and style. You are Merlin Shepperd
                        and I am Kirkwood, attorney and counselor at law, over Bernstein's.
                        You see," he added, smiling, "your lecture led right up to
                        that. No more literary ventures for me!"
                    "Well, I'd forgotten the "Gray Knight"
                        for the moment; but in spite of him I believe you had better stick to the
                        law."
                    "There's this, Nan," he said earnestly, looking at
                        her with an intentness that caused her to move uneasily; "it would
                        seem quite natural for a partnership like this to be extended further. This
                        world would be a pretty bleak place without you. You know and understand
                        that. And there is Phil; Phil needs you just as I do. I mean to start afresh
                        at the law; I mean to make myself count. And I need you."
                    He rose and looked down at her. It was as though by this act he presented
                        himself as a rehabilitated Thomas Kirkwood; a man ready to grapple with the
                        world afresh for her  sake. He bent over and
                        touched lightly her hands clasped quietly upon her knee.
                    "Dear Nan: I love you, Nan," he said softly, and stepped
                        back, waiting for her to speak.
                    She raised her head and their eyes met.
                    "Tom," she said, "you are the dearest of men; but
                        that is not for you and me. It will never be for you and me. And please,
                        Tom, because you are the finest of men, never speak of this again. You will
                        promise, won't you?"
                    "No," he said, shaking his head slowly; "I will
                        not promise. You have reasons and I think I know what they are. I want to
                        talk to you soon, for this has been in my heart a long time. I meant to
                        speak to you last spring. But now the need is greater. I not only need you,
                        but Phil needs you."
                    She smiled at the mention of Phil.
                    "That's a poor argument. Phil really does n't need
                        any one but you. I should be afraid of spoiling dear, splendid
                        Phil."
                    It was upon this that Rose and Phil came in from the kitchen. Rose was taller
                        than her sister, a slender, handsome woman, with an air of distinction which
                        dishwashing in no wise abated. She was one of those American women who wear
                        an apron like a vestmentwho, the vestis domestica flung
                        aside, adorn the parlor as charmingly as they grace the kitchen.
                    Phil began to whistle a tune, which Rose tried to identify for her by
                        striking the chords.
                    "What are you two talking about?" asked Phil, turning from
                        the piano.
                    "Discussing the origin of the pyramids," replied Nan,
                        rising. "You and Rose must have settled something in all the time
                        you took to the dishes. It was a noisy session, too.
                    You must have been playing drop the teacup."
                    Phil clasped her hands dramatically, reciting:
                    
                        "A moment then,
                        She poised upon the dishpan's utmost verge
                        The heirloom teapot old, with flowers bedight.
                        And with a cry"
                    
                    
                    She paused, feigning forgetfulness. Her father rose quickly and caught up the
                        imaginary fragment:
                    
                        "And with a cry
                        As when some greedy wight, on porridge keen,
                        Gulps it, and bawleth loud to find it hot,
                        Screams for the cook and tuggeth at his sword"
                    
                    "Familiar," observed Rose dreamily from the piano.
                        "Is it "Pelleas and Etarre" or "The
                        Passing of Arthur"?"
                    "Nope. "The Bold Buccaneer," by the Honest Iceman
                        of Mazoopa," answered Phil.
                    "And here he is now," said Nan as the front door boomed and
                        rattled.
                    There was no bell at the Bartletts": but from the door hung a
                        bass-drumstick, with which visitors were expected to thump. This had been a
                        part of the equipment of a local band that had retired from business. In the
                        dispersion of its instruments the drum had reached a second-hand store. Nan,
                        with a keen eye for such chances, had bought and dismantled the drum, and
                        used the frame as a stockade for fresh chirpers from her incubator. The
                        drumstick seemed to have been predestined of all time to serve as a
                        knocker.
                    "It's Amy. I told him to come," said Phil.
                    Her father's face fell almost imperceptibly. The company was
                        complete as it was and much as he liked Amzi he resented his appearance at
                        this hour. Rose went to the door.
                    "It may be Judge Walters. He's been trying to get over for
                        some time to talk about that new book on hypnotism," said Nan.
                    It proved, however, to be Amzi. They heard him telling Rose in the entry that
                        he was just passing and thought he would drop in.
                    "That will do for that, Amy," called Phil. "You
                        told me you were coming."
                    "I told you nothing of the kind!" blustered Amzi.
                    "Then, sir, you did n't; you did
                            not!"
                    
                    Amzi glared at them all fiercely. His cherubic countenance  was so benevolent, the kind eyes behind his
                        spectacles so completely annulled his ferocity, that his assumed fierceness
                        was absurd.
                    He addressed them all by their first names, and drew out a cigar. Kirkwood
                        was smoking his pipe. Phil held a match for her uncle and placed a copper
                        ash-tray on the table at his elbow. Rose continued her search for a piece of
                        music, and Nan curled herself on the corner of a davenport that occupied one
                        side of the room under the open bookshelves.
                    "This looks like a full session; first we've had for some
                        time," remarked Amzi. "Been playing, Rose?"
                    "No; Phil's trying to remember a tune. Whistle it,
                        Phil." Phil whistled it, her eyes twinkling.
                    "Sounds like a dead march done in ragtime," suggested Nan,
                        whose ear was said to be faulty.
                    "All the great masters will be done over pretty soon by the
                        raggists," declared Phil.
                    "Spoken like the Philistine you are not, Phil," said
                        Kirkwood. & "What you were trying to whistle is the
                        "Lucia Sextette" upside down. Rose, let's have
                        the "Mozart Minuet" we used to play. We have n't
                        had it for moons."
                    She played it, Phil turning the music. Then Kirkwood was reminded of the
                        existence of his 'cello. Amzi watched him tuning it, noted the
                        operation restlessly, and then rose demanding:
                    "Nan, where's my flute? Seems to me I left it here the last
                        time we played."
                    This was a joke. It had been in the house at least six years. Phil whistled a
                        few bars from a current light opera, and pretended to be absorbed in an old
                        etching of Beethoven that hung over the piano. She glanced covertly at her
                        uncle, who knew perfectly well that Phil was laughing at him. Nan,
                        meanwhile, produced the flute. It was in this fashion that the trio was
                        usually organized.
                    "Bad night for asthma, but let's tackle some of the good
                        old ones," said Amzi.
                    This, too, was part of a familiar formula, and Rose found  the music. Soon Amzi's cheeks were
                        puffing with the exertion of fluting the "Minuet," while
                        Kirkwood bent to the 'cello. Nan and Phil became an attentive
                        audience on the davenport, as often before. When Amzi dropped out (as he
                        always did), Phil piped in with her whistle, and that, too, was the usual
                        procedure. She whistled a fair imitation of the flute; she had a
                        "good ear"; Rose said her "ear" was too
                        good, and that this explained her impatience of systematic musical
                        instruction. Amzi abused the weather and incidentally the flute; they
                        essayed the Bach-Gounod "Ave Maria" and the
                        "Tr$aumerei," with like failure on Amzi's part.
                        Then Rose played, number after number, Beethoven, Schumann, Chopin, without
                        pause. It was clear that the woman loved her music; that it meant a very
                        great deal to her. Its significance was in the fine lines of her face,
                        beautifully grave, but lighting wonderfully through passages that spoke to
                        her with special meaning. Her profile was toward Kirkwood. He had, indeed,
                        taken a seat that gave him a particular view that he fancied and his eyes
                        wandered from her hands to her lovely, highbred face. No one spoke between
                        the numbers, or until Rose, sitting quiet a moment at the end, while the
                        last chord died away, found her own particular seat by the white wooden
                        mantel.
                    "I guess those chaps knew their business," observed
                        Amzi.
                    "And I guess you know yours, Rose. I don't know that you
                        ever brought out that nocturne quite so well before. Eh, Tom?"
                    Kirkwood agreed with him. Rose had surpassed herself, in the opinion of the
                        lawyer. Both men found pleasure in paying tribute to her talents. Amzi
                        turned to Nan, who nodded acquiescence. The banker really loved music, and
                        slipped away several times every winter to Chicago, to hear concerts or the
                        opera. On occasions he had taken Kirkwood and Phil and they had made a great
                        lark of it.
                    "What's this rumor about the Sycamore Traction being in
                        trouble?" asked Nan.
                    Amzi rubbed his head. He had not come to the Bartletts'  to discuss business, and the topic was not,
                        moreover, one that interested him at the moment.
                    "There are a lot of papers on your desk about that, daddy,"
                        Phil remarked. "But I suppose those are office
                        secrets."
                    There was, indeed, a telegram from a New York lawyer asking why Kirkwood had
                        not replied to a certain letter. He glanced at her quickly, apparently
                        disturbed that the matter had been mentioned. Her father's
                        inattention to the letter of the New York lawyer had, independently of Nan
                        Bartlett's reference to the traction company, caused Phil to make
                        certain resolutions touching both her father and herself.
                    "I've got my hand on that, Phil. I've
                        answered."
                    Phil saw that the subject of this correspondence, whose import she had
                        scarcely grasped, was not to be brought into the conversation. She turned
                        away as Amzi addressed her father in a low tone.
                    "Tom, as I remember, you made a report on that scheme before the
                        bonds were sold. Do you mind telling me whether that was for the same crowd
                        that finally took it up?"
                    "Yes; but they cut down the amount they undertook to float. Sam
                        Holton sold a lot of the bonds along the line; a good many of them are held
                        right here in this county."
                    "They are, indeed. It seemed a plausible thing for the home folks to
                        own the securities of a company that was going to do so much for the town;
                        they pulled that string hard. It was a scheme to draw the coin out of the
                        old stocking under the fireplace. If it was good for widows and orphans out
                        in Seattle and Bangor, why was n't it good for 'em at
                        home? And it is good for the people at home if
                        it's played straight. I've had an idea that these
                        cross-country trolleys will have about the same history the steam roads
                        had,a good many of 'em will bust and the original investors will
                        see their securities shrink; and there will be smash-ups and shake-downs and
                        then in time the lines will pay. Just what's the trouble here, Tom,
                        if you don't mind?"
                    "There's an apprehension that the November interest  won't be paid. The company's
                        had some hard lucka wreck that's piled up a lot of damage suits,
                        for one thing; and in one or two counties the commissioners are trying to
                        make them pay for new bridgesa question of the interpretation of the
                        franchise. I gave warning of that possibility."
                    "Thunder! I hope it won't come to the worst. I did
                        n't know you were keeping track of it."
                    "One of my old classmates at Williams is counsel for the Desbrosses
                        Trust and Guaranty Company which is the trustee for the bondholders. I
                        passed on the mortgage for them as to its local aspects. I'm going
                        over to Indianapolis to meet him in a few days to determine what to do in
                        event the interest is defaulted. The management has been unsatisfactory, and
                        after five years the replacements are running ahead of the
                        estimates."
                    "I wonder" began Amzi; then he paused and rubbed his scalp.
                        "I suppose my neighbor Bill is already out from
                        under."
                    "I don't know," said Kirkwood soberly.
                        "It was Sam who was the chief promoter."
                    "Sam was a smooth proposition. Thunder! I lost money when Sam died.
                        I'd made a bet with myself that they'd pin something on
                        him before he got through, but he died just out of spite to make me lose.
                        Thunder! Bill makes strong statements."
                    The strength of the statements made by the First National Bank did not,
                        however, seem to disturb Amzi. What he had learned from Kirkwood had not
                        been in the nature of fresh information, but it had confirmed certain
                        suspicions touching the Sycamore Traction Company. The Bartletts and Phil
                        were talking quietly in a corner. Amzi rose and pulled down his percale
                        waistcoat and buttoned the top button of his cutaway coat, in which he
                        looked very much like a fat robin. He advanced toward the group in the
                        corner.
                    "Nan," he said, "you did n't buy a
                        Sycamore bond that time I told you not to, did you?"
                    
                    Rose beat time for her sister mockingly, and they answered in singsong.
                    "We did not! We did not! But," Nan added, dropping her
                        hands to her sides tragically, "but if we had, oh,
                        sir!"
                    "If you had I should have bought it of you at a premium.
                        It's hard work being a banker for women: they all want ten per cent
                        a month."
                    "Paul Fosdick's things were all guaranteed ten per cent a
                        year," remarked Rose.
                    They all waited for the explosion that must follow the mention of this
                        particular brother-in-law. Nowhere else in town would any one have dared to
                        bring Fosdick, who was believed to be his pet abomination, into a
                        conversation. Even in Hastings he found a king of joy; the presence of a
                        retired Hamlet among the foliage of the family tree was funny now that he
                        had got used to it; and Amzi had a sense of humor. This little company
                        expected him to explode and he must not disappoint them. The color mounted
                        to his bald dome and his eyes bulged.
                    "Thunder! Rose, play that jiggly funeral march of a
                        marionette!"
                    "I refuse," said Rose, spreading her skirts on the divan,
                        "to do anything so cruel!"
                    "And besides," said Nan, "I bought a share of
                        stock in his brickyard."
                    "Nan Bartlett," said Amzi, planting himself before her,
                        "I will give you a peck of parsnips for that share."
                    "Could n't take advantage of you, Amzi; and we never eat
                        parsnips. They're bad for the complexion."
                    "Thunder!" he snorted contemptously.
                    "Thunder" was his favorite, almost his only, expletive, but
                        his thunder was only a single boom without reverberations. His four auditors
                        understood him perfectly, however. Fosdick was always
                        "starting" something. He had even attempted to organize a
                        new cemetery association, which, as Greenlawn was commodious, and as any
                        amount of land adjacent made possible its indefinite expansion, Amzi
                        regarded  as an absurd and unholy project. With
                        Fosdick, Amzi had no business relations of any kind. He belonged to the
                        Commercial Club, to be sure, but this was a concession on his part; he never
                        attended any of its meetings. And he had, it was said, requested his
                        enterprising brother-in-law to withdraw his patronage from the Montgomery
                        Bank for reasons never wholly clear to the curious. Fosdick had talked about
                        it in bitterness of spirit; Amzi had not. Amzi never talked of his business.
                        He rarely lost a customer; and if a citizen transferred his account to the
                        First or the Citizens' National, it was assumed that Amzi no longer
                        cared particularly to have that individual on his ledgers. Such a transfer
                        aroused in cautious minds a degree of suspicion, for horses rarely died in
                        Amzi's stable.
                    "Thunder! It 's time to go home. Guess the rain's
                        stopped."
                    Amzi set out for home with the Kirkwoods. He was in capital spirits, and kept
                        up a steady give and take with Phil. Just before reaching his own gate they
                        passed Kirkwood's former home. Amzi's sisters persistently
                        demanded that something be done about the abandoned house, which, with its
                        neglected garden, was a mournful advertisement of their sister's
                        ill-doings. It had been a shock to them to discover, a few years after her
                        flight, that it had passed from her to Amzi and from him to Kirkwood. The
                        consideration had been adequate; the county records told the story plainly.
                        There was, of course, no reason why Lois should continue to own a house for
                        which she had no use; but there was less reason why her former husband
                        should acquire the property merely, as it seemed, from motives of sentiment.
                        Every weed in the gardenand the crop was abundantcalled attention to the
                        blot on the Montgomery 'scutcheon. And if Kirkwood was silly enough
                        to cling to the old home, while living in a rented house in a less agreeable
                        neighborhood, there was no reason why he should refuse to lease it and
                        devote the income to Phil's upbringing.
                    It was not a cheerful item of the urban landscape and the  sorrow of Amzi's sisters that it
                        should remain dolefully at their own thresholds was pardonable. The moon
                        looked down at it soberly through dispersing clouds as though grieved by its
                        disrepair. The venerable forest trees that gave distinction to the
                        "old Montgomery place" had shaken their leaves upon this
                        particular part and parcel of the elder Amzi's acres, and piled
                        them upon the veranda steps. The gate, fastened to the post by a chain and
                        padlock, sagged badly, and bulged upon the public walk.
                    Amzi stopped and pushed it back, causing the chain to rattle dolorously.
                        Kirkwood watched him indifferently. Phil lent her uncle a hand. Amzi,
                        panting from his efforts, ejaculated: "Thunder!" and a
                        moment later they bade each other good-night under the gaslamp at his own
                        gate.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IV
                    A TRANSACTION IN APPLES
                    PHIL was not visible the next morning when at seven
                        o'clock Kirkwood glanced about the house for her. She had indulged
                        herself in the matter of rising since the high-school bell no longer
                        regulated her habits, and her father had hardly expected to see her. There
                        was no morning newspaper to readhe took a Chicago daily at his officeand he
                        opened the windows and doors to admit the air. Domestic affairs interested
                        Thomas Kirkwood little. During the years in which Phil was passed from aunt
                        to aunt he had lived at the Morton House, and after establishing the new
                        home that he might have her with him, one or another of the aunts had
                        supervised his household, and at times, to his discomfiture, all had taken a
                        hand at it.
                    This rented cottage where the Kirkwoods lived was in the least fashionable
                        part of Main Street, beyond the commercial district and near the railroad.
                        Trains thundered through a cut not far from the rear fence, and the cars of
                        the Sycamore Traction Company rumbled by at intervals. The cottage was old
                        but comfortable, and it was remarked that Kirkwood had probably chosen it
                        for the reason that he could go to and from his office without passing his
                        abandoned home. Phil liked living on Main Street. Her devotion to that
                        thoroughfare had been a source of great pain to her aunts. Even as her Uncle
                        Amzi absorbed local color from the steps of his bank, Phil was an alert
                        agent in the field, on nodding terms with the motormen of the interurban
                        cars, and with the jehus, who, cigarette in mouth and hat tipped on one
                        side, drove the village hacks. Captain Joshua Wilson, who had been recorder
                        of his county continuously since he lost a leg at Missionary Ridge, and who
                        wrote a poem every year  for the reunion of his
                        regiment, had written certain lines for the "Evening Star"
                        in which "P. K." was addressed as the Diana of Main
                        Street. As to the soundness of his mythology there might be debate, but
                        there was no question as to Phil's thorough identification with
                        Main Street, all the way from her father's house, past the
                        court-house, shops, and banks, out to the old Sugar Creek Bridge where the
                        town became country without any warning whatever.
                    It was Judge Walters who first called her "Otherwise
                        Phyllis." This was in Phil's school days before she passed
                        from her aunts' custody. The judge delighted in Phil's
                        battles with the aunts. Whenever his wife began to recount a day's
                        occurrences at the supper-table, and the recital opened promisingly, it was
                        the judge's habit to cut short her prefaces with,
                        "Otherwise Phyllis" and bid her hurry on to the
                        catastrophe, sparing no tragic detail.
                    Kirkwood had never, from the day his wife left him, offered himself in the
                        market-place as an object of sympathy. He had been a man of reserves at all
                        times, and the sudden termination of his married life had merely driven him
                        in further upon himself. If he was broken-hearted, the fragments were well
                        hidden. He felt that he was a failure, and he saw men of less ability
                        passing him in the race. Now and then he had roused himself under stress and
                        demonstrated his unusual gifts by striking successes; but after one of these
                        spurts he would relapse into an indifference to which he seemed increasingly
                        ready to yield.
                    He had risen this morning with a new resolution, attributable to his talk
                        with Nan Bartlett the night before. Even if he did not care for himself,
                        there was always Phil to consider. And Phil was very much to consider. She
                        had decided for herself that the high school had given her all the education
                        she needed. Kirkwood had weighed the matter carefully and decided that she
                        would not profit greatly by a college coursea decision which Phil had
                        stoutly supported. Her aunts favored a year at a finishing school to tone
                        down her rough edges, but having laid their plan before their brother  Amzi that gentleman had sniffed at it. What
                        was the use of spoiling Phil? he demanded. "Thunder!" And
                        there was no reason in the world why Phil should be spoiled.
                    Phil was not, in any view of the case, an ignorant person. She knew a great
                        many things that were not embraced in the high-school curriculum. Her father
                        harbored an old-fashioned love of the poets; which is not merely to say that
                        at some time in his life he had run through them, but that he read poetry as
                        one ordinarily reads novels, quite naturally and without shame. Something of
                        his own love of poetry had passed to his daughter. He had so trained her
                        that literature meant to Phil not printed pages, but veritable nature and
                        life. Books were a matter of course, to be taken up and put down as the
                        reader pleased, and nothing to grow priggish about. She had caught from him
                        an old habit, formed in his undergraduate days, of a light, whimsical use of
                        historical and literary allusions. She entered zestfully into the spirit of
                        this kind of fooling; and, to his surprise, she had developed an astonishing
                        knack of imitation and parody. Sometimes Kirkwood without preluding, would
                        utter a line for Phil to cap; they even composed sonnets in this antiphonal
                        fashion and pronounced them superior to the average magazine product. Phil
                        had not only learned much from her father, but she had absorbed a great deal
                        of lore at the Bartletts', where everything bookish was vitalized
                        and humanized.
                    Kirkwood, hearing the creak of the swinging door between the pantry and
                        dining-room,a familiar breakfast signal, chose with care a volume of Bagehot
                        and carried it to the table which had been set, he imagined, by the
                        "girl" selected by his sisters-in-law to carry on his
                        establishment during the winter.
                    He helped himself to grapes, and was eating with his eye on a page of Bagehot
                        when the door swung again and Phil piped a cheerful good-morning. She was an
                        aproned young Phil and her face was flushed from recent proximity to the
                        range. She described her entrance in lines she had fashioned for the
                        purpose:
                    
                    
                        "She came
                        While yet the jocund day was young, and fetched
                        In hands but lightly singed upon the stove
                        The coffee-pot, with muddy contents filled"
                    
                    Kirkwood, concealing his surprise at seeing her, took his cue:
                    
                        "And he, toying meanwhile with fruitage of the vine,
                        To-wit the mellow grape, scarce breathed to see
                        The nut-brown maid, and gasped, "Where is the
                            cook?"
                    
                    "Oh, the cook has went, to come down to the plain prose of it,
                        daddy. There was one here yesterday, but one's dynastic aunts had
                        picked her for her powers of observation and ready communication, so I fired
                        her hence. And with that careless grace which I hope you find becoming in me
                        I decided to run the shop all by my lonesome for a while. I though
                        I'd start with breakfast so that any poisons that may creep into
                        the victuals will have time to work while the drug-stores are open. How long
                        do you cook an egg, is it two minutes or two weeks?"
                    "This will never do," said Kirkwood gravely, watching her
                        pour the coffee. "You should n't have discharged one cook
                        until you had another."
                    "Tut! There's not enough to do in this house for two
                        able-bodied womenand I'm one! Rose taught me how to make coffee
                        yesterday, and toast and eggs are easy. Just look at that coffee! Real
                        amber? It's an improvement for looks on what you've been
                        brewing for yourself in camp. And I've been watching your winning
                        ways with the camp frying-pan. Rose gave me a cook-book that is full of
                        perfectly adorable ideas. Come up for lunch and I'll show you some
                        real creations."
                    She slipped away into the kitchen and reappeared with toast and boiled eggs.
                        She had cooked the eggs by the watch as Rose had instructed her. Her father
                        relaxed the severity of his countenance to commend them. But he did not like
                        Phil in this new r$oCle. The casting forth of the cook provided by the aunts
                        would be regarded as an offense not lightly to 
                        be passed by those ladies; but Phil had never appeared so wholly
                        self-possessed. She poured coffee for herself, diluted it with hot water,
                        buttered a slice of toast with composure, tasted it and complained that the
                        grocer had sent rancid butter.
                    Kirkwood pushed aside his Bagehot. He did not know just how to deal with a
                        daughter who, without the slightest warning, dispatched her cook and took
                        upon herself the burden of the household. The coffee was to his liking; it
                        was indubitably better than he had been used to; but the thing would not do.
                        He must show Phil the error of her ways and lose no time about it.
                    "I'm sorry you did n't like the girl they sent
                        you; but you must find another. There's no reason, of course, why
                        you should n't choose for yourself; but it's not easy to
                        find help in a town like this. I can't have you doing the
                        housework. That must be understood, Phil."
                    "You're not having me; I'm having me, which is a
                        very different thing. If you had driven me into the kitchen with loud,
                        furious words, I should have rebelledscreamed, and made a terrible scene.
                        But you did nothing of the kind. It happened in this wise. Glancing up quite
                        by chance, as it were, you beheld me pouring coffee of my own brewing.
                        Fatherly pride extinguished any feeling of shock or chagrin. You have
                        smothered any class feeling that may linger in your aristocratic soul and
                        are making a good bluff at enjoying the eating of your breakfast with the
                        lady who cooked it. Could anything be more beautiful? The ayes seem to have
                        it; the ayes have it, as I used to be fond of saying when I was boss of the
                        Philomathean. I wish now I'd taken the domestic science course more
                        seriously and spent less time in the gymnasium. But thus it is we live and
                        learn."
                    Phil's tone made rebuke difficult. He loved her foolishness just as
                        her Uncle Amzi didjust as every one did except her aunts, for whom the
                        affected stiltedness of her speech was merely a part of her general
                        deplorable unconventionality.
                    
                    "Well, Phil, the idea of your cooking the meals for this
                        establishment is n't debatable. You're overruled and the
                        debate closed."
                    "Still harping on my daughter's cooking! Please, in current
                        idiom, cut it out. Try marmalade on that too, too perfect
                        toast."
                    He accepted marmalade and returned to the attack.
                    "You see, Phil, everything's different now. You've
                        got to wake up to your social responsibilities."
                    "And be a perfect lady? I know. Amy got me into the back room of the
                        bank yesterday and told me. One's aunts had bullied the old dear
                        into springing the sad intelligence. Then Nan had already given me a
                        session. And now you, too, Brutus, are about to lay the matter before me in
                        a few crisp sentences. But why all this assumption that I'm not a
                        real lady? There's a good deal of loose thinking on that subject,
                        to use one of your own best phrases. If there is nothing more before the
                        house"
                    Phil had been studiously stuccoing her toast with marmalade, and she bit into
                        it before looking at her father.
                    "You know perfectly well what I mean, Phil. This is a serious time
                        in your life. You've got to adapt yourself to the ways of the
                        worldthe world of convention. You must consider yourself as a member of
                        society. It's only in a limited sense that we can be
                        individualists. And I can't have my daughter weighed down with such
                        cares as these you threaten to assume. It would hurt me more than I can tell
                        you if I believed it necessary. But it isn't necessary. None the
                        less I know perfectly well that if it were necessary you would be equal to
                        ityou are equal to anything you undertake. But I can't have you
                        wasting yourself on such things."
                    "Daddy dear, this is getting terribly philosophical. Let us be
                        really serious for a little bit. You know, we have n't much money,
                        have we? Not very much, anyhow."
                    She had broached the matter as delicately as possible. It had been in her
                        mind that she must speak to her father  about
                        their affairs, but she had not thought the opportunity would offer so
                        quickly. It was hard to say to him that she had undertaken to manage the
                        housekeeping as an economical measure; that she knew he owed money that he
                        had no immediate prospect of paying.
                    The hurt look that she had seen in his eyes sometimes was heartbreaking. When
                        Phil was younger, she used to ask about her mother, but later she had never
                        referred to her. Her aunts had, after their fashion, not been above using
                        her mother to point a moral. In their lack of appreciation of the keenness
                        of the child's intitutions or her eager imagination, they had
                        established in her a belief that her mother was a bad woman: the facts spoke
                        for themselves. And having had a bad mother it was incumbent upon Phil to
                        choose her path with a particular care and to walk in it circumspectly.
                    Phil had, by this time, considered the case from the changing viewpoints
                        natural to the young mind. In that rosy light through which a girl of
                        fifteen is apt to view life,the first realizations of sex, the age of the
                        first novels,Phil had not been free from the contemplation of her mother as
                        a romantic figure. For a woman to forsake a husband for a lover was not
                        without precedents. Phil had dreamed over this a good deal, in an impersonal
                        sort of way, and the unknown mother had been glorified in scenes of
                        renunciation, following nobly the high call of a greater love. By a swift
                        transition her father assumed the sympathetic r$oCle in the domestic drama.
                        She chanced upon novels in which the spurned husband was exalted to the
                        shame of the dishonorable wife. Her father fitted well into this picture.
                        She even added herself to the dramatis personae, not
                        without a sense of her value in the scene. But these were only passing
                        phases. There was no morbid strain in Phil. Her father was the best of
                        companions, and she was quick to recognize his fineness and gentleness and
                        to appreciate his cultivation with its background of solid learning.
                    Phil's question startled her father. Money had never been  discussed in the household, and this new
                        gravity in his daughter's eyes troubled him. Phil's needs
                        had been few; her demands had burdened him little. Her aunts had bought her
                        clothes and sent him the bills. When he gave her money to spend, he never
                        asked for an accounting, though he was often amused by the uses to which she
                        put it; and sometimes he had been touched by her gifts at Christmas or on
                        his birthdays, which ranged from a reckless investment in gay neckties to a
                        set of some author whose definitive edition he had covetedShelley or Landor
                        or Matthew Arnold. No; money was not a subject that had interested Phil, and
                        her father found her direct question disconcerting.
                    "No, Phil. We are not richfar from it. It's hardly possible
                        for a lawyer to grow rich in a town like this. But I have n't been
                        doing as well as I could lately. I've got to do better and I must
                        be about it."
                    He drew himself up in his chair and glanced at his watch. It had stopped, and
                        as the court-house clock boomed eight he set it. It was quite like him to
                        allow his watch to run down.
                    "I was in your office yesterday, daddy, and I hope you
                        won't mind, but I was straightening your desk and I could
                        n't help seeing some old bills. Several of them had been there a
                        long time. My graduating dress has n't been paid for and some
                        things like that. We must economize until those bills are paid. And I was
                        thinking that you ought to get more money out of the building. Rents are
                        going up on Main Street. I heard Paul Fosdick say so. You ought to raise the
                        clothing store rent right away. I don't know of any easier way of
                        getting money," she added drolly, "than by wringing it
                        from the tenants."
                    She laughed, to make it easier for him.
                    "Yes; that's one way of doing it; only Bernstein had a long
                        lease that expiresI'm not sure when it does expire" he
                        concluded, and the color deepened in his dark cheeks. It was his business to
                        know when the lease on the property expired, and as though reminded by this
                        lapse of  similar failures in other directions,
                        he drew out his watch again and made sure that he had wound it.
                    "It expires," said Phil, "on the last day of this
                        next December. I looked it up yesterday afternoon in that little memorandum
                        book you keep in your desk."
                    "I guess that's right. I'm glad you mentioned it.
                        I'll see Bernstein right away and ask him if he wants to renew the
                        lease. I suppose I ought to coax a higher rent out of him, but he's
                        been there a long time."
                    "Oh, he'll stand another fifty and be glad of it. His sign
                        is on all the fences in the country"Bernstein'sThe Same
                        Old Place." It would cost him some money to change that. And you
                        could cheer him up by painting the front of the building. The interurban is
                        bringing a lot more business to Montgomery. I've been thinking we
                        ought to do something about that third floor room where the photograph shop
                        used to be. Bernstein has an upstairs room in the next building where his
                        tailor imparts that final deft touch that adjusts readymade garments to the
                        most difficult figure. It would be handier for him to conduct the sartorial
                        transformations in the chamber over his own gate, would n't it? And
                        I don't think we need wait for that photographer to come back from
                        the penitentiary or wherever he languisheth."
                    She was minimizing the significance of these suggestions a significance that
                        lay, she knew, in the fact of their coming from herby lapsing into the
                        absurdities with which she embellished her familiar talk. She pronounced
                        "languisheth" with a prolongation of the last syllable
                        that gave to it a characteristic touch of mockery.
                    "I'd been hoping he'd show up again and cart off
                        his rubbish. But we've had some fun out of the gallery. If we rent
                        it to Bernstein for his retouching mysteries, we shan't have any
                        place to develop our negatives."
                    "That's so; but maybe we can retouch Bernstein for enough
                        extra to get them done for us. It's the ducats, my llord, that move
                        my fancy. The Bernsteins have grown almost disagreeably rich at the same old
                        stand and it's about  time the
                        Kirkwoods were thrusting their talons into the treasure chest."
                    Sounds of disaster in the kitchen caused Phil to rise hastily and disappear
                        through the swing doors. She returned calmly a moment later.
                    "Only the tea-kettle playing at being a geyser. When we get rich
                        I'm going to have a gas range. They say it's the only way
                        to cook and cook and be a lady still."
                    "That brings us back to cooking" began her father.
                    "Not at all, daddy. The subject is dismissed forever. I'm
                        going to have that Ethiop who does chores for us clean up the photograph
                        gallery. I'll be down after while, to see how it
                        looks."
                    She bade him good-bye at the front door, and went whistling about the further
                        business of the morning. The sky was blue and the air warmed as the sun
                        climbed into the heavens. Phil felt that she had conveyed to her father a
                        sense of their imperative needs without wounding him. She was resolved to
                        help him if she could. Her pride had been pricked by her Uncle
                        Amzi's proffered aid, which she had carefully avoided mentioning to
                        her father. She knew that it would have hurt him, and she had reasoned, much
                        in the fashion of Nan Bartlett, that her father owed it to himself to
                        exercise his unquestioned gifts to re$eUstablish himself in his profession.
                        As he left her and walked toward the street, she was aware that he strode
                        away more quickly than was his wont.
                    Phil's morning was not eventless. The telephone jingled three times,
                        as three aunts demanded to know why she had parted with the maid-of-all-work
                        they had installed in the Kirkwood kitchen. Aunt Josie was censorious and
                        Aunt Fanny mildly remonstrative; Aunt Kate sought light as to the reason for
                        the cook's early passing, as she was anxious to try her herself.
                        Phil disposed of these calls with entire good humor. Then a senior, between
                        lectures at the college, asked her if she would go driving with him Sunday
                        afternoon. The senior, in the security of his fraternity house, prolonged
                        the  conversation. As this was Thursday and
                        there was never any imperative need in Montgomery for making engagements so
                        far ahead, the senior was exercising unjustifiable precaution. Phil declined
                        the invitation. Her aunts had repeatedly warned her against college boys. A
                        daughter of the house of Montgomery was not to waste herself upon students,
                        a lawless body of whom no one knew anything in particular save that they
                        seized every opportunity to murder sleep for reputable citizens.
                    Phil employed the telephone to order of the grocer and butcher, made beds,
                        swept rooms, and sat down with a new magazine, dropped at the door by the
                        postman, to run her eyes over the pictures. One or two things she was sure
                        her father would like; a sketch of Massenet she must call to Rose
                        Bartlett's attention. She planned luncheon and began the peeling of
                        potatoes with a page of Keats propped on the table beside hera trick she had
                        learned at the Bartletts'. "Endymion" need suffer
                        nothing from proximity to potatoes, though it should be said that
                        Phil's paring would have distressed a frugal housekeeper.
                    While thus employed a step sounded on the brick walk, and a young man knocked
                        at the open door without glancing in. He chewed a straw as he observed the
                        chimneys of the adjoining house, and Phil, sitting by the kitchen table,
                        paused in her paring to make sure of his identity. Then she placed her pan
                        of potatoes on the table and crossed quickly to the door.
                    "Good-morning, madam. Would you like"
                    He extended two apples as samples. Phil glanced at them with interest. They
                        were not the best of apples, as any one could see. Fred Holton removed his
                        hat and pulled the straw from his mouth.
                    "I beg your pardon, Miss Kirkwood," he said, with a gravity
                        that was not mitigated by a slight quivering of Phil's lips as she
                        continued to ignore their earlier acquaintance. "I did n't
                        know this was your house or I should n't have come
                        in."
                    
                    "Then it's a good thing you didn't know,"
                        replied Phil. "If you're selling apples you have to try
                        all the houses you come to. Not to go into every gate would n't be
                        business."
                    "Well, I suppose that's so," observed Holton
                        doubtfully, letting one of the apples fall. Phil picked it up with the quick
                        reach of a shortstop. She ignored his apologies for failing to reover it
                        himself, and examined the apple critically.
                    "If you have n't any better apples in your wagon than this,
                        you're not likely to sell many," Phil commented.
                        "This one's spotted and it's a safe guess that a
                        worm nestles within. You ought to pick out the best for
                        samples."
                    "They're not a very good lot," confessed Holton.
                        "It's an old orchard and it has n't had any
                        attention. I'm going to put out some new trees next
                        year."
                    "That's a good idea," Phil observed reflectively.
                        "I've noticed that they've been planting pears
                        and apples in several places around there. Uncle Amy got a good first crop
                        this year from his young orchard. But he had a man spray the bugs off. There
                        are a lot of things to do to an orchard. The land Uncle Amy turned into an
                        orchard runs right up to your place, and it must be the same kind of land.
                        But it is n't as easy as it looksapples is
                        n't."
                    "Apples is n't?" he repeated soberly.
                    "Oh, cheer up, that's a joke! I know apples are n't!" The young man smiled.
                    "Mine is n't, I'm afraid, from
                        what you say about them."
                    "I think maybe that speck is n't a wormhole, after
                        all," said Phil, subjecting the apple she still held to another
                        scrutiny. "You might give us a half a bushel of these. My ambitions
                        lead me toward apple pie, and if it does n't come out well I can
                        blame your apples."
                    He smiled again, and frank admiration shone in his eyes as they surveyed Phil
                        with more assurance.
                    "If you really want some of these I'll bring them in. Half
                        a bushel?"
                    
                    "That will be enough," replied Phil succinctly. She rubbed
                        the apple with the corner of her blue-and-white apron, chose a spot that
                        inspired confidence, and bit into it. She waited for the effect absently and
                        puckered her lips. "It's a cooker. What's the
                        name of the brand?"
                    "Give it up."
                    "Then I'll tell you. It's a 'Liza
                        Browning. You'd better learn the names of apples before you go much
                        further in the business. Any farmhand can tell you. Uncle Amy's
                        taught me about twenty. What's the price of this precious
                        fruit?"
                    "Oh, I could n't charge you for these, you know. You
                        see"
                    "Then I won't take themnary an apple! You bring in those
                        apples and I'll pay you just the same price you ask everybody
                        else."
                    Her attention was attracted by a black cat moving along the alley fence with
                        noble unconcern. Phil stepped out upon the brick walk, drew back her arm and
                        threw the apple. It struck the fence immediately beneath the cat, which
                        vanished on the alley side.
                    "Good shot. You almost got him!"
                    "Almost nothing!" said Phil scornfully. "You did
                        n't suppose I wanted to hit the wretch, did you? He's an
                        old pal of mine and would be lonesome if I did n't scare him to
                        death occasionally."
                    Holton brought the apples in a sack which he emptied into a basket Phil found
                        for the purpose. His absence had been prolonged. To measure half a bushel of
                        apples is not ordinarily a serious matter, but in this instance the vendor
                        chose fastidiously. The fruit that went into the sack was beyond question
                        the best in the wagon.
                    "How much?" asked Phil, surveying her purchase, purse in
                        hand.
                    "Oh, about a quarter."
                    She handed him a fifty cent piece.
                    "Please don't try that againnot here! I've been
                        telphoning  the grocery and apples about like
                        those are a dollar a bushel. Good-morning!"
                    "Good-morning, Miss Kirkwood."
                    He looked at her intently, laughed, threw the sack over his shoulder and went
                        out, holding the coin in his hand.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER V
                    THE OTHERWISENESS OF PHYLLIS
                    HINT to those who read with an eye on the clock: skip this
                        chapter! It is made up from notes furnished by Mrs. John Newman King, Judge
                        Walters, Captain Joshua Wilson, the veteran recorder, former-Sheriff
                        Whittlesey and others, and is included merely to satisfy those citizens of
                        Montgomery who think this entire history should be devoted to Phil, to the
                        exclusion of her friends and relations. The historian hopes he is an
                        open-minded person, and he would rather please Montgomery than any other
                        center of thought and industry he knows; but the laws of proportion (as Phil
                        would be the first to point out) may not lightly be ignored. Phil's
                        otherwiseness was always difficult to keep in bounds; it must not tyrannize
                        these pages. Skip and carry thirteen, but don't complain if
                        pilgrims from Montgomery take you to task for denying Phil five minutes of
                        your time.
                    Phil was on her way to Buckeye Lane the first cold day in November to call on
                        the daughter of a newly enrolled member of the Madison faculty when she saw
                        her Uncle Amzi on the bank steps taking the air. She had on her best
                        walkingsuit, and swung a silver cardcase in her hand. The cardcase marked an
                        advance. Formal calls were not to Phil's taste, but her aunts had
                        lately been endeavoring to persuade her that it was no longer seemly for her
                        to "drop in" when and where she pleased, but that there
                        were certain calls of duty and ceremony which required her best togs and the
                        leaving of circumspect bits of cardboard inscribed "Miss
                        Kirkwood." When Phil set forth to call upon a girl friend it was
                        still something of a question whether caller and callee would sit in the
                        parlor and be ladies or seek the open to crack walnuts on the kitchen steps
                        or slide down the cellar door.
                    
                    As Phil spied her uncle she stopped abruptly, feigned to be looking at the
                        sign over his head, and when his glasses presently focused upon her,
                        pretended suddenly to be intent upon the face of the court-house clock two
                        blocks distant.
                    "Beg pardon, sir, but is this a bank?"
                    Thus accosted Mr. Montgomery looked upon his niece with exaggerated
                        surprise.
                    "A bank, little girl? What on earth do you want with a
                        bank?"
                    "I thought I might separate it from some of its cash; or if the
                        terms are satisfactory I might leave some money. If the venerable old party
                        I address holds a job inside we might withdraw from the public gaze and
                        commune within the portals. The day is raw and that ice-cream suit invites
                        pneumonia."
                    Passers-by viewed the pair with an amused smile. Captain Wilson, stumping
                        along at the moment, asked without pausing:
                    "Stranger in town, Amzi?"
                    "Yes, Cap; she's just bought the town and wants the key to
                        the bank vault."
                    Phil followed her uncle into the bank and waited for him to walk round behind
                        the cages. The dingy old room with its walnut counter and desks seemed at
                        once a brighter place. The four clerks made it convenient to expose
                        themselves to Phil's smile. She planted herself at the paying
                        teller's cage and waited for Amzi's benevolent countenance
                        to appear at the wicket. She held up her cardcase that he might have the
                        full benefit of her splendor, extracted a small bit of paper, and passed it
                        in to him. Seeing that it was not one of the familiar checks of the
                        Montgomery Bank, he scrutinized it closely. It was a check of the
                        "Journey's End" Magazine Company for fifty
                        dollars, drawn upon a New York bank and payable to Phyllis Kirkwood.
                    Amzi's face expressed no surprise. He threw it back and waved her
                        away.
                    "It's no good. Worthless!"
                    
                    "No good? You don't mean"
                    "No good, Miss Kirkwoodwithout your indorsement."
                    "Why did n't you say so! I don't want to come as
                        near sudden death as that again."
                    He thrust out a pen so that she need not turn to the tall desk behind her to
                        make the indorsement. He examined the signature carefully and blotted
                        it.
                    "One of your own efforts, Phil?" he asked carelessly.
                    "Well, yes, you might say so. I suppose you'd call it
                        that."
                    "Poetry?"
                    "A poor guess, Amy, and marks you as an ignorant person. Fifty
                        dollars for a poem out of my green little cantaloupe? That's half
                        what Milton got for "Paradise Lost." And the prices have
                        n't gone up much since John died."
                    She knew that his curiosity was aroused. This play of indifference was an old
                        game of theirs, a part of the teasing to which she subjected him and which
                        he encouraged.
                    "Story?"
                    "Absurd! Everybody in this town is writing a novel. Every time I go
                        into the post-office I see scared-looking people getting their manuscripts
                        weighed, and nervously looking round for fear of being caught. Nan says
                        it's a kind of literary measles people have in Indiana. Aunt
                        Josephine's cook writes poetryburnt up a pan of biscuits the other
                        day when she was trying to find a rhyme for
                        "Isaiah.""
                    "I wondered what caused me so much pain the last time I ate supper
                        at Josie's. I must have swallowed a sonnet. What's your
                        line, Phil?"
                    "Zology?"
                    "Possible?"
                    "It was this way, Amy. You know that piece I read at the high-school
                        commencement"The Dogs of Main Street"?"
                    "I do, Phil, I do; I nearly laughed myself to death."
                    "Well, it did seem to tickle the folks. I was about to kindle the
                        fire with it one day when I happened to think that if it would make a
                        high-school commencement laugh it ought to 
                        raise a laugh out of 'most anybody. So I touched it up and put in a
                        few new dogs I've got the boys in Landers's liverystable
                        taking care of, and sent it to three magazines. The first two regretted, but
                        the third fell for it. They want pictures of the dogs, though, and will give
                        me twenty more round iron dollars for a full set, so if you see me on the
                        hike with the camera in the morning, don't ring up the town
                        marshal."
                    "Well, well," said Amzi; "it sounds like easy
                        money. Going to keep it up?"
                    "I have said nothing," replied Phil, holding up her
                        cardcase and swinging it by its short chain. "Just credit me with
                        the fifty and I'll bring in my book the next time I find
                        it."
                    In front of the theater she ran into her Uncle Lawrence, gloomily posed
                        before the entrance with his astrakhan collar drawn up about his ears. He
                        had once seen Richard Mansfield in just such a coat and had been moved to
                        imitation.
                    "Divinity!" breathed Hastings tragically, noting
                        Phil's glowing cheeks and satisfying raiment.
                    "Forget it!" said Phil. "How about a box for the
                        Saturday matinee? I think I'll pull off a party for a bunch of
                        girls at your expense. What is that on the boards? You don't mean
                        that "Her Long Road Home" threatens this town again? Why
                        rub it in, Lawrince?"
                    "They've canceled," said Hastings with a sigh.
                        "That booking-office is a den of thieves. No honor, no feeling, no
                        ideals of art!"
                    His tones were unusually abysmal. He stood with his back to the door of his
                        theater as though shielding it from Philistine assaults upon the
                        drama's divine temple.
                    "By the way, Lawrince" Her Aunt Kate had rebuked her at
                        least a thousand times for calling him "Lawrince." He had
                        asked her to call him "Uncle Larry," which was her main
                        reason for not doing so. Her standard of uncles was high. She had never
                        admitted her aunts' husbands to a share in a relationship that was
                        ennobled by Amzi Montgomery. Fosdick was usually "Paul" to
                        Phil; Waterman she always called "Judge," which he hated.
                        "Lawrince, what became  of that play
                        you wrote yourself and put on in Chicago? Why don't you bring it
                        here and give the town a treat?"
                    Hastings bent upon her the grieved look of a man who suffers mutely the most
                        unkindest cut of all. Et tu, Brute! was in his reproachful
                        glance.
                    "I did n't think this of you, Phil. Of course you knew the
                        piece closed Saturday night at Peoria."
                    She had not known. Her aunt had spoken largely of the venture. The theatrical
                        powers of New York having frowned upon Hastings's play, he had
                        produced it himself, sending it forth from Chicago to enlighten the West
                        before carrying it to Broadway, there to put to rout and confusion the lords
                        of the drama who had rejected it. Five thousand dollars had been spent and
                        the play had failed dismally. Nor was this the first of Hastings's
                        misadventures of the same sort. Phil analyzed her uncle's gloom and
                        decided that it was sincere, and she was sorry for him as was her way in the
                        presence of affliction. Hastings was an absurd person, intent upon shining
                        iin a sphere to which the gods had summoned him only in mockery. Phil
                        lingered to mitigate his grief as far as possible.
                    "I'm sorry; but I suppose if a play won't go, it
                        won't."
                    "A play of merit won't! My aim was to advance the ideal of
                        American drama; that was all. The same money put into musical comedy would
                        have nailed S. R. O. on the door all winter."
                    "Lawrince," said Phil, glancing up at the fa$cLade of The
                        Hastings, "I'll tell you how you can make a barrel of
                        money out of this brick building."
                    He looked at her guardedly. Phil was a digger of pits, as he knew by
                        experience, and he was in no humor for trifling. His own balance at the bank
                        was negligible, and his wife had warned him that no more money would be
                        forthcoming for the encouragement of the American drama.
                    "Lawrince, what you ought to do is to hire that blind piano-pounder
                        who thumps for the fraternity dances, put a neat red-haired girl in a box on
                        the sidewalk, get one of the  foot-ball team
                        who's working his way through college to turn the crank, and put on
                        a fil-lum."
                    This was, indeed, rubbing salt in his wounds. He flinched at the thought.
                    "Turn my house over to the "movies"! Phil, I did
                        n't think this of you. After all I've tried to do to lift
                        this dingy village to a realizing sense of what drama iswhat it should
                        mean"
                    "Trim it, Hector. You can break all the banks in town uplifting the
                        drama and never put it over. About once a winter you have a good piece; the
                        rest of the time the folks who want to see real actors go to Indianapolis or
                        sneak up to Chicago for a week and beat you to it. That fil-lum show down by
                        the court-house is rotten. Coarse and stupid. Why not spend a few dollars
                        changing the front of this joint and put on good pictures? The people who
                        keep the pictures moving in Indianapolis sit around the fire Sunday evenings
                        and burn moneyit comes in so fast the banks have n't room for it.
                        Call this "The Home Fireside"no nickelodeon businessand
                        get the Center Church quartette to sing. It will sound just like
                        prayer-meeting to people who think a real theater a sinful place. If you
                        don't tackle it, I'll throw Bernstein out and take it up
                        myself. There's a new man in town right now trying to locate a
                        screen; beat him to the wire, Lawrince."
                    "By Jove, Phil"
                    She started off briskly and a little farther on met Jack Whittlesey the
                        sheriff, who grinned and touched his coonskin cap.
                    "Got an engagement, Phil? Hope not. Uncle Alec is goin' to
                        holler in a few minutes."
                    "I'm out calling, Sheriff, but if you're sure the
                        judge is going to act up, I'll take a look in."
                    She crossed the street to the court-house. To Phil nothing was funnier than
                        Alec Waterman in the throes of oratory. Waterman was big and burly, with a
                        thunderous voice; and when he addressed a jury he roared and shook his
                        iron-gray  mane in a manner truly terrifying.
                        In warm weather when the windows were open, he could be plainly heard in any
                        part of the court-house square. When Phil reached the circuit court-room
                        Judge Walters, with his feet on the judicial desk, was gazing at the
                        ceiling, as was his habit when trials grew tedious. As Phil entered, he
                        jerked down his feet, sat erect, snapped his fingers at the bailiff, and
                        directed the placing of a chair within the space set apart for the bar. Phil
                        smiled her thanks, and made herself comfortable with her back to the
                        clerk's desk. The case in progress was a suit for personal injuries
                        against the Sycamore Traction Company, brought by Waterman for a farmer,
                        who, on the preceding Fourth of July, had been tossed a considerable
                        distance toward Chicago by a violent contact with one of the
                        defendant's cars. The motorman and the conductor had both testified
                        that the car was running empty and that the proper signals had been given at
                        the required crossings.
                    The judge left the bench and lounged about the clerk's desk, hoping
                        to catch Phil's eye and draw her aside for one of the parleys in
                        which he delighted; but Phil had immediately become absorbed in the
                        testimony. Waterman's voice rose louder and louder as he sought to
                        befuddle the motorman as to the time of the accident, the place where the
                        collision occurred and the signaling, but without avail. The attorney for
                        the company looked on with an amused smile of unconcern. Both the motorman
                        and the conductor had been carefully rehearsed in their testimony and there
                        was little likelihood that plaintiff's counsel would be able to
                        trap them. Waterman was going back and forth over the time of day,
                        attempting to show that the car was behind its schedule, and exceeding the
                        speed limit, but the man clung to his story stubbornly. It was at exactly
                        five minutes past three; he was running slowly, and had whistled at all the
                        earlier stops; and when he saw the plaintiff driving upon the right of way
                        ahead of him he put on the brakes as quickly as possible.
                    Phil moved to a chair just behind Waterman. He was so deeply engrossed that
                        he did not notice her. He was making  no
                        headway, and was about to drop the witness when Phil bent over and
                        whispered. Without turning round he rose and renewed the attack.
                    "I will ask you, sir, to state to this jury whether it is not a fact
                        that the brake of your car was out of order and whether it had not given you
                        trouble before you struck the plaintiff?"
                    The witness stammered and glanced at counsel for the defendant, who rose and
                        objected to the question as not proper cross-examination. The judge returned
                        to the bench with renewed interest and overruled the objection. The witness
                        admitted that there had been some slight trouble with the brake, and
                        Waterman roared another question that drowned the explanation.
                    "Is n't it a fact that you ran past Stop 7 just south of
                        the scene of this collision, and did not stop your car because it was out of
                        control by reason of a crippled brake?"
                    The witness was plainly disturbed, and the defendant's counsel was
                        unable to protect him. He admitted that the brake might not have been in
                        perfect order, but it was an old car
                    "It was an old car," boomed Waterman, "and the
                        brake was worn out and you could n't have stopped at that crossing
                        even if you had wanted to! Is n't that the fact?"
                    The motorman telegraphed appealingly to the company's lawyer. The
                        judge ordered him to answer the question.
                    "There were no passengers on the car," the man, now
                        thoroughly confused, murmured incons$eAquently.
                    Waterman bent his head and took another cue from Phil, then strode
                        majestically toward the witness.
                    "There were no passengers on your car? Why not?" he
                        thundered.
                    "Why not what?" faltered the witness.
                    "I ask you, sir, if it is n't true that there was a
                        passenger waiting at Stop 7 and that you ran by that crossing because your
                        brake would n't work?"
                    The witness looked at Phil and involved himself in diffirent  by admitting that the car's speed was
                        such that he was unable to see clearly whether any passenger was waiting at
                        Stop 7. After sparring between counsel, Phil was placed upon the stand and
                        sworn to tell the whole truth. Main Street had heard that something unusual
                        was happening in the circuit court and the room filled.
                    Her name, she testified, was Phil Kirkwood. (She always signed herself Phil
                        at school, distrusting Phyllis as highfalutin'.)
                    "Otherwise Phyllis," interposed the judge soberly.
                        "It is essential that the record identify all witnesses beyond
                        peradventure."
                    The audience tittered. Phil began her story. She had been spending the Fourth
                        of July at her Uncle Amzi's farm, but wanted to return home before
                        her uncle was ready, to attend a party. There was no question of the time,
                        as she had walked across the fields to that particular stop to meet the car
                        on its scheduled hour. She had stood upon the track and waved the flag
                        placed in the shed at the stop for that purpose, but to her disgust the car
                        rushed by at full speed. She had heard the hissing of the air as the car
                        whirled by, and there being no other car for an hour she had being obliged
                        to return to the farm and wait for her uncle to drive her in.
                    Counsel for defentant, a stranger to the ways of Montgomery, who had come
                        from Indianapolis to try the case, asked Phil ironically if she were an
                        expert in the management of a trolley car.
                    "Oh, I should n't say that," said Phil;
                        "but I used to ride with motormen sometimes, back and forth to the
                        farm, and they let me stop and start the car."
                    She explained that she knew from the sound as the air went on that the brake
                        was out of order. The twelve good men and true in the jury box bent forward
                        attentively as she met the lawyer's questions. He was a young man
                        and Phil was undeniably pretty. In her calling clothes she did not look like
                        a girl who would chum with motormen. His manner was elaborately
                        deferential.
                    
                    "Miss Kirkwood, may I trouble you to tell the jury whether you ever
                        rode in the car of this particular motorman?" he asked.
                    "No, sir," replied Phil.
                    "You never saw him before, and after all you're not sure
                        he's the man who was in charge of that car that day, are
                        you?"
                    Phil dangled the cardcase from her white-gloved fingers carelessly.
                    "Perfectly confident of it," she answered.
                    "If you are sure of it, will you kindly tell the jury just how it is
                        you remember himhow you identify him as the motorman on this car on that
                        particular afternoon?"
                    "Oh! Do you really want me to tell that?" asked Phil.
                    "Answer the question!" the attorney returned sharply,
                        misreading her apparent reluctance.
                    "Why," began Phil, speaking rapidly and distinctly and
                        turning toward the jurors,"why, it's because I had noticed
                        him all that summer passing our house and he always ran faster than the
                        other motormen,you could tell his car at night if you did n't see
                        it because it ran so fast,and he's the same man who ran into
                        Bernstein's delivery wagon the one with the lame horseat the corner
                        of Monon Street about a week before the Fourth of July. I saw that,
                        too!"
                    "If Your Honor please," said Waterman, rising as the court
                        ruled that Phil's last answer, which the defendant's
                        counsel had sought vainly to interrupt, should be stricken out,
                        "the plaintiff rests. We will waive argument in this
                        case," he added impressively, putting from him, with unprecedented
                        self-denial, the chance of pillorying the unfeeling defendant
                        corporation.
                    Judge Walters looked down at Phil solemnly.
                    "The court is unable to determine whether the witness is also
                        associate counsel for plaintiff, but in any event, I suggest that she claim
                        the usual witness fee at the clerk's office."
                    Phil left the court-room and resumed her walk toward Buckeye Lane.
                    
                    Paul Fosdick, just coming down from his office, arrested her. Fosdick, whose
                        blithe spirit was never greatly disturbed by the failure of his enterprises,
                        greeted Phil gayly. He entertained a high opinion of Phil. At family
                        gatherings, which his wife and sisters-in-law made odious by petty
                        bickerings, Phil was always a refuge. It was nothing to Phil which of her
                        aunts wore the best hat, or that Mrs. Hastings had been abroad and to New
                        York while the others had been denied these recreations and delights. If his
                        wife's faith in him had been shaken by his inability to grasp the
                        fortune which always seemed just within reach; and if, on Christmas and New
                        Year's and Thanksgiving Day, when they met at Amzi's, he
                        was a bit uncomfortable, knowing that his wife's share of the
                        Montgomery money had gone into many ventures without ever coming out again,
                        Phil could be depended upon to infuse cheer into those somber occasions. He
                        frequently discussed his schemes with Phil, who was usually sympathetic; and
                        now and then she made a suggestion that was really worth considering. Where
                        other members of the family criticized him harshly behind his back, Phil
                        delivered her criticisms face to face.
                    "'Lo, Phil!"
                    "'Lo, Paul!"
                    "Phil, what's new about Sycamore Traction? They say your
                        pa's going to have a receiver appointed."
                    "If he does they will print it in the papers. How do you like my
                        hat?"
                    "It's a dream, but I hope you're not going to make
                        trouble for your dear aunts' husbands by going in for clothes. The
                        competition in the family is hot enough now without you butting in. Hastings
                        is in mourning at the bank and Waterman is sad over his last political
                        licking and my billions are coming by slow freight."
                    "By the way, Paul, I fell over that busted brickyard of yours out by
                        the flour mill the other day when I was walking for my health. There ought
                        to be money in bricks," she ended meditatively.
                    
                    "There ought, Phil, but there ain't. I'm still
                        hoping to pull that scheme out, but it takes time. You know this town does
                        n't know how to back up its enterprises."
                    "Cease knocking! What you want to do is to stop trying to organize
                        an undertakers' trust in this town where everybody lives to a green
                        old age and get busy with brick. The last time I was in Indianapolis I saw a
                        lot of new houses built out of brick that looked just about like those
                        pink-and-yellow effects you started in on. They came from over in Illinois
                        somewhere, and I guess the clay's off the very same stratum. What
                        you ought to do is to nail close to some of the city architects and
                        hypnotize them into using your goods."
                    "We tried all that, Phil; but they would n't
                        listen."
                    "Let me see; what name did you give those bricks?"
                    "We called 'em the "Gold Finish." Nothing
                        the matter with that, is there?"
                    "Most everything's the matter with that name. Anything that
                        suggests a gold brick is bound to scare sensible people. Think of living in
                        a house that people would laugh at and call the
                        "gold-brick" house! You've got to get a lot
                        better, Paul. Try once more and call 'em the
                        "Daffodil" or the "Crocus"something that
                        sounds springlike and cheerful. And play up local pridea Hoosier product for
                        Hoosier people. Then when you've done that, fly to Chicago and give
                        away enough to build a house in one of the new suburbs and daffodils will
                        spring up all over the prairie. Am I lucid?"
                    "There may be something in giving an old dog a new name.
                        I've a good notion to give it a try, and if"
                    "Oh, there's no charge! You might send me up a couple of
                        those brick; I can use 'em for nut-crackers."
                    Judge Walters once said of Phil that if she would keep a diary and write down
                        honestly everything that happened to her it would some day put Pepys to the
                        blush. Not every day was as rich in adventure as this; but this is not a bad
                        sample. If Phil had been a prig or fresh or impertinent, she would not have
                        been the idol of Main Street. A genius for 
                        being on the spot when events are forward must be born in one, and her
                        casual, indifferent air contributed to a belief in Main Street that she was
                        leagued with supernatural agencies. If there was a fire, Phil arrived ahead
                        of the department; and if a prisoner broke out of jail, Phil knew it before
                        the "Evening Star" could print the fact.
                    "Some one told me," Captain Wilson would begin, addressing
                        Judge Walters; and the judge would answer, "Otherwise
                        Phyllis." And the judge would say, "I'm going to
                        quit taking the "Star" and subscribe for
                        Phil."
                    Phil had, on the whole, a pretty good time.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VI
                    THE SMOKING-OUT OF AMZI
                    ALTHOUGH a Holton had brought scandal upon the house of
                        Montgomery by eloping with one of its duly married daughters, or perhaps
                        because of that disagreeable circumstance, Mrs. Hastings, Mrs. Hastings,
                        Mrs. Fosdick, and Mrs. Waterman were constantly exercised over the affairs
                        of the Holtons. The Holtons prospered, as witness the fashion in which
                        William (the wicked Jack's brother) had built up the First National
                        Bank after the dissolution of the old Montgomery & Holton
                        partnership. And there was Samuel, who had varied his political activities
                        by organizing companies to raise vanilla beans or sarsaparilla, or to dig
                        silver in Mexico a man of affairs, unquestionably, who had outgrown
                        Montgomery and moved to the state capital where he died. Even
                        Samuel's paltry achievements were touched with a certain
                        magnificence in the eyes of these ladies; Samuel had escaped from Montgomery
                        and this was a consummation that had long been the burden of their prayers.
                        The very existence of the First National Bank was offensive to the sisters
                        of Amzi Montgomery. They had wanted Amzi to "nationalize"
                        his bank when the break occured and it had been "just
                        like" their stubborn brother to continue in the old rut.
                    Mrs. William Holton lived in a modern house that was superior to anything the
                        Montgomerys could boast. It had two bathrooms, a music-room, and electric
                        lights. In Montgomery one bathroom had long been a summit-crowning
                        achievement, to which the fortunate possessor might point with pride; and as
                        for dedicating a room to music, and planting in it a grand piano flanked by
                        a bust of Mozart, and shedding upon it a dim opalescent glow from concealed
                        lights  no one in the community had ever before
                        scaled such heights of grandeur.
                    For half a dozen years after their sister's escapade the Montgomery
                        sisters had not spoken to a Holton; but in such communities as theirs the
                        "cutting" of persons with whom one has been brought up is
                        attended with embarrassments. William Holton had married, a little late, a
                        Memphis woman he had met on a trip to Mexico to inspect the plantations in
                        which he and his brother Samuel were interested. She was "a
                        Southern woman," with a charming accent, as every one admitted. The
                        accent was greatly admired. Several young girls sought to soften the vowels
                        of their native Hoosier speech in conformity with the models introduced by
                        Mrs. Holton. The coming of this lady, the zest with which she entered into
                        the social life of the town, the vacillations of certain old friends of the
                        Montgomerys who had taken sides against the Holtons after the Kirkwood
                        incident, had given the three sisters an excuse for abandoning the feud in
                        so far at least as it applied to William Holton. In any view of the case, no
                        matter how base the Holtons might be, there was no reason why the family
                        sins should be visited upon the lady with the aforesaid accent, whose taste
                        in dress was unassailable and who poured tea with such an air.
                    Amzi read his newspaper in the little back room of the bank on a November
                        afternoon and awaited the coming of his sisters. The necessity for any
                        business discussions between them had steadily diminished. Their
                        father's estate had long ago been distributed, and Amzi had not
                        troubled himself as to the subsequent fate of the money he had paid to his
                        sisters. They were all blessed with husbands, and if these gentlemen did not
                        safeguard their wives' property it was no affair of his. There had
                        been about half a million dollars, which meant in round figures a hundred
                        thousand dollars apiece, and this in Montgomery is a great deal of
                        money.
                    When his sisters arrived, Amzi rose with the nice courtesy that lay in him
                        and placed chairs for them about the table. 
                        Then panting from his exertion he pulled a cigar from his waistcoat and
                        dry-smoked it. They were unwontedly grave, suggesting the gloom of a
                        committee appointed to perfect funeral arrangements for a poor relation.
                    "You have talked to Phil about the party, I suppose," said
                        Mrs. Waterman.
                    "I have: I most certainly have, Josie," replied Amzi,
                        sighing heavily.
                    "And she's going to do what we want?"
                    Amzi tilted his head to one side reflectively, and took the cigar from his
                        mouth.
                    "She's going to stand for the party, if that's
                        what you mean; but as to doing what you want on general principles,
                        I'm not so dead sure."
                    "It was your duty, Amzi, to go into the matter thoroughly to lay
                        down the law to her," observed Mrs. Fosdick.
                    "All right," nodded Amzi. "In the words of the
                        poet, I done it. But Phil does n't need lectures."
                    "Does n't need them?" sniffed Mrs. Fosdick.
                        "That poor child could n't have a lecture too many. She
                        always pulls the wool over your eyes. It's right and proper for us
                        to know just what she said when you told her she had to stop running round
                        so much and act like a respectable well-brought-up girl."
                    "You're a lot of silly geese about Philall of
                        you," declared Amzi, bringing his gaze to bear upon them seriatim. "Phil is far from being a fool, and
                        there's a heart in her as big as the court-house. We don't
                        appreciate her; we're always nagging her and trying to reform
                        her."
                    The plural was pure chivalry. It was not Amzi who nagged Phil. The aunts,
                        perfectly aware of this, and ready usually to challenge any intimation that
                        their attitude toward Phil was not dictated by equity and wisdom, were
                        silent. Their failure to respond with their customary defense aroused his
                        suspicions. They had been to a tea somewhere and were in their new fall
                        togs. Their zealous attempts to live up to what were to him the absurdest,
                        the most preposterous  ideals, struck him just
                        now as pathetic; but he was fond of his sisters. If the course of their
                        lives was inexplicable and their ambitions ridiculous and futile, his good
                        humor never failed in his intercourse with them. But they had not disclosed
                        their hand on this occasionhe was confident of thisand he warily fortified
                        himself to meet whatever assault their strategy had planned. The three women
                        glanced at one another covertly: Kate and Fanny seemed to be deferring to
                        their older sister. It was with unmistakable diffidence and after a minute
                        scrutiny of her cardcase that Mrs. Waterman spoke.
                    "Amzi, this is an important time in Phil's life, and there
                        are some things we ought to counsel each other about. We all take it for
                        granted that you know where Lois is."
                    Amzi crossed his fat legs and shrugged his fat shoulders. He was not in the
                        least pleased by the direction of the inquiry.
                    "We feel we are entitled to know all you know about her,"
                        added Mrs. Fosdick.
                    "You should remember," said Mrs. Hastings, "that
                        she's our sister as well as yours."
                    Amzi's jaws tightened and he inspected the end of his cigar. This
                        sudden manifestation of sisterly interest in Lois was not without its
                        amusing side. They had long ago spurned their sister with bitterness, and
                        his speculations as to the real object of their visit had not touched the
                        remote horizons against which Lois was vaguely limned.
                    "I don't see," he observed deliberately,
                        "that Lois has anything whatever to do with Phil or any of the rest
                        of us."
                    "Of course not, Amzi. That's exactly the point. We only
                        want to be sure she's a long way off; we're entitled to
                        know that. And we've heard"
                    Mrs. Hastings laid upon heard that fine, insinuating
                        inflection that is a part of the grammar of gossip. His sisters had heard
                        something, and while he discounted its value automatically, as was his way,
                        he was not without curiosity as to its nature. They saw that he was
                        interested.
                    
                    "The Walters have just got back from a Western trip, and they heard
                        in Seattle that Lois has left Holton. He had been doing badlydrinking, and
                        all that."
                    "It was bound to come, of course," said Mrs. Waterman.
                        "You can't tell me that people who do a thing like that
                        can ever be happy."
                    Her tone did not please Amzi. It was clear that he found the whole subject
                        disagreeable. He was immensely annoyed that they had come to him to discuss
                        Lois after years of silence. It was as though a great rock planted in the
                        avenue of her exit had succumbed to the tooth of Time and its exfoliations
                        were falling ominously about him.
                    "I thought it was understood long ago that we had dropped Lois. If
                        she and Holton got tired of each other, it's their business. I
                        don't imagine you want me to send for her to come
                        home."
                    "Amzi!" they gasped.
                    It seemed that this shuddering exclamation expressed a horror that shook
                        their very souls. It was incredible that so dark a thought should have
                        crossed the mind of a man commonly looked upon as same.
                    "That would be the limit," cried Mrs. Hastings.
                        "Don't even mention such a thingit's too horrible
                        to joke about."
                    "I was n't joking. If she's gone to smash with
                        Holton, I thought maybe you wanted us to bring the prodigal home, and give
                        her veal loaf for Sunday evening tea. By the way, Kate, don't ever
                        turn me loose on any of your veal loaf again. The last I had at your house
                        gave me indigestion; it might have led to apoplexy and killed
                        me."
                    The fierceness of his frowning caused his scalp to wrinkle clear back to his
                        fringe of hair. His sisters were vexed by his attempt to relieve the
                        discussion with humor. It was necessary to sober him, and Mrs. Hastings
                        thought she could effect the sobering of Amzi.
                    "Minnie Walters says they have lost their money; the judge saw Jack
                        Holton, but you know how the judge is; he would n't ever speak of
                        it to a soul."
                    
                    "Minnie would," said Amzi dryly.
                    "Minnie only mentioned it in the kindest way," said Mrs.
                        Waterman, coloring. "You know Minnie does n't gossip; but
                        as an old friend of our family she thought we ought to know. I think it was
                        kind of her to tell us."
                    "Well, it does n't seem to have made you girls much
                        happier. What on earth are you going to do; what do you want me to
                        do?" he demanded, blowing out his cheeks and glaring.
                    "We don't want you to do anything, Amzi," said
                        Mrs. Hastings, with that sweetness with which women of little discernment
                        attempt to blunt the wrath of man.
                    It was important to keep Phil in the picture: with Phil dancing before them
                        Amzi could be held in subjection. Mrs. Waterman hastened to mention Phil and
                        the responsibility they all felt about her, to justify their curiosity as to
                        Phil's mother. Amzi blew his nose and readjusted his spectacles.
                        Mrs. Waterman advanced the battle-line boldly.
                    "We assume that you have always kept in touch with poor Lois and
                        that you still hear from her. And we feel that the time has come for you to
                        treat us more frankly about her. It's for Phil's sake, you
                        know, Amzi."
                    Amzi could not see how any of the later transactions in the life of
                        Phil's mother were of the slightest importance to Phil. He shook
                        his head impatiently and shrugged his shoulders.
                    "Lois," he blurted, "is in Dresden."
                    "Then she has left him!" cried Mrs.
                        Fosdick, with a note of triumph that trumpeted the complete vindication of
                        Mrs. Waterman's averments.
                    "I tell you I don't know anything about Holton,"
                        replied Amzi, who had, in strictest truth, told them nothing of the kind. He
                        experienced the instant regret suffered by secretive persons who watch a
                        long-guarded fact slip away beyond reclamation; but repentance could avail
                        nothing, so he added,
                    "Yes; she's abroad. She's been over there for some
                        time." "Of course, he's run through her money;
                        that was to be  expected!" exclaimed
                        Mrs. Fosdick in a tone that implied a deep resentment of the fate that had
                        robbed the erring Lois of her money.
                    "If he did she never told me so," Amzi answered.
                        "But Lois was never what you might call a squealer; if he robbed
                        her you can be pretty dead sure she would n't sob about it on the
                        street corners. That would n't be a bit like the Lois I remember.
                        Lois was n't the woman to go scampering off after the Devil and
                        then get scared and burst out crying when she found her shoes beginning to
                        get hot."
                    After all these years Amzi had spoken, and his sisters did not like his tone.
                        Their brother, a gentleman the correctness of whose life had never been
                        questioned, was referring to the conduct of the sister who had disgraced her
                        family in outrageous and sinful terms. The Prince of Darkness and the fervid
                        pavements of his kingdom were not to be brought into conversation with any
                        such lightness, as though the going to the Devil were not, after all, so
                        horriblenot something to be whispered with terror in the dark confessional
                        of their souls. One might have imagined that Lois's very sins had
                        endeared her to this phlegmatic older brother! There was not only this
                        gloomy reflection, but his admissions had opened long vistas to their
                        imaginations. He probably knew more than he meant to disclose, and this made
                        it necessary to continue their pumping with the greatest discretion.
                    "It would be hard if she came back on you for help after everything
                        that's happened; but of course that would be your affair,
                        Amzi," said Mrs. Hastings leadingly.
                    "It would," Amzi admitted explosively. "It
                        undoubtedly would!"
                    This, in their eagerness, seemed an admission. The interview was proving
                        fruitful beyond their fondest hopes. He had doubtless been in
                        Lois's fullest confidence from the first; and darkest of all, it
                        was wholly likely, now that she had broken with Holton, that Amzi was
                        supplying her with the means of subsistence in the capitals of Europe.
                        Around this last thought they rallied.
                    
                    "Of course, if Lois should really be in need, Amzi," said
                        Mrs. Waterman, "it would be the duty of all of us to help her; that
                        would only be right. But even if it comes to that we should have to consider
                        Phil, too. When you think of everthing, our responsibility is much greater
                        for Phil than for Lois. Phil is here; her life's before her;
                        she's one of us, you know, Amzi."
                    "Right, Josie; you are mighty right. What you mean is that if it
                        came to a question of Lois's starving in Europe and Phil's
                        starving on our doorsteps, we'd help Phil first because
                        she's right here under our noses. But I don't understand
                        that Lois is starving; nor is Phil for that matter. Phil's all
                        right."
                    The thought that he was sending money to Lois was disagreeable; that he
                        should be doing so when Phil's needs cried so stridently aroused
                        the direst apprehensions. They had all received from Amzi their exact
                        proportion of their father's estate; even Waterman had never been
                        able to find a flaw in the adjustment. Through Waterman they had learned
                        that Lois's proper receipt was on file; they knew exactly the date
                        on which it had been placed of record in the county clerk's office.
                        They had looked upon this as the final closing of all the doors that shut
                        this sister out of their calculations. They, or their children, were
                        potential beneficiaries in Amzi's property if he ultimately died a
                        bachelor. And there was no telling when his asthma might be supplemented by
                        a fatal pneumonia. This was never to be whispered in so far as the chances
                        of their own offspring were concerned; but of Phil and the propriety of her
                        expectations they might speak with entire candor.
                    "While we are talking of these matters," observed Mrs.
                        Hastings, "we may as well face one or two things that have troubled
                        us all a good deal. You know as well as we do that poor Tom has gradually
                        been playing out; it's pitiful the way he has been letting his
                        business go. Every one knows that he has ability, but he's been
                        living more and more up in the air. He owns the block over there and the
                        rent he gets  from that is about all he has.
                        And I should n't be at all surprised if the block had been
                        mortgaged."
                    "I've heard," said Mrs. Waterman, examining a
                        button on her white glove, "that he has borrowed money on
                        it."
                    They looked guardedly at Amzi. Mrs. Waterman's husband, who kept an
                        eye on the county records, had, at his wife's behest, assured
                        himself frequently that Kirkwood's block in Main Street was
                        unencumbered. Kirkwood's former home, the decaying monument to his
                        domestic tragedy, and the only other thing he owned, was free also. In this
                        process of "smoking out" their brother it would have
                        helped if they could have pointed to the menace of her father's
                        encumbered property to Phil; but they had already learned more than they had
                        expected in establishing beyond peradventure the fact that Lois and Amzi
                        maintained communication, and that in all likelihood he was providing for
                        her in her exile. It was high time they scanned the top shelves of the
                        closet occupied by the dancing family skeleton!
                    "While we're about it we may as well face the possibility
                        that Tom may marry again," remarked Mrs. Fosdick suddenly.
                    Amzi drew his hand across his pink dome.
                    "Nothing to hinder him that I know of," he replied.
                    "I don't know of anything that would wake him up unless it
                        would be that. The right sort of woman could do a lot for a man like Tom,
                        with all that he has suffered."This from Mrs. Waterman, who seemed
                        deeply moved by the thought of Kirkwood's sufferings.
                    "But PhilI can't imagine Phil with a stepmother. We never
                        could allow that; we should have to take her away from him,"
                        declared Mrs. Fosdick.
                    Amzi rested his elbow on the table, and breathed hard for a minute. He took
                        the unlighted cigar from his mouth and waved it at them.
                    "What's got into you girls anyhow! You're
                        borrowing trouble in all the banks in the universea little above your line
                        of credit. You seem terribly anxious about Lois all of a  sudden. It just happens that I know she
                        ain't hungry, and that she's over there living like a
                        respectable woman. Lois is n't like the rest of us; Lois is
                        different! There's more electricity in Lois than the rest of us
                        have; you know it as well as I do. Now just to satisfy your curiosity
                        I'll tell you that I saw Lois"
                    "You saw her!" they chorused.
                    "I saw her in Chicago about two months ago. She was on her way to
                        Europe then; I had dinner with her and put her on the train for New York,
                        and she sailed the day she got there; so now, if you're scared to
                        death for fear she's going to turn up here in town, you can put it
                        clean out of your minds."
                    They sighed their relief. He was not given to long speeches and the effort of
                        his recent deliverances caused him to cough, and the coughing brought his
                        voice finally to a high wheeze. He had not quite finished yet, however.
                    "Now, as for Tom Kirkwood marrying," he went on,
                        "let him marry. It's none of our business, is it? He
                        married into our family and got the worst of it. It was n't a
                        particularly cheerful business, the way it came out. If he's fool
                        enough to try it again, it's his trouble not ours; and you
                        can't tell but he might make a go of it next time."
                    "We have no idea of trying to hinder him," said Mrs.
                        Waterman with dignity. "As you say, it's Tom's
                        trouble. And of course we could manage so Phil would n't suffer, no
                        matter what he did."
                    "Phil suffer! Thunder! What are you always talking about Phil for; I
                        tell you Phil's all right! Phil's got more gumption than
                        all the rest of us put together. Phil's an honor to the family;
                        she's the best girl in this town and the best girl in the whole
                        state of Indiana, or the United States, for that matter. If you have visions
                        of seeing Phil chased over the back lot by any stepmother, you have another
                        guess coming. Thunder!"
                    He drew out a white silk handkerchief and blew his nose. The sisters saw with
                        regret that there was no recurring to  the
                        attractive subject of that interview in Chicago, though their minds were
                        beset with a thousand questions they wished to ask him about it. They
                        realized that to do so would be a blunder. They had stumbled upon a gold
                        mine and were obliged to leave its rich hoard untouched. They returned to
                        Phil, who, as a topic, offered safer ground than her mother.
                    "Phil's party," said Mrs. Hastings briskly,
                        "ought to be in keeping with the family dignity. We thought it a
                        lot better for you to have it in your house than for usour own houses are
                        small." (This with resignation.) "And it does n't
                        seem quite nice for us to have it in the Masonic Hall,
                        though some of the nicest people are doing that. To bring Phil out in her
                        grandfather's house speaks for the whole family. And it's
                        dear of you to consent to it. We all appreciate that, Amzi."
                    "Of course it's the place for it!" affirmed Amzi
                        impatiently. "I'll give that party and you can get
                        whatever Phil needs and do it right; you understand? And then I want you to
                        give me all the bills. Now what else do you want?"
                    "We feel," began Mrs. Fosdick, "that the
                        invitations, which will go out in your name, should take in everybody we
                        want Phil to know."
                    Amzi grinned guardedly.
                    "That's pretty good, Fanny. Do you suppose there's
                        a man, woman, baby, or yellow dog in this town that Phil does n't
                        know? I doubt it. But go on."
                    "We don't mean that way, Amzi," said Mrs. Waterman
                        patiently. "We mean"
                    "Thunder! Go on!"
                    "We mean that the list should be representativethat old differences
                        should be put aside."
                    The wrinkles on Amzi's pink pate scampered back to find refuge in
                        his absurd fringe of pale-gold hair. Mrs. Waterman advanced her pickets
                        hurriedly.
                    "You know we've had to recognize the Holtons of late,
                        disagreeable though it has been. William is n't like Jack  you know that; and when he brought his wife
                        here, a perfect stranger, it did n't seem fair to ignore
                        her."
                    "The fact is," Mrs. Fosdick interpolated, "we
                        simply could n't, Amzi. This town's too small to carry on
                        a feud comfortably. We all stopped speaking to the Holtons after poor Lois
                        left, but the rest of them could n't help what Jack did; and, of
                        course, Lois"
                    "You want to ask Mr. and Mrs. William to Phil's
                        party?" Mrs. Fosdick, fearing from the fierceness with which he
                        reduced the matter to words, that he was about to veto the suggestion,
                        hastened to strengthen their case.
                    "For business reasons, Amzi, we feel that we ought to bury the
                        hatchet. Paul has to meet William Holton constantly. No matter what we
                        think, William is really one of the wide-awake business
                        men of the town, and in all sorts of things; and Paul has to keep him on the
                        executive committee of the Commercial Clubthe president of the First
                        National Bank can't be overlooked, though you can't ever
                        doubt Paul's devotion to all our interests."
                    "And," Mrs. Waterman added, "Mr. Holton retained
                        Alec in a case last winter."
                    "Yep," observed Amzi, "he did. It was that suit
                        about opening up Chapel Street and I was one of the defendants."
                        And then he added, with calculated softness, as though recalling a pleasant
                        memory, "Alec lost the suit."
                    The mention of the Chapel Street Extension had been an unfortunate slip on
                        Mrs. Waterman's part; but Amzi was generous.
                    "Bill Holton is undoubtedly a leading citizen," he
                        observed, looking at the ceiling and rubbing his nose absently. The irony of
                        this, if he intended any, was well hidden. William Holton, president of the
                        First National Bank, was a business rival, and Amzi never abused his
                        competitors. Having satisfied his curiosity as to the ceiling, he announced
                        his complete acquiescence in the idea of inviting the William Holtons.
                        "No objection whatever," he declared, "to asking
                        Bill and his wife. Is that all of 'em you want?"
                    
                    "Well, there are Ethel and Charlie. They've just closed
                        their house here and mean to live in Indianapolis, but of course they still
                        belong here. Charlie is doing very well, they sayquite a brilliant young
                        man; and Ethel is very sweet and well-bred. She went to Miss
                        Waring's school in Indianapolis and knows some of the nicest young
                        people in the city. I think it would be nice to ask them; it always looks
                        well to have some out-of-town guests."
                    "That Sam's children you're talking about?
                        What's the matter with the other boy?"
                    "Fred? I think the less we say about him the better. He's
                        been down in Mexico on one of Sam's schemes and I guess he did
                        n't do well. He's on the old farm next your place. I guess
                        Ethel and Charlie can represent that branch of the family. If you
                        think" began Mrs. Fosdick, anxious that Amzi should be fully
                        satisfied.
                    "Thunder! I don't think. You fix it up to suit
                        yourselves." They began to adjust their wraps, fairly well
                        satisfied with the results of the visit. Amzi eyed their autumnal splendors
                        with the mild wonder a woman's raiment always aroused in him.
                    "Tom marry again, you say," he observed pensively.
                        "What's put that idea in your head?"
                    "Why, you know as well as we do, Amzi, that he and Rose Bartlett are
                        very sympathetic," exclaimed Mrs. Hastings, veiling a sharp glance
                        at him. The three women, feigning inattention, were alert for their
                        brother's reply. It came promptly.
                    "Rose is a fine woman," he said with cordial emphasis.
                        "A fine woman. And," he immediately added,
                        "so's Nan!"
                    Then he thrust his hands into his coat pockets and filled his cheeks and
                        glared.
                    They were grieved by the mention of Nan. The bluff heartiness with which he
                        had expressed his admiration for Rose had been gratifying and satisfying;
                        but by speaking with equal fervor of Nan he had sent them adrift again.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VII
                    GHOSTS SEE THE LIGHT AGAIN
                    KIRKWOOD plunged into work with an ardor that was not lost
                        upon Phil. He rose early and kept office hours with a new faithfulness, and
                        he frequently carried books and papers home for study. Something was
                        impending, Phil surmised, in the affairs of the Sycamore Traction Company,
                        for he had been to Indianapolis to confer with the New York lawyer who
                        represented the trustee for the bondholders and they had made an inspection
                        of the road together. It had always been Kirkwood's way when
                        aroused to devote himself tirelessly to his client's business, and
                        Phil had not failed to note how completely labor transformed him. His
                        languor and indifference now disappeared; he spoke feelingly of the
                        generosity of his Williams classmate, who had placed the Sycamore case in
                        his hands. It was a great opportunity and he assured her that he meant to
                        make the most of it.
                    He warned her that she was not to tell any one what he was engaged upon, and
                        that she must not be surprised into confessions by her aunts. He began to
                        visit the capital, always returning on the evening train, though she knew
                        that he might more comfortably have spent the night in the city. He
                        explained to Phil that he hoped to adjust the Sycamore's affairs
                        without litigation.
                    "I'm just enough of an old fogy to cut myself out of a big
                        fee by smoothing the wrinkles without a lawsuit. It's the professor
                        in me, Phil; it's the academic taint."
                    And to this the obvious retort was, of course, that it was because of his
                        highmindedness that he sought peaceable adjustments where more drastic
                        measures would have been to his profit.
                    She, too, was putting forth her best energies, and he was  relieved to find that she disposed of her work
                        so lightly; even her frequent calamities were a matter for jesting. They
                        made a joke of the washing of the supper dishes: he insisted on helping her,
                        and would don an apron and do the rougher part of it. He declared that he
                        had never been so well fed before, and that her cooking showed real genius.
                        It would be a dark day when his fee in the traction case would make it
                        possible to install a new maid-of-all work.
                    Phil was aware that their talk drifted often and with seeming inevitableness
                        to the Bartletts. Her successes with the housekeeping were due to the
                        friendly supervision of the sisters in Buckeye Lane. He liked to hear her
                        recount the ways in which they were her guide and inspiration. In doubts she
                        flew to them; but one or the other appeared almost daily at the cottage.
                        "Rose showed me how to make that sponge cake," Phil would
                        say; or, if the furniture in their little parlor had been rearranged, it was
                        very likely Nan who had suggested the change. It was a considerable distance
                        across town from the Kirkwoods' to Number 98 Buckeye Lane, and as
                        these women were exceedingly busy it was not without sacrifice that they
                        visited Phil so constantly. "Nan read me some new jokes
                        she's just sending off this morning: I wonder how people think up
                        such things," Phil would observe, turning, perhaps, with her hand
                        on the pantry door; and she knew that her father's face lighted at
                        the mention of Nan and her jokes.
                    The aunts had not been above planting in Phil's young breast the
                        suspicion that her father was romantically "interested" in
                        one of the Bartlettsas to which one they hoped she would enlighten them.
                        They tried to keep track of the visits paid by the father and daughter to
                        Buckeye Lane; their veiled inquiries were tinged also with suspicions that
                        Amzi might be contemplating marriage with one of these maiden ladies of the
                        Lanethe uncertainties in each case as to the bright star of particular
                        adoration giving edge to their curiosity. The cautious approaches, the traps
                        set in unexpected places, amused Phil when she was not angered  by them. As she viewed the matter it would be
                        perfectly natural for her father to marry either of the Bartlett sisters,
                        her only fear being that marriage would disturb the existing relations
                        between the two houses which were now so wholly satisfactory.
                    Phil managed to visit her father's office every day or two, trips to
                        "town" being among the Montgomery housewife's
                        privileges, a part of her routine. Much visiting was done in Main Street,
                        and there was always something to take one into Struby's
                        drug-store, which served as a club. Even in winter there was hot chocolate
                        and bouillon to justify the sociably inclined in lingering at the soda-water
                        tables by the front windows. Phil, heedful of the warnings of the courthouse
                        clock, managed to keep in touch with current history without jeopardizing
                        the regularity of meals at home. She was acquiring the ease of the Bartletts
                        in maintaining a household with a minimum of labor and worry. Her aunts had
                        convoyed her to Indianapolis to buy a gown for the coming-out party, which
                        was now fixed for the middle of November; and they were to return to the
                        city shortly for a fitting. All Main Street was aware that Phil was to be
                        brought out; the aunts had given wide publicity to the mater; they had
                        sighingly confessed to their friends the difficulties, the labor, the
                        embarrassment of planting their niece firmly in society.
                    Phil, dropping into her father's office in the middle of an
                        afternoon and finding him absent, dusted it from force of habit and began
                        turning the pages of a battered copy of "Elia" she kept
                        tucked away in an alcove that contained the Indiana Reports. A sign pinned
                        on the door stated that her father would return in half an hour. This card,
                        which had adorned the door persistently for several years, had lately ceased
                        to prophesy falsely, Phil knew, and she thought she heard her father on the
                        stairs when a young man she did not at once recognize opened the door and
                        glanced about, then removed his hat and asked if Mr. Kirkwood would return
                        shortly.
                    
                    "I'm Mr. Charles Holton," said the visitor.
                    For a man to prefix "mister" to his own name was contrary
                        to local usage, and the manner, the voice, the city clothes of Charles
                        Holton at once interested Phil. She was sitting in her father's old
                        swivel chair, well drawn in under his big flat-top desk, across which she
                        surveyed the visitor at leisure. She placed him at once in his proper niche
                        among the Holtons: it was of him that people were speaking as a Montgomery
                        boy who was making himself known at the capital. He was the brother of Ethel
                        and Fred, and clearly an alert and dashing person.
                    "Pardon me; but I remember you perfectly, Miss Kirkwood. I hope we
                        may dispense with the formality of an introduction we old Montgomery
                        peopleand that sort of thing!"
                    Holton carried a stick, which was not done in Montgomery save by elderly men,
                        or incumbents of office, like Judge Walters or Congressman Reynolds. His
                        necktie also suggested more opulent avenues than Main Street.
                    "By the outward and visible sign upon the portal I assume that Mr.
                        Kirkwood will return shortly."
                    He referred to his watch, absently turned the stem-key, and sat down in one
                        of the chairs which Phil had lately dusted.
                    "I used to see you around a lot when I was a boyyou and your pony;
                        but we've all been away so muchmy sister Ethel and I. You know
                        Ethel?"
                    "I've seen her," said Phil.
                    "We've just been breaking up our old home here. Rather
                        tough, too, when you think we're quite alone. We've sold
                        the old house; sorry, but the best offer I got was from a doctor who wants
                        to turn it into a drink-cure sanatorium. Tough on the neighbors, but there
                        you are! It did n't seem square to stand in the way of bracing up
                        booze victims."
                    He expected her approval of this attitude; and Phil murmured phrases that
                        seemed to fill the gap he left for them.
                    "Had to go to the highest bidderyou can hardly give  away an old house like that in a place like
                        this. Neighbors are kicking, but it was n't my fault."
                    Phil said she supposed that was so.
                    She was still noting various small items of Holton's raiment his tan
                        oxford shoes, brilliant socks, and brown derby. A brown derby seemed odd in
                        Montgomery. From the pocket of his sackcoat protruded the cuffs of tan
                        gloves, and he wore an inconspicuous watch chain passed from pocket to
                        pocket of his waistcoat. Not even the most prosperous of the college seniors
                        had ever presented to Phil's eye a variety of adornments so
                        tastefully chosen, a color scheme so effective. The interview seemed to be
                        to the young man's liking. He talked with assurance, holding his
                        light stick with one hand, and balancing his hat on his knee with the other.
                        Often before men had come into the office as Phil sat there and she had
                        conversed with them while they waited for her father. She had usually
                        exhausted the possibilities in forecasting her father's return at
                        such times; but this gentleman seemed in no wise impatient. He spoke of the
                        world's affairs lightly and with a flattering confidence in the
                        understanding and sympathy of his auditor. The theatrical attractions at the
                        capital, the promise of grand opera in Chicago, the political changes, these
                        were things of passing interest, but nothing to grow feverish about.
                    "The new trolley line will make a lot of difference to towns like
                        Montgomeryrevolutionize things in fact. Part of the great social change that
                        is apparent all over the Middle West. There won't be any country
                        folks any more; all hitched on to the citiesthe rubes derubenized and
                        interurbanized!"
                    Phil admitted that the changes he suggested were of significance. Her father
                        often used similar phrases in speaking of tendencies and influences; but it
                        was to be expected of him. The same ideas as expressed by Charles Holton
                        derived a certain importance from the fact that he condescended to utter
                        them; they gained weight and authority from his manner of presenting them.
                        He was not only a man of the  world, but an
                        acute observer of social phenomena; and he was a new sort. She had not known
                        any one like him. The memory of her two meetings with Fred came back to her:
                        she recalled them the more clearly by reason of the contrast between the
                        brothers.
                    "Your brother has moved back to the farm," she suggested to
                        gain confirmation of a relationship which seemed hardly plausible with this
                        radiant young person before her.
                    "Oh, Fred! Well, I'd have you know that I offered to take
                        Fred in with me, but he would n't see it. I'd like the
                        folks over here to know that; but I could n't do anything with him.
                        He camped on one of our Mexican mines so long that he is afraid of cities,is
                        n't city-broke,and seemed relieved when I suggested that he take
                        the farm. It's no great shakes of a farm as farms go, but
                        he's one of these plodding chaps who like a hard job. He came back
                        and took a look around and said it was back to the soil for him! So there
                        was the farm, just waiting for somebody to tackle it. I have n't
                        seen him for some time,I'm terribly busy, but I dare say
                        he's out there, an earnest young husbandman anxious to become one
                        of these prosperous farmers who push the price of bread out of sight and cry
                        to have the tariff taken off champagne. You don't happen to know
                        Fred?"
                    "I've met your brother," said Phil with
                        reserve.
                    "Well, I suppose we Montgomery folks are all acquainted without
                        being introduced. Lots of 'em moving to Indianapolis; I'm
                        thinking of organizing a club over there to keep the Montgomery people
                        togetheran annual dinner, say; and that sort of thing. Do you know,
                        it's rather nice of you to be talking to me in this friendly,
                        neighborly way; it really is."
                    As Phil seemed not to see at once wherein the particular kindness of it lay,
                        he smiled and continued:
                    "Our families have n't been so friendly, you know. Pardon
                        me!"
                    Phil, seeing now what he meant, colored deeply, and glancing  out of the window was rewarded by a glimpse of
                        Amzi's back. He had just concluded an observation and was turning
                        into the bank.
                    "You will pardon me, won't you," pleaded young
                        Holton, lowering his voice.
                    "I think father will be here shortly," Phil remarked
                        irrelevantly.
                    He had opened himself to the suspicion that he had broached the subject of
                        the antipathy between their houses merely to test its dramatic value. To be
                        talking to the daughter of a woman with whom his uncle had eloped made a
                        situation; it is possible that he liked situations that called into action
                        his wits and an evident gift for using his voice and eyes. He had been
                        rapidly noting Phil's good points. He wished to impress her, and he
                        was not convinced that the impression he had made was favorable or that she
                        forgave him for touching, however lightly, upon the ungrateful topic of her
                        mother's dereliction. He had never thought of his Uncle
                        Jack's escapade with Mrs. Kirkwood concretely; it had happened long
                        ago, before he became attentive to such things; but the young woman with
                        whom he was now conversing visualized the episode for him. In his mind there
                        was an element of picturesqueness in that joint page of Holton-Montgomery
                        history. He wondered whether Phil looked like her mother. Phil was pretty
                        enough, though in repose she seemed rather spiritless. She was swinging
                        herself in the swivel chair carelessly, and since his reference to the old
                        scandal he saw or imagined that he saw her manner change from courteous
                        interest to a somewhat frosty indifference. His pride was pricked by the
                        sense of his blunder. He flattered himself that in his intercourse with men
                        and women he was adroit in retrieving errors, and his instinct warned him
                        that the curtain must not fall upon a scene that left him in discomfiture at
                        the back of the stage.
                    "It pleased Ethel and me very much to have an invitation to your
                        party, Miss Kirkwood. It was nice of you to ask us, and we shall certainly
                        come over, even if I have to give  up a trip to
                        New York I had expected to make at just that time. Let me see, it's
                        the twentieth, is n't it? Well, I guess I can make them wait down
                        there. We Western folks don't often get a chance to make New
                        Yorkers wait."
                    Phil was disposed to be magnanimous. He undoubtedly wished to be agreeable;
                        and it was his uncle, a remote person whom she had never seen, who had
                        decamped with her mother. It was hardly just to hold him accountable for his
                        uncle's misdeeds. She wondered whether the uncle had been like this
                        nephew, or whether he was more like William Holton, whom she had seen
                        frequently all her life. In her encounters with Fred Holton, she had only
                        vaguely associated him with that other and indubitably wicked Holton who had
                        eloped with her mother.
                    She was conscious that some one was stirring in the room overhead, and she
                        became attentive to the sounds. Her father had asked delay in disposing of
                        the apparatus of the old photograph gallery; he had wanted to look the old
                        stuff over, he had said, and he wished also to utilize the darkroom in
                        developing the pictures he had taken on their last outing. One of the
                        objects of her call this afternoon had been to urge him to haste, as
                        Bernstein wanted to move his remodeling shop into the rooms at once.
                    "I make it a rule of my life," Holton went on, "to
                        duck when it comes to other people's mistakes. I make enough of my
                        own without shouldering those my friends and relations are responsible
                        forparticularly my relations. For example, if dear old Fred wants to throw
                        himself away on a farm, that's his trouble. I did all I could to
                        save him. And when I had done that, I had done my best, and I'm a
                        busy man with troubles of my own!"
                    Her reception of this was not wholly satisfactory. She made in fact no reply
                        at all.
                    "Excuse me," she said, hearing steps unmistakably;
                        "I think maybe father is on the floor above. If you will wait here,
                        I'll run up and see."
                    He saw her erect for the first time as she passed him. Her  apparent languor as she swung in the old
                        creaky chair had belied what was evidently her more natural manner. The few
                        steps necessary to carry her from the desk to the door were taken lightly,
                        with a long, free stride. Captain Wilson, in apostrophizing her as the Diana
                        of Main Street, had paid no inappropriate tribute to Phil's
                        graceful carriage. Holton rose as she crossed the room, noting her brown
                        cheek, the golden glint in her hair, her finely modeled features, her clear
                        brown eyes and their dark lashes. His eyes still rested upon the door for a
                        moment after it had closed upon her. Then he struck the floor with his
                        stick, and whistled softly. "Lordy!" he ejaculated.
                    Phil accused herself of dullness in not having thought earlier of the
                        photograph gallery. Her father must have been conducting himself very
                        quietly there or she would have heard him before. It had been a bright day
                        and he had undoubtedly been taking advantage of the sun to do his printing.
                        She had always encouraged his experiments in photography, which afforded him
                        one of his few recreations. He owned a fine camera and he gave to every
                        detail of the photographer's art the care he bestowed upon anything
                        that deeply interested him. They had bound in portfolios many of the views
                        obtained in their adventures afield, and he had won prizes at state and
                        national exhibitions of camera societies. Phil was relieved to know that he
                        was developing these newest plates, for now there would be no excuse for
                        retaining the deserted gallery and it could be turned over to Bernstein
                        without further delay.
                    It had grown late, and even under the glazed roof she did not at once make
                        him out.
                    "Daddy!" she called softly.
                    She had broken in upon one of his deep reveries, and as she spoke he started
                        guiltily. The oblong of glass he had been holding, staring at in the
                        lessening light, fell with a crash, breaking into countless pieces.
                    "Oh, daddy! Did I scare you like that! Hope it was n't one
                        of the best negatives that went to smashhard luck  to wipe one of those Autumn on Sugar Creek gems out of
                        existence!"
                    "It's all right, Philall right. It was only an old
                        negative. I was looking over the rubbish here and amused myself by printing
                        some of the old plates. There are a lot of old ghosts hidden away there in
                        the closet. This was an old shop, you know, dating back to the Civil War,
                        and there are negatives here of a lot of our local heroes. I wonder if
                        it's right to throw them away? It's like exterminating a
                        generation to destroy them. There must be people who would like to have
                        prints of some of these."
                    "We might sell them to that new photographer for money enough to
                        paint the building," she suggested. "The real owner would
                        owe us a lot of rent if he ever turned up, which he never will. That would
                        be our only way of getting even."
                    "There spoke a practical mind, Phil!"
                    She knew from the poor result of his effort to appear cheery that something
                        had occurred to depress him. His own associations with Montgomery had been
                        too recent for the resurrection of old citizens to have any deep
                        significance for him.
                    "We must go, Phil; I did n't mean for you to catch me here.
                        I've wasted the whole afternoonbut some of the Sugar Creek views
                        have come out wonderfully. We must clean up and turn the room over to
                        Bernstein right away."
                    Her alert eyes marked the Sugar Creek pictures at one end of a shelf built
                        against the window, but from his position at the moment she had surprised
                        him in his brooding she knew that he had not been studying them. Nor did
                        these new prints from old plates present likenesses of Montgomery's
                        heroes of the sixties; but there were threea little quaint by reason of the
                        costumesof a child, a girl of fourteen, and a young woman; and no second
                        glance was necessary to confirm her instant impression that these
                        represented her motherthe mother of whom she had no memory whatever. There
                        were photographs and a miniature of her mother at home, and at times she had
                        dreamed over them; and  there was a portrait
                        done by an itinerant artist which hung in her Uncle Amzi's house,
                        but this, her Aunt Josephine had once told her, did not in the least
                        resemble Lois.
                    Kirkwood tried clumsily to hide the prints.
                    "No; Phil, please don't!" he exclaimed
                        harshly.
                    "Of course, I may see them, daddy,of course!"
                    He allowed her to take them from him.
                    "It's mamma," said Phil. "How dear they
                        are!" she murmured softly.
                    As she turned the prints to catch the dimming light, he watched her, standing
                        inertly with his elbow on the shelf.
                    "Is n't it odd that I never saw any of these! even Uncle
                        Amy has n't them."
                    She bent over the print of the child, who stood with a hoop, smiling as
                        though in delight at her belated rescue from oblivion.
                    "You were going to give these to me, were n't you,
                        daddy?" She was running over the others. One that showed the mature
                        woman in a fur cape long out of fashion and with a fur cap perched on her
                        head, held her longest.
                    "If you want them," said her father, "you shall
                        have them, of course. I will touch them up a bit in the
                        morning."
                    "Maybe," said Phil looking at him quickly, "it is
                        better not to keep them. Was it one of these plates that
                        broke?"
                    "Yes," said Kirkwood; "it was this one";
                        and he indicated the picture that revealed his wife in her young
                        womanhood.
                    It was over this that he had been dreaming alone in the dim gallery when she
                        had interrupted his reverie. The pity of it all, the bleak desolation of his
                        life, smote her sharply, now that she had caught a glimpse of the ghosts
                        scampering off down the long vistas. With an abrupt gesture she flung aside
                        the melancholy reminder of his tragedy.
                    "Dear old daddy!" She held him in her strong arms and
                        kissed him.
                    She felt that all these spectres must be driven back into  their world of shadows, and she seized the
                        prints and tore them until only little heaps of paper remained and these she
                        scattered upon the floor.
                    "Are these the plates?"
                    He indicated them with a nod. One after the other they crashed echoingly in
                        the bare gallery. She accomplished the destruction swiftly and with
                        certainty. One that fell on edge undamaged she broke with her heel.
                    Then she took a match from his pocket and lit the gas in one of the old
                        burners. The light revealed a slight smile on his face, but it was not his
                        accustomed smile of good humor. His eyes were very sad and gentle.
                    "Thank you, dear old Phil! I guess that's the best way,
                        after all. It must be time to go home now. Are you ready?"
                    "Wait here a minuteyou had better pull down the windows and lock up.
                        I'll close the office and you can meet me on the
                        landing."
                    She went out, closing the door, and ran down to the office, where Charles
                        Holton stood at the window looking out upon Main Street, where the electric
                        lamps were just sputtering into light.
                    "Ah," he cried turning toward her with a bow,
                        "I'd begun to think you had forgotten my unworthy presence
                        on earth!"
                    "Not at all, Mr. Holton. I'm sorry, but my father is too
                        much engaged to see you to-day. If you really want to see him you can come
                        in to-morrow."
                    This was not what he had expected. Dismissal was in her tone rather more than
                        in her words. Their eyes met for a moment in the dim dusk and he would have
                        prolonged the contact; but she walked to the desk and stood there, looking
                        down at the copy of "Elia" which lay as she had left it
                        when he had interrupted her reading. She refused to be conscious of his
                        disappointment or to make amends for having caused him to wait needlessly.
                        He turned at the door.
                    
                    "I hope I have n't put you to any inconvenience?"
                        he remarked, but without resentment.
                    "Not at all, Mr. Holton. Good-afternoon!"
                    "Good-day, Miss Kirkwood."
                    She listened until his step died away down the stair and then went out and
                        whistled for her father.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VIII
                    LISTENING HILL
                    THE Holton farmhouse, a pretentious place in the day of
                        Frederick Holton's grandfather, was now habitable and that was the
                        most that could be said for it. When the second generation spurned the soil
                        and became urbanized, the residence was transformed from its primal state
                        into a country home, and the family called it "Listening Hill
                        Farm." Its austere parlor of the usual rural type was thrown
                        together with the living-room, the original fireplace was reconstructed, and
                        running water was pumped to the house by means of a windmill. The best of
                        the old furniture had been carried off to adorn the town house, so that when
                        Fred succeeded to the ownership it was a pretty bare and comfortless place.
                        Samuel had never lived there, though the farm had fallen to him in the
                        distribution of his father's estate; but he had farmed it at long
                        range, first from Montgomery, and latterly, and with decreasing success,
                        from Indianapolis after his removal to the capital. The year before
                        Fred's arrival no tenant had been willing to take it owing to the
                        impoverished state of the land.
                    Most of the farms in the neighborhood were owned by town people, and operated
                        by tenants. As for Fred, he knew little about agriculture. On the Mexican
                        plantation which his father and Uncle William had controlled, he had learned
                        nothing that was likely to prove of the slightest value in his attempt to
                        wrest a living from these neglected Hoosier acres. His main qualifications
                        for a farming career were a dogged determination to succeed and a vigorous,
                        healthy body.
                    The Holtons had always carried their failures lightly, and  even Samuel, who had died at Indianapolis
                        amid a clutter of dead or shaky financial schemes, was spoken of kindly in
                        Montgomery. Samuel had saved himself with the group of politicians he had
                        persuaded to invest in the Mexican mine by selling out to a German syndicate
                        just before he died; and Samuel had always made a point of taking care of
                        his friends. He had carried through several noteworthy promotion schemes
                        with profit before his Mexican disasters, and but for the necessity of
                        saving harmless his personal and political friends he might not have left so
                        little for his children. So spake the people of Montgomery.
                    Charles Holton was nearing thirty, and having participated in his
                        father's political adventures, and been initiated into the
                        mysteries of promotion, he had a wide acquaintance throughout central
                        Indiana. He had been graduated from Madison, and in his day at college had
                        done much to relieve the gray Calvinistic tone of that sedate institution.
                        It was he who had transformed the old "college chorus"it
                        had been a "chorus" almost from the foundationinto a glee
                        club, and he had organized the first guitar and banjo club. The pleasant
                        glow he left behind him still hung over the campus when Fred entered four
                        years later. Charles's meteoric social career had dimmed the fact
                        (save to a few sober professors) that he had got through by the skin of his
                        teeth. Fred's plodding ways, relieved only by his prowess at
                        football, had left a very different impression. Fred worked hard at his
                        studies because he had to; and even with persistence and industry he had not
                        shone brilliantly in the scientific courses he had elected. The venerable
                        dean once said that Fred was a digger, not a skimmer and skipper, and that
                        he would be all right if only he dug long enough. He was graduated without
                        honors and went South to throw in his fortunes with his father's
                        Mexican projects. He was mourned at the college as the best all-round player
                        a Madison eleven had ever boasted; but this was about all.
                    When he accepted Listening Hill Farm as his share of his father's
                        estate, Fred had a little less than one thousand dollars  in cash, which he had saved from the salaries
                        paid him respectively by the plantation and mining companies. This had been
                        deposited as a matter of convenience in an Indianapolis bank and he allowed
                        it to remain there. He realized that this money must carry him a long way,
                        and that every cent must go into the farm before anything came out of it. He
                        had moved to the farm late in the summerjust in time to witness the abundant
                        harvests of his neighbors.
                    One of the friendliest of these was a young man named Perry, who had charge
                        of Amzi Montgomery's place. Perry belonged to the new school of
                        farmers, and he had done much in the four years that he had been in the
                        banker's employ to encourage faith in "book
                        farming," as it had not yet ceased to be called derisively. He was
                        a frank, earnest, hardworking fellow whose ambition was to get hold of a
                        farm of his own as quickly as possible. He worked Amzi's farm on
                        shares, with certain privileges in the matter of feeding cattle. Amzi picked
                        him up by chance and with misgivings; but Perry had earned the biggest
                        dividends the land had ever paid. Perry confided to Fred a hope he had
                        entertained of leasing the Holton farm for himself when his contract with
                        Montgomery expired. Now that Fred had arrived on the scene he explained to
                        the tyro exactly what he had meant to do with the property. As he had
                        seriously canvassed the situation for a couple of years, witnessing the
                        failures of the last two tenants employed by Samuel Holton, Fred gladly
                        availed himself of his advice.
                    Fred caught from Perry the spirit of the new era in farming. It no longer
                        sufficed to scratch the earth with a stick and drop in a seed; the earth
                        itself must be studied as to its weaknesses and the seed must be chosen with
                        intelligent care. One of the experts from the state agricultural school, in
                        the field to gather data for statistics, passed through the country, and
                        spent a week with Fred for the unflattering reason that the Holton acres
                        afforded material for needed information as to exhausted soils. He
                        recommended books for Fred to read, and what was more to the point sent a
                             young man to plan his work and initiate
                        him into the mysteries of tilling and fertilizing. The soil expert was an
                        enthusiast, and he left behind him the nucleus of a club which he suggested
                        that the young men of the neighborhood enlarge during the winter for the
                        discussion of new methods of farm efficiency.
                    Fred hired a man and went to work. He first repaired the windmill and assured
                        the water-supply of the house and barn. A farmer unembarrassed by crops, he
                        planned his campaign a year ahead. He worked harder on his barren acres than
                        his neighbors with the reward of their labor in sight. He tilled the low
                        land in one of his fallow fields and repaired the fences wherever necessary.
                        His most careful scrutiny failed to disclose anything on which money could
                        be realized at once beyond half a dozen cords of wood which he sent to town
                        and sold and the apples he had offered for sale in the streets of
                        Montgomery. These by-products hardly paid for the time required to market
                        them. Perry had suggested that winter wheat be tried on fifty acres which he
                        chose for the experiment, and in preparing and sowing the land Fred found
                        his spirits rising. The hired man proved to be intelligent and capable, and
                        Fred was not above learning from him. Fred did the cooking for both of them
                        as part of his own labor.
                    Some of his old friends, meeting him in Main Street on his visits to town,
                        commiserated him on his lot; and others thought William Holton ought to do
                        something for Fred, as it was understood that he was backing Charles in his
                        enterprises. Still other gossips, pointing to the failure of the Mexican
                        ventures, inclined to the belief that Fred was a dull fellow, and that he
                        would do as well on the farm as anywhere else.
                    On a Sunday afternoon in this same November, Fred had cleaned up after his
                        midday meal with the hired man and was sprawled on an old settle reading
                        when a motor arrived noisily in the dooryard. Charles was driving and with
                        him were three strangers. Fred went out to meet his brother, who  introduced his companions as business men
                        from Indianapolis.
                    "We're taking a run over the route of the new trolley line
                        you've probably read about in the papers. Had n't heard of
                        it yet? Well, it's going to cut the Sycamore line at right angles
                        in Montgomery, and run down into the coal fields. We're going to
                        haul coal by electricitya new idea in these partsand it's going to
                        be a big factor in stimulating manufactures in small centers. It's
                        going to be a big thing for this sectionyour farm is worth twenty dollars
                        more an acre just on our prospectus."
                    "No doubt you'd be glad to take that twenty right
                        now," remarked one of the strangers.
                    "Oh, I'll wait for it," replied Fred,
                        laughing.
                    "Are you implying that you're likely to have to
                        wait?" demanded Charles. "My dear boy, we're
                        doing this just for you farmers. In the old days the railroads were all in
                        league against the poor but honest farmer; he was crippled as much as he was
                        helped by the railroads; but with the trolley the farmer can be in the deal
                        from the jump. We want every farmer on this line to have an interest;
                        we're going to give him a chance to go in. Am I right,
                        Evans?"
                    "Evans warmed to the topic. He was a young broker and wore city
                        clothes quite as good as Charles's. It was going to be a great
                        thing for the country people; the possibilities of the trolley line had not
                        yet been realized. Social and economic conditions were to be revolutionized,
                        and the world generally would be a very different place when the proposed
                        line was built. Charles allowed his friends to do most of the talking and
                        they discussed the project eloquently for an hour.
                    The men refused Fred's invitation to go indoors, and said they would
                        walk to the highway and the machine could pick them up.
                    When the brothers were alone, Charles spoke of the farm.
                    "I see you've got to work. The whole thing looks better
                        than I ever saw it. I'm glad you've painted the barn red;
                             there's nothing like red for a
                        barn. I must make a note of that; all barns should be painted
                        red."
                    With a gesture he colored all the barns in the world to his taste. Fred
                        grinned his appreciation of his brother's humor.
                    "I thought that on Sundays all you young farmers hitched a side-bar
                        buggy to a colt and gave some pretty girl a good time."
                    "I'd be doing just that but for two reasonsI have
                        n't the colt or the side-bar, and I don't know any girls.
                        What about this trolley line? I thought the field was crowded
                        now."
                    "Oh, Uncle Will and I are going to put this one through and
                        we're going to make some money out of it, too. There's
                        money in these things if you know how to handle 'em. It's
                        in the promotion, not the operating."
                    "But I heard in town that the Sycamore line is n't doing
                        well. There are rumors"
                    "Oh, I know about that; it's only a fuss among the fellows
                        who are trying to control it to reorganize and squeeze the bondholders. If
                        father had lived he'd have kept it level. But we're all
                        out of itaway out and up the street."
                    "Glad to hear it," Fred remarked. The gift of easy and
                        picturesque speech had been denied him. All his life he had heard his father
                        talk in just this strain; and his Uncle William, while less voluble, was
                        even more persuasive and convincing. Charles did not always ring true, but
                        any deficiencies in this respect were compensated for by his agreeable and
                        winning manners. Fred had the quiet man's distrust of ready
                        talkers; but he admired his brother. Charles was no end of a bright fellow
                        and would undoubtedly get on.
                    "I tell you what I'll do with you, old man"
                        Charles continued. "I suppose you already know some of these
                        farmers around here. We're going to give them every chance to go in
                        with uslet 'em in on the ground floor. We feel that this should be
                        the people's line in the broadest sense, give 'em a share
                        of the benefits,not merely that they can flip a can of milk on board one of
                        our cars and hustle it  direct to the consumer
                        and get back coal right at their door, but they shall participate in the
                        profits they help to create. Now listen to this; there's not much
                        you can do this winter out here and I stopped to make you an offer to
                        solicit stock subscriptions among the country people. A lot of these farmers
                        are rich fellows,the farmers are getting altogether too much money for their
                        own good,and here's an ideal investment for them, a chance to add
                        to the value of their farms and at the same time earn a clean six per cent
                        on our bonds and share in the profits on a percentage of common that
                        we're giving bondholders free gratis for nothing. What do you say
                        to taking a hand with us? We'll put you on a salary right away if
                        you say so. The very fact that you've chosen to come here to live
                        and take up farming will give you standing with the country
                        folks."
                    Fred smiled at this.
                    "On the other side of the sketch the fact that I'm as
                        ignorant of farming as the man in the moon is likely to rouse their
                        suspicions. I'm much obliged, Charlie, but my job's right
                        here. I'm going to try to raise something that I can haul to town
                        in a wagon and get money for. I have n't your business genius. It
                        would seem queer to me to go about asking people to take their money out of
                        the bank to give me in exchange for pieces of paper that might not be good
                        in the end. And besides, a good many of these country people swallowed the
                        same hook when it was baited with Sycamore. It's not a good time to
                        try the same bait in this neighborhood,not for the Holton family, at any
                        rate."
                    "Mossback! I tell you we're out of Sycamore with clean
                        hands. Don't you know that the big fellows in New York are the men
                        who get in on such promotions as this and clean up on it! I'm
                        giving you a chance that lots of men right here in this county would jump
                        at. It's a little short of a miracle that a trolley coal road has
                        n't been built already. And think, too, of the prestige our family
                        will get out of it. We've always been the only people in Montgomery
                        that had any 'git up and git.' You don't want to
                        forget that your name Holton is an  assetan
                        asset! Why, over in Indianapolis the fact that I'm one of the
                        Montgomery Holtons helps me over a lot of hard places, I can tell you. Of
                        course, father had plowed the ground, and the more I hear about him the more
                        I admire him. He had visionhe saw things ahead."
                    "And he came pretty near dying busted," observed Fred.
                    "But no man lost a cent through him!" Charles flashed.
                    "That makes me swell up with pride every time I think of it that he
                        took care of his friends. He saw things big, and those Mexican schemes were
                        all right. If he'd lived, they would have pulled through and been
                        big moneymakers."
                    They had been walking slowly towards Charles's machine.
                    "I'm not saying anything against father," said
                        Fred; "but the kind of things he took up strike me as dangerous. I
                        know all about that plantation and the mine, too, for that matter. I
                        don't blame father for sending me down there, but I wish I had back
                        the years I put on those jobs."
                    "Oh, rot! The experience was a big thing for you. And you got paid
                        for it. You must have saved some money was n't any way to spend
                        money down there."
                    "I don't keep an automobile," remarked Fred
                        ruefully.
                    "By Jove, I can't afford it myself, but I've got
                        to make a front. Now those fellows"
                    His companions were hallooing from the highway to attract his attention. He
                        waved and shouted that he was coming.
                    "Those fellows are in touch with a lot of investors. Nice chaps. I
                        promised to get 'em home for dinner, and I must skip.
                        You'd better think over my proposition before turning it down for
                        good. I don't like to think of your being out here all winter doing
                        nothing. You might as well take a hand with us. I'll guarantee that
                        you won't regret it."
                    "I don't believe I care to try it. I'm a born
                        rube, I guess; I like it out here. And I'm going to stick until I
                        make good or bust."
                    Charles had cranked his machine and jumped in.
                    "Look here, Fred," he said, raising his voice above the  noise of the engine, "when I can do
                        anything for you, I want you to call on me. And if you need money at any
                        time, I want you to come to me or go to Uncle Will. In fact, he's a
                        little sore because you don't drop in on him oftener. So
                        long!"
                    The machine went skimming down the road, and when it reached the pike and
                        Charles picked up his friends, Fred watched its slow ascent of Listening
                        Hill, and waited for it to disappear beyond the crest.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IX
                    ON AN ORCHARD SLOPE
                    FRED moved off across the fields in quest of Perry.
                        Charles never left him wholly happy. His long absence from home had in a way
                        lessened his reliance on family ties, and an interview with his brother
                        deepened the sense of his own dullness. He wondered whether it were not
                        proof of his general worthlessness that he was so quickly adjusting himself
                        to the conditions of rural life; and yet from such reflections his spirit
                        quickly rebounded. In the very soil itself, he felt a kinship, born of a
                        hidden, elusive, cramped vein of poetic feeling that lay deep in his nature.
                        All life, he vaguely realized, is of a piece: man and the earth to which he
                        is born respond to the same laws. He contemplated the wheatfield, tilled
                        partly by his own hands, with a stirring of the heart that was new to his
                        experience. He was wedded to this land; his hope was bound up in it; and he
                        meant to serve it well.
                    He sprang over the fence into a woods pasture on Amzi Montgomery's
                        farm and strode on. He picked up a walnut and carried it in his hand,
                        sniffing the pungent odor of the rind. It was as warm as spring, and the
                        dead leaves, crisp and crackling under his tread, seemed an anomaly. The
                        wood behind him, he crossed a pasture toward the barn and hesitated, seeing
                        that Perry was entertaining visitors. He had fallen into the habit of
                        dropping in at the Perrys' on Sunday afternoons and he was expected
                        to-day, so he kept on. As he reached the barn lot, he identified Amzi
                        Montgomery and Phyllis Kirkwood, to whom Perry was apparently dilating on
                        the good points of a Jersey calf that was eyeing the visitors
                        wonderingly.
                    "Don't be afraid, Holton; my lecture is just over.
                        You've  heard it before and
                        I'm not going to repeat it," Perry called to him.
                    "How do you do, Mr. Holton," said Phil.
                    He pulled off his hat and walked up to shake hands with her.
                    "I did n't expect to find you here. I usually come over
                        Sunday afternoons."
                    "Does that mean you would n't have come if you'd
                        known we were here!" laughed Phil. "Oh, Uncle Amy, this is
                        Mr. Fred Holton. He's your next-door neighbor."
                    Amzi turned from his observation of the calf and took the cigar from his
                        mouth. He remembered Fred Holton as a boy and the young man had latterly
                        fallen within his range of vision in Main Street. He availed himself of this
                        nearer view to survey Samuel Holton's younger son deliberately.
                        Fred waited an instant for the banker to make a sign. Amzi took a step
                        toward him and Fred advanced and offered his hand.
                    "How d' ye do, Fred," said Amzi, and looked him
                        over again. He addressed him quite as cordially as he would have spoken to
                        any other young man he might have found there.
                    "Perry has told me about you. I guess you've got quite a
                        job over there."
                    "Yes, but I was looking for a job when I took it," said
                        Fred.
                    "I like being a farmer myself," said the banker,
                        "when I know the corn 's growing while I'm in bed
                        in town."
                    "I think I'll stay up nights to watch my corn grow, if it
                        ever does," said Fred.
                    "That land of yours is all right," said Amzi amiably,
                        "but it's got to be brought up. That farm's been
                        cursed with overdrafts, and overdrafts in any business are
                        bad."
                    "That's a new way of putting it," Fred replied,
                        "but I'm sure it's sound doctrine. You
                        can't take out what you don't put in."
                    "That," said Amzi, feeling in his pocket for his matchbox,
                        "is a safe general principle."
                    
                    He passed his cigar-case to Perry and Fred, commended his own cigars
                        humorously, and looked Fred over again as the young man refused, explaining
                        that he had grown used to a pipe and was afraid of the shock to his system
                        of a good cigar.
                    "We were going to take a walk over the place; Mr. Montgomery wants
                        to see his orchard. Come along, won't you?" said
                        Perry.
                    Fred waited for a confirmation of the tenant's invitation.
                    "Yes; come along, Fred," said Amzi.
                    His manner toward Holton was that of an old acquaintance; he called him Fred
                        quite as though it were the most natural thing in the world for him to do
                        so. Phil and Perry moved off together and Amzi walked along beside Fred
                        across a field of wheat stubble toward the orchard that stretched away on a
                        slope that corresponded to the rise of Listening Hill in the highway. He
                        talked of fruit-growing in which he appeared to be deeply interested, and
                        declared that there was no reason why fruit should be only an insectblighted
                        by-product of such farms as his; that intelligent farmers were more and more
                        taking it up. He confessed his firm belief in scientific farming in all its
                        branches. Most men in small towns keep some touch with the soil. In a place
                        like Montgomery the soil is the immediate source of urban prosperity, and in
                        offices and stores men discuss crop conditions and prospects as a matter of
                        course. Amzi owned a number of farms in different parts of the county, but
                        this one that had been long in the family was his particular pride. He
                        paused now and then to point out features of his possessions for
                        Fred's admiration.
                    "Land," he observed reflectively, "is like a man
                        or a horse; you got to treat 'em right or they won't work.
                        Thunder! You think you'll stick it out over there, do
                        you?"
                    "I've got to; and I want to! I want to make it
                        go!"
                    Amzi glared at him a moment with puffed cheeks. Fred had spoken with warmth,
                        and being unfamiliar with the banker's habit of trying to blow up
                        occasionally, for no  reason whatever, he was
                        a little appalled by Amzi's manner of receiving his
                        declaration.
                    "If you mean it like that," said the banker, "you
                        will make it go. It's the wanting to do a thing real hard that
                        brings it round. Is that gospel?"
                    He blurted his question with a ferociousness that again startled Fred; but he
                        was beginning to suspect that this was the banker's usual way of
                        conversing, and his awe of him diminished. Amzi was an amusing person, with
                        a tang of his own; and he clearly meant to be kind. It was necessary to
                        answer the banker's last explosion and Fred replied soberly:
                    "I hope it is; I hope the wanting to do it will help in the
                        doing."
                    Amzi made no response to this. He seemed to ignore it, and spoke of Perry
                        admiringly, as the kind of man he liked, quoting statistics of the wheat
                        yield of the field they were traversing, and then stopped abruptly.
                    "Thunder! How did they come to give you the farm?"
                    "I took it: I chose to take it. It was by an agreement between my
                        brother and sister and me. I'm not sure but that I got the best of
                        the partition. The stocks and bonds father left did n't mean
                        anything to me. I don't know anything about such
                        things."
                    "They let you have the farm as your share; you were afraid of the
                        other stuff?"
                    "Yes; it did n't look very good and I was perfectly
                        satisfied. I thought the arrangement fair enough to me: Charlie knew about
                        the other things and I did n't. Most of them were very
                        doubtful."
                    "They told you they were doubtful; you did n't know
                        anything about them. Was that the way of it?"
                    "Yes; that was about the way of it, Mr. Montgomery."
                    Amzi glared and drew out his handkerchief to mop his face.
                    "I saw an automobile come out of your place awhile ago and climb the
                        hill toward town. Charlie been to see you?"
                    
                    "Yes. He had some friends with him from the city. Charlie knows no
                        end of people."
                    "There are people like that," said Amzi, kicking a clod,
                        and in doing so nearly losing his equilibrium; "there are people
                        with a talent for knowing folks." This was not an important
                        observation, nor was it at all relevant. Mr. Montgomery had merely gone as
                        far as he cared to in the discussion of the distribution of Samuel
                        Holton's estate and this was his way of changing the subject.
                    Amzi walked ahead with Perry when they met at the edge of the orchard and
                        Phil loitered behind with Fred. A hawk swung from the cloudless blue;
                        sparrows, disturbed by these visitors, flew down the orchard aisles in
                        panic. The air was as dry as the stubble of the shorn fields. From the
                        elevation crowned by the orchard it was possible to survey the neighborhood
                        and Phil and Fred paused in silence for several minutes, with their faces
                        turned toward the creek.
                    Seeing Phil thus was very different from seeing her across a fence in the
                        moonlight, or meeting her at her kitchen door. Her new dark-blue gown with
                        hat to match struck him as being very stylish, as indeed, they were, having
                        come from the best shop in Indianapolis. Phil in gloves was a different
                        Phil, a remote being quite out of hailing distance. He was torn between
                        admiration for her dressed-upness and rebellion against a splendor that set
                        her apart like a goddess for timorous adoration. Standing beside and a
                        little behind her, his soul was shaken by the quick shadowings of her
                        lashes. He was so deep in thought during this silent contemplation that he
                        started and blushed when she turned round suddenly.
                    "We're terribly solemn, I think," she remarked,
                        regarding him carelessly.
                    This was unfair. She had no right to look at him in that fashion, taking his
                        breath away and saying something to which he could think of no reply
                        whatever. Amzi and Perry had wandered away out of sight. She had spoken of
                        solemnity; it was a solemn thing to be alone with a girl like Phil, on a day
                        like this, under a fleckless sky, and with the scarlet  maples and the golden beeches gladdening the distances.
                        Without looking at him, Phil extended her monologue:
                    "I like cheerfulness myself."
                    "I'm not so opposed to it as you may imagine," he
                        replied, smiling. "I'm not much of a talker. I've
                        been alone a whole lot, in lonesome places where there was n't
                        anybody to talk to. I suppose talking is a habit. When there are people
                        around who talk about things it's natural to get into the way of
                        talking. Is n't that so?"
                    "I suspect it is," Phil answered. "While my
                        critics have n't exactly said that I talk too much, they agree that
                        I talk at the wrong time. Let's all be seated."
                    She dropped down on the grass, and smoothed her skirt. It was the best
                        everyday dress she had ever owned and she meant to be careful of it. Her
                        patent leather oxford ties were the nicest she had ever had, and she was not
                        without her pride in their brightness. Fred seated himself near her. His
                        clothes were his Sunday best, and none too good at that; he was painfully
                        conscious of the contrast of their raiment.
                    "Your brother Charlie talks a good deal. I saw him the other
                        day," said Phil.
                    "Yes; Charlie talks mighty well. He can talk to anybody. Where did
                        you meet him?"
                    "In town, at father's office."
                    "Oh; he was there, was he?"
                    It was plain that Fred was surprised that there should be any intercourse
                        between the Kirkwoods and his brother.
                    "He called to see father; but he did n't see him,"
                        explained Phil, as though reading his thoughts and willing to satisfy his
                        curiosity.
                    "Charlie's getting up a new trolley line. He wanted me to
                        go in with him."
                    "Gave you a chance to escape from your farm? I should think you
                        would be tempted."
                    "I did n't feel the temptation particularly,"
                        answered Fred; "but it was kind of him to come and see
                        me."
                    "Well, there is that," Phil replied indifferently.
                        "You  seemed to get on first-rate
                        with Uncle Amy. Was that the first time you ever talked to
                        him?"
                    "Yes. But I remember that once when I was a little chap he met me in
                        the street over by the collegeI remember the exact spotand gave me a penny.
                        I seem to remember that he used to do that with children quite unexpectedly.
                        I imagine that he does a lot of nice things for people."
                    "Uncle Amy," said Phil deliberately, "is the
                        second grandest man now present on earth. Daddy is the first."
                    "I don't know your father, except as I see him in the
                        street."
                    "I suppose not," said Phil.
                    These commonplaces were leading nowhere, and they were becoming the least bit
                        trying.
                    "My aunts have decided that the Montgomerys and the Holtons might as
                        well bury the hatchet. They're going to ask your Uncle William to
                        my party. They can't stand not knowing your aunt."
                    He did not at once grasp this. He was only dimly conscious of Montgomery
                        social values and the prominence of his Uncle William's wife had
                        not seemed to him a matter of importance. His acquaintance with that lady
                        was indeed slight, and he did not see at once wherein Phil's aunts
                        had anything to gain by cultivating her society, nor did Phil enlighten him.
                        This turn of the talk embarrassed him by its suggestion of the escapade in
                        which Phil's mother and his uncle had figured. Phil was not
                        apparently troubled by this.
                    "They did n't invite you to my party, did
                        they?"
                    He did not know exactly whom she meant by "they"; and he
                        had not heard of Phil's party.
                    "No," he answered, smiling; "they probably never
                        heard of me."
                    "Well, you will be invited. Your brother and sister are coming. Your
                        brother Charlie told me so. He's going to give up a trip to New
                        York just to be there."
                    Phil, he reflected, had been pleased by Charles's magnanimity  in changing plans that embraced the magical
                        name of New York to be present at her coming-out party. From his knowledge
                        of his brother he felt quite sure that Charles must think it worth while to
                        abandon the visit to New York to pay the tribute of his presence to a
                        daughter of the Montgomerys. This contributed to Fred's
                        discomfiture and made it more difficult to talk to Phil. On the face of it
                        Phil was not a difficult person. He had seen her dance round a cornshock in
                        the moonlight, and a girl who would do that ought to be easy to talk to; and
                        he had seen her, aproned at her kitchen door, throw an apple at a cat with
                        enviable exactness of aim, and a girl who threw apples at cats should be
                        human and approachable. It must be her smart city frock that made the
                        difference: he hated Phil's clothes, and he resented with
                        particular animosity the gloves that concealed her hands.
                    She saw the frown on his face.
                    "I don't believe I heard you say whether you were coming to
                        my party or not. If you expect to travel about that time you need
                        n't put yourself out, of course. You shall have one of our regular
                        engraved invitations. How do you get mail out here?" she ended
                        practically.
                    "R.F.D. 7. It will be thrilling to get something out of that
                        bird's nest besides bills, fertilizer and incubator circulars, and
                        the bulletins of the Department of Agriculture. Thank you very much. But if,
                        after conferring with your aunts, you find that they don't approve
                        of me, it will be all right."
                    "You have funny thoughts in your head, don't you?
                        Don't you suppose I'm going to have something to say about
                        my own party? Just for a postscript I'll tell you now that I expect
                        you to come. If I've got to have a party I want to have as many
                        fellow-sufferers as possible."
                    "Does that mean"and Fred laughed"that you are not
                        terribly excited about your own party? It sounded that way."
                    He was not interested in parties himself; he had hardly  been to one since he was a child, and the thought of such an
                        imposing function as he assumed Phil's coming out would be appalled
                        him. And there was the matter of clothes: the dress-suit he had purchased
                        while he was in college had gone glimmering long ago. The Sunday best he
                        wore to-day was two years old, and a discerning eye might have detected its
                        imperfections which a recent careful pressing had not wholly obliterated.
                        His gaze turned for a moment toward the land in which lay his hope; he had
                        to look past Phil to see those acres. His thoughts were still upon her party
                        and his relation to it, so that it was with a distinct shock that he heard
                        her say softly and wistfully:
                    "It's queer, is n't it?"
                    "What is?"
                    She lifted her arm with a sweeping gesture.
                    "The worldthings generallywhat interests you and me; what interests
                        Uncle Amy and Mr. Perry; the buzzings in all our noddles. Thousands of
                        people, in towns just like Montgomery, live along some way or other, and
                        most of them do the best they can, and keep out of jails and poorhouses,
                        mostly, and nothing very important happens to them or has to. It always
                        strikes me as odd how unimportant we all are. We're just us, and if
                        God did n't make us very big or wise or good, why, there's
                        nothing to be done about it. And no matter how hard we get knocked, or how
                        often we stumble, why, most of us like the game and would n't give
                        it up for anything. I think that's splendid; the way we just keep
                        plugging on. We all think something pleasant is going to happen to-morrow or
                        day-after-to-morrow. Everybody does. And that's what keeps the
                        world moving and everybody tolerably cheerful and happy."
                    Phil the philosopher was still another sort of person. She had spoken in her
                        usual tone and he looked at her wonderingly. It was a new experience to hear
                        life reduced to the simple terms Phil used. She seemed to him like a teacher
                        who keeps a dull pupil after class, and, by eliminating all unessential
                        factors, makes clear what an hour before had 
                        been only a jumble of meaningless terms in the student's mind.
                    He was still dumb before this new Phil with her a, b, c philosophy when her
                        eyes brightened, and she sprang to her feet. Bending forward with her hand
                        to her ear, and then dropping her arms to her sides, she said:
                    
                        "Adown the orchard aisles they come, methinks,
                        My lord who guardest well his treasure chests,
                        Attended by his squire and faithful drudge,
                        And back to town I soon must lightly skip
                        Else father will be roaring for his tea.
                    
                    She was, indeed, a mystifying being! It was not until the absurdity of her
                        last line broke upon him that he saw that this was only another side of Phil
                        the inexplicable. She threw up her arm and signaled to her Uncle Amzi, who
                        was approaching with Perry. The interruption was unwelcome. It had been a
                        bewildering experience to sit beside Phil on the sunny orchard slope. He had
                        not known that any girl could be like this.
                    "Do you write poetry?" he asked, from the depths of his
                        humility.
                    She turned with a mockery of disdain.
                    "I should think you could see, Mr. Holton, that these are not
                        singing robes, nor is this lovely creation of a hat wrought in the
                        similitude of a wreath of laurel; but both speak for the plain prose of
                        life. You have, therefore, no reason to fear me."
                    In a moment they were all on their way to the house; and soon Phil and Amzi
                        were driving homeward.
                    "What was Fred Holton talking to you about?" asked Amzi, as
                        he shook the reins over the back of his roadster.
                    "He was n't talking to me, Amy; I was talking to him.
                        He's a nice boy."
                    "He does n't run so much to gold watches and chains as the
                        rest of 'em. He seems to be pretty decent. Perry says he's
                        got the right stuff in him." And then, with more
                        animation:"Those Holtons! Thunder!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER X
                    PHIL'S PARTY
                    MR. AMZI MONTGOMERY
                        thought it only proper to learn all that was possible of the affairs of his
                        customers. This was the part of wisdom in a cautious banker; and he was
                        distressed when checks that were not self-explanatory passed through the
                        receiving-teller's window. A small bank is a good place in which to
                        sharpen one's detective sense. Every check tells a story and is in
                        some degree a clue.
                    No account on his bank's ledgers was more often scrutinized than
                        that of Nancy Bartlett, and when she deposited a draft for $2115.15, the
                        incident was not one to be passed lightly. No such sum had ever before been
                        placed to Nan's credit. He knew that she received five- and ten-
                        and even fifty-dollar drafts from Eastern periodicals, and he had touched
                        these with reverent hands: but two thousand dollars in a lump from one of
                        the best-known publishers in the country staggered Amzi. To add to his
                        mystification, half the amount plus one cent, to-wit, $1057.58, was
                        immediately transferred to Thomas Kirkwood's account, and this left
                        Amzi away up in the air. Just what right Tom Kirkwood had to participate in
                        Nan's earnings Amzi did not know, nor did he see immediately any
                        way of finding out.
                    What did happen, though, coincident with this event, and much to his
                        gratification, was the installation of a girlof-all-work in
                        Kirkwood's house. Phil had been dislodged from the kitchen, and
                        Amzi was mightily relieved by this. A kitchen was no place for his niece,
                        that flower of the Montgomery flock. His spirits rose when Phil hailed him
                        one morning as he stood baring his head to the November air on the bank
                        steps, and told him that her occupation was gone. She made the confession
                        ruefully; it was unfair for her  father to
                        discharge her just as she was getting the hang of the range and learning to
                        broil a steak without incinerating it. "Just for that" she
                        would spend a great deal of time in Main Street, and ruin her constitution
                        at Struby's soda-fountain.
                    While Amzi was still trying to account for Nan's check, two other
                        incidents contributed further to his perplexities. On his way home one
                        evening he saw Nan and Kirkwood walking together. It was only a fair
                        assumption that the two friends had met by chance and that Kirkwood was
                        merely accompanying Nan to her door, as he had every right to do. They were
                        walking slowly and talking earnestly. To avoid passing them, Amzi turned off
                        at the first crossstreet, but stood for a moment staring after them. Then
                        the next evening he had gone to call at the Bartlett's and all his
                        intervening speculations were overthrown when he found Kirkwood there alone
                        with Rose, Nan being, it seemed, in Indianapolis on a visit. Rose and
                        Kirkwood had evidently been deeply engrossed, too, when Amzi interrupted
                        their conference with the usual thump of the drumstick. The piano, he
                        observed, was closed, and it was inexplicable that Kirkwood should be
                        spending an unmusical evening with Rose. Nor was Phil with her father. This
                        was another damaging fact. It was a blow to Amzi to find that such things
                        could happen in his own town, and under his very eyes.
                    If it had n't been for Phil's party, the preparations for
                        which gave him plenty to do, Amzi's winter would have opened most
                        unhappily; but Phil's party was an event of importance not only in
                        her life, but in Amzi's as well. Everybody who had the slightest
                        title to consideration received an invitation. He was glad his sisters had
                        suggested that the Holtons be invited. It gave him an excuse for opening the
                        doors wide. He heard much from his kinsfolk about the prosperity of the
                        Holtons, who were held up to him in rebuke for his own sluggish business
                        methods. He wanted his sisters and the rest of the world to know that the
                        First National Bank of Montgomery aroused in him no jealous pangs.
                    Phil arrived at Amzi's early and ran upstairs to take off  her wraps. When this was accomplished and her
                        Aunt Fanny's housemaid, lent for the occasion, had duly admired
                        her, she knocked boldly on her uncle's door.
                    "Come in, you Phil," he shouted.
                    Amzi stood before his chiffonier in his shirt sleeves, trying to make a bow
                        of his white tie. A cigar, gripped firmly in his teeth, was not proving of
                        much assistance in the operation. As Phil crossed the room, he jerked off
                        the strip of lawn and threw it into the open drawer.
                    "See what you've done? See all that litter? All that stuff
                        crumpled up and wasted just on your account? I told that fellow in
                        Indianapolis to give me the readymade kind that buckles behind, but he would
                        n't listen; said they don't keep 'em any more.
                        And look at that! It's a good thing I got a dozen!
                        Thunder!"
                    The "Thunder" was due to the fact that in his excess of
                        emotion over the difficulties with his raiment, his eyes had not until that
                        instant taken in Phil. His jaw fell as he stared and tears filled his eyes.
                        Above the soft folds of her white cr$eGpe gown the firm clean lines of her
                        shoulders and throat were revealed and for the first time he fully realized
                        that the Phil who had gladdened his days by her pranks Phil the romp and
                        hoydenhad gone, and that she would never be quite the same again. There was
                        a distinct shock in the thought. It carried him back to the day when her
                        mother had danced across the threshold from youth to womanhood, with all of
                        Phil's charm and grace and her heart of laughter.
                    Phil fanned herself languidly, feigning to ignore his bewilderment. An
                        aigrette in her hair emphasized her height. She lifted her arms and,
                        whistling softly, pirouetted about the room. Her movements were those of
                        vigorous, healthy youth. Her eyes were bright and her cheeks aglow.
                    "Thunder!" gasped Amzi, feeling absently of his collar.
                    "Is that you, Phil?"
                    "Generally speaking, it ain't, Amy. What
                        do you think of the gladness of these joyful rags anyhow?"
                    
                    "You look right, Phil. You've grown about six inches since
                        I saw you last. High heels?"
                    She thrust out a slipper for his inspection.
                    "Those clothes are not as bad as some I've seen. I
                        don't mind the low-in-the-neck effect when there's a neck
                        to show like yours. Most of 'em look like the neck of a picked
                        gander. I guess Fanny did about the right thing. Fanny's taste is
                        usually pretty fair."
                    "Oh, the whole syndicate took a hand in it," said Phil with
                        a sigh. "They nearly wore me out; but they were so busy consulting
                        each other that they did n't notice that I chose the cr$cCpe
                        myself. But I wanted you to like my things, Amy."
                    "Of course I like 'em. You certainly look
                        grand."
                    He rummaged in one of the chiffonier drawers.
                    "Just wait a minute," he said; "you've
                        got to fix this fool thing for me." He placed a fresh tie round his
                        white-wing collar and loosely crossed the ends. "I ain't
                        going to take any chances of spoiling this. Now, Phil, do your
                        noblest."
                    "With gloves on? Well, I'm used to doing daddy's
                        over again, so here goes."
                    He stood with his chin in air while she tied the bow. Her youth, her
                        loveliness, her red lips, compressed at the crucial moment when the bow took
                        form, moved and thrilled him. No one in the world had ever been so dear to
                        him as Phil! When she rested her hands on his shoulders and tilted her head
                        to one side to study her handiwork he raised himself on his toes and lifted
                        his hands, in one of which he had concealed something.
                    "Bend your head a little, Phil; I ought to have a ladder for
                        this."
                    And in a moment he drew down upon her neck a chain with a pendant of pearls,
                        which he had chosen with the greatest care at the best jeweler's in
                        Indianapolis.
                    "Now look at yourself!"
                    She sprang to the mirror, and while she was exclaiming over it, he remarked,
                        "I guess it don't make you look much  worse, Phil. But it does n't make you look much
                        nicer. Thunder! Nothing could!"
                    "Amy! I'm going to muss you up!" she cried,
                        wheeling round.
                    "Phildon't you touch me; don't you
                        dare!"
                    He backed away and began drawing on his coat, and she abandoned the idea of
                        mussing him to make sure his tie did n't crawl up over his collar.
                        She clasped him tight and kissed him on the mouth.
                    "What a dear old pal you are, Amy," she said, laying her
                        cheek against his. "Don't you ever think I don't
                        appreciate what you do for mewhat you are to me!"
                    "I guess that's all right, Phil," he said, and
                        turned round to the chiffonier and blew his nose furiously.
                        "Where's Tom?"
                    "I guess daddy's gone downstairs."
                    "Well, most of your aunts are on the job somewhere and we'd
                        better go down and start this party. I hear the fiddlers tuning
                        up."
                    Amzi II had built a big house with a generous hall and large rooms, and it
                        had been a matter of pride with Amzi III to maintain it as it had been,
                        refusing to listen to the advice of his sisters that he shut off part of it.
                        Amzi liked space, and he was not in the least dismayed by problems of
                        housekeeping. In preparing for Phil's party he had had all the
                        white woodwork repainted, and the floors of the drawingand living-rooms had
                        been polished for dancing.
                    In Montgomery functions of all sorts begin early. The number of available
                        public vehicles is limited, and by general consent the citizens take turns
                        in the use of them. There had n't been a party at the Montgomery
                        homestead since the marriage of the last of the Montgomery girls. It was not
                        surprising that to-night many people thought a little mournfully of the
                        marriage of the first! The launching of Phil afforded opportunity for
                        contrasting her with her mother; she was or she was not like Lois; nearly
                        all the old people had an opinion one way or another.
                    
                    Among the early arrivals was Mrs. John Newman King. Mrs. King, at eighty,
                        held her own as the person of chief social importance in town. The
                        Montgomerys were a good second; but their standing was based merely upon
                        long residence and wealth; whereas Mrs. King had to her credit not only
                        these essential elements of provincial distinction, but she had been the
                        wife of a United States Senator in the great days of the Civil War. She had
                        known Lincoln and all the host of wartime heroes. Lincoln, Grant, and
                        Sherman had been her guests right there in Montgomeryat the big place with
                        the elms and beeches, all looking very much today as it did in the stirring
                        sixties. Mrs. King wore a lace cap and very rustling silk, and made pretty
                        little curtsies. She talked politics to gentlemen, and asked women about
                        their babies, and was wholly charming with young girls.
                    She paused before Phil, in the semicircle that included Amzi and his sisters
                        with their husbands, and Tom Kirkwood.
                    "My dear child, on this proud occasion I want to say that the day
                        you fell out of the cherry tree in my back yard and broke your arm and came
                        into the house to get a sand tart as usual before going home, just as though
                        nothing had happened, I loved you and I have loved you ever since. And you
                        did n't cry either!"
                    "I did n't cry, Aunt Jane, because I had n't sense
                        enough to know I'd been hurt!"
                    "You were always a child of spirit! It's spirit that counts
                        in this life. And for all we know in the next one, too. Don't you
                        let all these relations of yours spoil you; I've known all the
                        Montgomerys ever since your great-grandfather came here from Virginia, and
                        you please me more than all the rest of 'em put together. Do you
                        hear that, Amzi!"
                    Amzi was prepared to hear just this; he was nigh to bursting with pride, for
                        Mrs. King was the great lady of the community and her opinion outweighed
                        that of any dozen other women in that quarter of Indiana.
                    Montgomery is just a comfortable, folksy, neighborly  town, small enough to make hypocrisy difficult and
                        unnecessary. In a company like this that marked Phil's entrance
                        upon the great little world, no real Montgomeryite remembered who had the
                        most money, or the costliest automobile, or the largest house. The Madison
                        professors, who never had any hope of earning more than fifteen hundred
                        dollars a year if they lived forever, received the special consideration to
                        which they were entitled; and Judge Walters might be hated by most of the
                        lawyers at the bar for his sharp admonitions from the bench, but they all
                        respected him for his sound attainments and unquestioned probity. Among
                        others who were presented to Phil (as though they had n't known her
                        all her life!) were a general and a colonel and other officers of the line,
                        including Captain Joshua Wilson, poet and county recorder, and the editors
                        of the two newspapers, and lawyers and doctors and shopkeepers, and, yes,
                        clerks who stood behind counters, and insurance agents and the postmaster,
                        all mingling together, they and their children, in the most democratic
                        fashion imaginable.
                    "We're all here," said old General Wilks, who had
                        been a tower of strength in the Army of the Tennessee, "and
                        we're the best people of the best state on earth. I claim the
                        privilege of age, Amzi, to kiss the prettiest girl in Indiana."
                    Beyond question the arrival of the William Holtons, with their niece and
                        nephew from Indianapolis, caused a stir. They were among the late comers,
                        and the curious were waiting to witness their reception, which proved to be
                        disappointingly undramatic. Their welcome in no wise differed from that
                        accorded to other guests. Every one said that Charles Holton was a handsome
                        fellow, and his sister Ethel a very "nice" though rather
                        an insipid and colorless young woman. It was generally understood that
                        Amzi's sisters had forced his hand. The conservatives were disposed
                        to excuse Amzi for permitting the Holtons to be invited; but they thought
                        the Holtons displayed bad taste in accepting. It was Phil's party,
                        and no Holton had any business to be connected with anything that concerned
                        Phil. And Tom  Kirkwood's feelings
                        ought to have been considered, said his old friends.
                    "You see," Charles Holton remarked to Phil, when he had
                        bowed over her hand with a good deal of manner, "I really did give
                        up that New York trip. I would have come back from China to see you in that
                        gown!"
                    The musicians (five artists from the capital, and not the drummer and
                        piano-thumper usually considered adequate in Montgomery for fraternity and
                        class functions) now struck up the first number.
                    "Please give me a lot of dances," begged Charles, looking
                        at Phil's card.
                    "One! Just one!" replied Phil.
                    "You are bound to be a great tyrant; you should be merciful to your
                        humblest subject."
                    "I have n't seen any of the humility yet," she
                        laughed.
                    Her Uncle Lawrence Hastings had undertaken to manage the dance and he glided
                        away with her to the strains of the first waltz. Hastings boasted a velvet
                        collar to his dress-coat, and the town had not yet ceased to marvel that
                        fortune had sent to its door a gentleman so exquisite, so finished, so
                        identified with the most fascinating of all the arts. Hastings had for the
                        social affairs of Montgomery a haughty scorn. It pained him greatly to be
                        asked to a neighbor's for "supper," particularly
                        when it was quite likely that the hostess would herself cook and serve the
                        food; and the Fortnightly Assembly, a club of married folk that met to dance
                        in Masonic Hall, was to him the tamest, the dullest of organizations, and
                        the fact that his brother-in-law Waterman, who waltzed like a tipsy barrel,
                        enjoyed those harmless entertainments had done much to embitter
                        Hastings's life. Hastings imagined himself in love frequently; the
                        Dramatic Club afforded opportunities for the intense flirtations in which
                        his nature delighted. The parents of several young women who had taken part
                        in his amateur theatricals had been concerned for their daughters'
                        safety. And now Phil interested himthis new Phil in city clothes. The antics
                        of Phil, the tomboy of  Main Street, had
                        frequently aroused his indignation; Phil, a d$eAbutante in an evening gown
                        that he pronounced a creation of the gods, was worthy of serious attention.
                        She was, he averred, Hermione, Rosalind, Portia, Beatrice, combined in one
                        perfect flower of womanhood.
                    "You are adorable, Phil," he sighed, when the music ceased,
                        leaving them at the end of the living-room. "A star danced and you
                        were born."
                    "That is very sweet, Lawrince," said Phil; "but
                        here comes my next partner. You must n't stand in the way of the
                        young men."
                    The very lightest laughing emphasis on "young" made a stab
                        of this. He posed in a window and watched her, with his gloomiest
                        Hamlet-like air, until his wife, noting this familiar symptom, interrupted
                        his meditations and commissioned him to convoy a lady with an ear-trumpet to
                        the dining-room.
                    The party was going merrily; there was no doubt of its complete success. Some
                        of the older folk remarked upon the fact that Phil had danced with Charles
                        Holton; and he danced well. There was a grace in the Holtons, and Charles
                        was endowed with the family friendliness. He made a point of speaking to
                        every one and of dancing with the wall-flowers. It was noted presently that
                        he saw Mrs. King to her carriage, and was otherwise regardful of the old
                        folks.
                    Phil had wondered whether Fred Holton would come. She had hoped he would when
                        she asked him at her uncle's farm, and the formal invitation had
                        been dispatched to R.F.D. 7 as promised.
                    It was ten o'clock when Fred appeared. Phil saw him over her
                        partner's shoulder talking to Amzi in the hall door, and as she
                        swept by him in the dance she caught his eye. Fred had come late out of
                        sheer timidity, but he had arrived at a moment when the gayety was at its
                        height.
                    His diffidence had been marked even in his college days, and he was unused to
                        gatherings of this kind. The proximity of so many gay, laughing people was a
                        real distress to him.  And if the other
                        members of his family were able to overlook Jack Holton's great
                        sin, Fred was acutely conscious of it now that Phil had dawned on his
                        horizon. He had no sooner entered the house than he regretted his temerity
                        in coming; and he had come merely to see Philthat was the whole of it. Nor
                        did the thought of this now contribute to his comfort. His glimpses of her
                        as she danced up and down the room with three partners in turnone of them
                        his brotherset his pulses throbbing. Phil in her simple white gownthis
                        glowing, joyous woman was no longer of his world. For the first time in his
                        life his heart was shot through with jealousy. He had always felt
                        Charles's superiority, but with a younger brother's loyal
                        admiration he had not resented it. He resented it now. Fred had resurrected
                        a cutaway coat for this adventure, and he was acutely aware that there were
                        more dress-coats in evidence than he had imagined were available in
                        Montgomery. Amzi, who had greeted him kindly, introduced him to a visiting
                        girl whose name he did not catch, and he was doing his best to present an
                        appearance of ease in talking to her. It had been a long time since he had
                        danced, and he did not know the new steps. The girl asked him why he did not
                        invite her to dance, and this added to his discomfiture. There is no greater
                        unhappiness than that of the non-dancing young man at a dancing-party. He is
                        drawn to such functions by a kind of fascination; he does not understand why
                        other young men with no better brains than his are able to encircle the
                        waists of the most beautiful girls and guide them through difficult
                        evolutions. He vows that he will immediately submit himself to instruction
                        and lift himself from the pits of torment.
                    The visiting girl was carried off, evidently to her relief and delight, by a
                        strange young man and Fred was left stranded in an alcove. He had never felt
                        so lonesome in his life. Phil vanished and now that he no longer enjoyed
                        even his earlier swift glimpses of her, his dejection increased. He was
                        meditating an escape when, as his eyes sought her, she stood suddenly
                        breathless beside him. A divinity had no right thus  to appear unheralded before mortal eyes. Fred blushed
                        furiously and put out his hand awkwardly. Phil's latest partner
                        begged for another dance; there was to be an extra, he pleaded; but she
                        dismissed him with a wave of her fan. There had been high-school dances
                        where Phil had learned to steel her heart against the importunate.
                    "Why did n't you come and speak to me?" demanded
                        Phil when they were alone.
                    "I was just waiting for a chance. I did n't want to bother
                        you."
                    "Well, you'll have to do better than this! You're
                        the only person in the house who has n't spoken to me! But it was
                        nice of you to come: it must be a trouble to come to town at night when you
                        live so far." She sat down in the windowseat and bade him do
                        likewise. "You did see Uncle Amy, did n't you? I saw you
                        talking to him; but you ought to have come earlier while there was a
                        receiving-line ready for you. Now you'll have to look around for
                        everybody; you have to speak to my three aunts and all my uncles and my
                        father."
                    "I'll be glad to," declared Fred; and then
                        realizing the absurdity of his fervor in consenting to speak to the aunts
                        and uncles he laughed.
                    "You're scared," said Phil. "And if you
                        won't tell anybody I'm a little bit scared myself, just
                        because everybody tells me how grown-up I am."
                    The music struck up and a young cavaliera college senior, who had worshiped
                        Phil since his freshman year came to say that it was his dance. She told him
                        that she was tired and would have to be excused. He wished to debate the
                        question, but she closed the incident promptly and effectively.
                    "I'm busy talking to Mr. Holton; and I can see you any
                        time, Walter."
                    Walter departed crestfallen; she treated him as though he were still a
                        freshman. He was wearing his first dress-coat and the tallest collar he
                        could buy, and it was humiliating to be called Walter and sent away by a
                        girl who preferred to talk  to a
                        rustic-looking person in a cutaway coat and a turnover collar with a
                        four-in-hand tie.
                    Phil carried Fred off for a tour of the rooms, pausing to introduce him to
                        her father and to the three aunts, to whom she said how kind it was of Fred
                        to come; that he was the only person she had personally asked to the party.
                        And it was just like Phil, for years the loyal protector of all the discards
                        among the cats and dogs in town, to choose a clodhopper for special
                        attention. Kirkwood, who had forgotten Fred's existence, greeted
                        him in his pleasant but rather absent way.
                    The torrid Wabash Valley summers of many years had not greatly modified the
                        chill in Kirkwood's New England blood, and the isolation in which
                        he had lived so long had deepened his reserve. The scholarly stamp had not
                        been effaced by his abandonment of the academic life, and many of his
                        fellow-townsmen still addressed him as Professor Kirkwood. His joy to-night
                        lay in Phil's happiness; his heart warmed to the terms of praise in
                        which every one spoke of her. It touched his humor that his daughter was in
                        some degree a public character. Her escapades in childhood and youth had
                        endeared her to the community. In her battles with the aunts public sympathy
                        had been pretty generally with Phil. "Otherwise Phyllis?"
                        Many a smile had been occasioned by that question. Tom Kirkwood knew all
                        this and was happy and grateful. He had not attended a large gathering of
                        his fellow-townfolk since his wife left him, so that his daughter's
                        coming-out was an event of double significance for him.
                    The aunts were somewhat critical of the arrangements for refreshing the
                        guests. Amzi, refusing to heed their suggestions that the catering be
                        entrusted to an Indianapolis firm, had arranged everything himself. The
                        cakes were according to the best recipes known at 98 Buckeye Lane, and Rose
                        and Nan were there, assisting, by Amzi's special command. During
                        the evening he consulted first one and then the other; and when his sisters
                        asked icily for instructions, he told them  to
                        look handsome and keep cheerful. This was unbrotherly, of course, but Amzi
                        was supremely happy.
                    The older people had been served in the dining-room and many of them had
                        already gone or were now taking leave, and the waiters were distributing
                        little tables for the young people.
                    "Let me see, you were to have refreshments with me, Miss Kirkwood; I
                        have a table in the drawing-room alcove all ready," said Charles
                        Holton to Phil as she still stood talking to Fred in the hall. Fred had been
                        wondering just what his own responsibilities were in the matter. Charles had
                        greeted him affably; but Fred's diffidence deepened in his
                        brother's presence: Charles was a master of the social arts,
                        whereas Fred had only instinctive good-breeding to guide him. Fred was about
                        to move away, but Phil detained him.
                    "Is n't it curious that you two brothers should have the
                        same idea," said Phil artlessly. "It's really
                        remarkable! But I think"and she turned gravely to Fred"I
                        think, as long as you came too late for a dance with me, I shall eat my
                        piece of pie with youand I think right up there on the stairs would be an
                        excellent place to sit!"
                    Fred, radiant at the great kindness of this, went off to bring the salad for
                        which she declared she was perishing. Charles looked at her with an amused
                        smile on his face.
                    "You're a brick! It's mighty fine of you to be so
                        nice to Fred. Dear old Fred!"
                    Phil frowned.
                    "Why do you speak of your brother in that way?"
                    "How did I speak of him?"
                    "Oh, as if he were somebody to be sorry for!"
                    "Oh, you misunderstood me! I was merely pleased that you were being
                        nice to him. Fred would never have thought of asking you to sit on the
                        stairs with himI knew that; it was just like you to save him from
                        embarrassment."
                    "Oh!"
                    He was piqued by the connotations suggested by Phil's
                        "Oh!" Phil was not only stunningly pretty, but she had
                        wits.  It was his way to impress girls he met,
                        and there was no time for dallying now; Fred would return in a moment and
                        take Phil away from him. He intended to see a great deal of her hereafter,
                        and he believed that in the opening skirmishes of a flirtation a bold shot
                        counts double. Phil waved her hand in the direction of the table where the
                        Bartletts, her father, and Amzi were seating themselves, and when she looked
                        round at Holton, she found his eyes bent upon her with a fair imitation of
                        wistfulness and longing which in previous encounters of this sort he had
                        found effective.
                    "I don't believe you realize how beautiful you are.
                        I've been over the world a good deal and there's no one
                        anywhere who touches you. There are lots of nice and pretty girls, of
                        course, but you are different; you are a beautiful woman! To see you like
                        this is to know for the first time what beauty is. And I knowI appreciate
                        the beautiful soul there is in youthat shines out of your eyes!"
                        His voice was low, and a little tremulous. "I want the chance to
                        fight for you! From that first moment I saw you in your father's
                        office I have thought of nothing but you. That's why I came why I
                        gave up business of real importance to come. And I shall come again and
                        again, until you tell me I may come no longer."
                    His voice seemed to break with the stress of deep feeling. Phil listened,
                        first in surprise that yielded perhaps to fear, and then her head bent and
                        she looked down at her fan which she slowly opened and shut. She did not
                        lift her eyes until she was sure he had finished.
                    "By the way," she remarked, with studied carelessness, as
                        she continued to play with her fan, "I wish I could quote things
                        offhand like that. It must be fine to have such a memory! Let me see, what
                        is that from"The Prisoner of Zenda" or "How Lulu
                        Came to Logansport"? Oh!" (with sudden animation as Fred
                        came bearing two plates) "there's my young life-saver
                        now!" Then to Charles again: "Well, I shall certainly look
                        up that quotation. It was ever so nice of you to remind me of
                        it!"
                    
                    Holton struck his gloved hands together smartly in his irritation and turned
                        away. Phil was undoubtedly different; but she was not through yet. She
                        called him back, one foot on the stair, and said in a confidential tone,
                        "That nice little Orbison girl,the blonde one, I mean,
                        who's visiting here from Elwood,I wish you'd take good
                        care of her; I'm afraid she is n't having a wildly
                        exciting time."
                    "This is what I call being real comfortable and cozy," she
                        remarked to Fred as they disposed themselves on one of the lower steps.
                    Below and near at hand were most of the members of her family. She saw from
                        the countenances of the three aunts that they were displeased with her, but
                        the consciousness of this did not spoil life for her. She humanly enjoyed
                        their discomfiture, knowing that it was based upon the dinginess of
                        Fred's clothes and prospects. Their new broad tolerance of the
                        Holtons did not cover the tragic implications of Fred's raiment.
                        They meant to protect Phil in every way, and yet there was ground for
                        despair when she chose the most undesirable young man in the county to sit
                        with in the intimacy of the refreshment hour at her own coming-out. Mrs.
                        Fosdick leaned back from her table to ask Amzi in an angry whisper what he
                        meant by allowing Phil to invite Fred Holton to her party.
                    "What's that? Allow her! I did n't allow her!
                        Nobody allows Phil! Thunder!" And then, after he had picked up his
                        fallen napkin, he turned to add: "There's nothing the
                        matter with Fred that I know of!"
                    The comparative quiet that now reigned was much more to Fred's
                        liking than the gayety of the dance. Phil treated their companionship as a
                        matter of course and his timidity and restraint vanished. Nothing in his
                        experience had ever been so agreeable and stimulating as this. That Phil, of
                        all humankind, should have made this possible was to him inexplicable. It
                        could not be that when this was over, he should be hurled back to Stop
                        7.
                    Phil, who had disposed of Charle's confession of adoration  to her own satisfaction, now seemed bent upon
                        winning some praise from the halting tongue of Charles's brother.
                        To make conversation she directed attention to her new trinket, holding out
                        the chain for Fred to admire the pearls. In doing this he saw the pulse
                        throbbing in her slim throat, and this in itself was disturbing. Her
                        nearness there on the stairway affected him even more than on the orchard
                        slope where he had experienced similar agitations. When she laughed he
                        noticed an irregularity in one of her white teeth; and there was a tiny mole
                        on her neck, just below her left ear. He did not know why he saw these
                        things, or why seeing them increased his awe. It seemed wonderful that she
                        could so easily slip her hands out of her gloves without drawing the long
                        gauntlets from her arms. Farther and farther receded the Phil of the kitchen
                        apron with whom he had bargained for the sale of the saddest apples that had
                        ever been brought to Montgomery by a self-respecting farmer! When her father
                        came to the stair-rail to ask if she felt a draft from the upper windows,
                        Fred was shaken with fear; the thought that the airs of heaven might visit
                        affliction upon this brown-haired and brown-eyed marvel was at once a grief
                        to him. He felt the world rock at the bare thought of any harm ever coming
                        to her.
                    "As if," said Phil, when her father had been reassured,
                        "the likes of me could take cold. What do you do all day on a farm
                        in winter weather?"
                    "Let me see; I chopped wood, this morning; and I'd bought
                        some corn of Perrythat is, of your uncleand went over with the wagon to get
                        it; and this afternoon I brought the wood I had chopped to the woodshed; and
                        then I went out to look at my wheatfield, and almost bought a cow of another
                        neighborbut did n't quite make a bargain. And then I began to get
                        ready to come to your party."
                    "You must have worked awfully hard to get ready," said
                        Phil, "for you were late getting here."
                    "Well, I loafed around outside for an hour or so before I came
                        in," and he smiled ruefully. "I'm not used to
                        parties."
                    
                    "You seem to get on pretty well," said Phil
                        reassuringly.
                    One of the waiters had brought them ice-cream and cake, and after she had
                        tasted the cake Phil caught Rose Bartlett's eye and expressed
                        ecstasy and gratitude by a lifting of the head, a closing of the eyes, a
                        swift folding of the hands.
                    "How are you going to amuse yourself out there by yourself all
                        winter?" she remarked to Fred; "I should n't
                        think there would be much to do!"
                    "Oh, there won't be any trouble about that! I've
                        got plenty to do and then I want to do some studying, too. I'm
                        going up to the University in January to hear lectures farming and
                        stock-raising and things like that. Perry has put me up to it. And then in
                        between times I want to get acquainted with the neighbors; they're
                        all mighty nice people and kind and friendly. That sounds pretty stupid,
                        does n't it?"
                    "Well, it sounds wholesome if not wildly exciting. I've
                        lost my job. They took my kitchen away from me just as I was getting
                        started; and I have n't anything much to do except being
                        sociable."
                    "Of course, you've come out now, and you'll be
                        going to receptions and dances all the time."
                    "I can't exactly cry O joy, O joy at the thought of it.
                        There must have been gypsies in my family somewhere. You'll think
                        I'm crazy, but I'd like to go out right now and run a
                        mile. But there will be skating afterwhile; and snowstorms to go walking in.
                        I like walking in snowstorms, the blustering kind where you can't
                        see and go plunking into fences."
                    Fred agreed to this; he readily visualized Phil tramping
                        'cross-country in snowstorms. "It's an awful
                        thing," Phil resumed, "to have to be respectable. Aunt
                        Kate wants to go South this winter and take me with her. But that would mean
                        being shut up in a hotel. If daddy did n't have to work,
                        I'd make him take me to California where we could get a wagon and
                        just keep camping. Camping out is the most fun there is in this world. There's a nice wooziness in  waking up at night and hearing an owl right
                        over your head; and there are the weather changes, when you go to sleep with
                        the stars shining and wake up and hear the rain slapping the tent. And when
                        you've gone for a long tramp and come back tired and wet and
                        hungry, and sit and talk about things awhile and then tumble into bed and
                        get up in the morning to do it all over again! Does that sound perfectly
                        wild? If it does, then I'm crazy, for that's the kind of
                        thing I likenot to talk about it at parties in my best clothes, but to go
                        out and do it and keep on doing it forever and ever."
                    She put the last crumb of the Bartlett cake into her mouth meditatively.
                    "I like the outdoors, too," said Fred, for whom this
                        statement of her likings momentarily humanized his goddess and brought her
                        within the range of his understanding. "The earth is a good old
                        earth. There are no jars in the way she does her business. There's
                        something that makes me feel sort o' funny inside when I go out now
                        and see that little wheat-patch of mine, and know that the snow is going to
                        cover it, and that with any kind of good luck it's going to live
                        right through the cold and come to harvest next summer. And it gives me a
                        queer feeling, and always did, the way it all goes onand has always gone on
                        since the beginning of the world. When I was a little boy here in Montgomery
                        and went to Center Church Sunday-School, the most interesting things in the
                        Bible were about those Old Testament people, raising cattle and tending
                        flocks and farming just like the people right here at home. I suppose
                        it's a feeling like that I always had that makes me want to be a
                        farmer and live close to the groundthat and wanting to earn a
                        living," he concluded, smiling. He was astonished at his own
                        speech, which had expressed ideas that had never crystallized in his mind
                        before.
                    "That," said Phil, "is what poetry isfeeling like
                        that."
                    "I suppose it is," Fred assented.
                    The waiters were relieving the guests of their burdens,  and carrying out the tables, and there was a stir through the
                        house as the musicians took their places. Phil rose and nodded to a young
                        gentleman who sought her for the next dance.
                    "I've got to go," said Fred.
                        "I'll just about catch my last car. It's been
                        fine to be here. And I've enjoyed talking to you. It was mighty
                        kind of you to sit up here with me. I shall always remember
                        it."
                    Phil was drawing on her gloves, looking down upon the hall through which the
                        guests from the other rooms were now passing.
                    At this moment the outer hall door opened cautiously and a man stepped
                        inside, closed it noisily, and placed his back against it with an air of
                        defiance. He stood blinking in the strong light, moving his head from side
                        to side as though in the effort to summon speech. The waiter who had been
                        stationed at the door was helping to clear away the tables, but he hurried
                        forward and began directing this latest guest where to leave his wraps. The
                        stranger shook his head protestingly. It was quite evident that he was
                        intoxicated. He wore a long overcoat spattered with mud, and there was a
                        dent in the derby hat he removed with elaborate care and then swung at
                        arm's length. The doorways filled. Something not down in the
                        programme was occurring. A sudden hush fell upon the house; whispered
                        inquiries as to the identity of the stranger, who stood drunkenly turning
                        his gaze from left to right, passed guardedly from lip to lip. Amzi,
                        Kirkwood, and the Bartletts remained near where they had risen from their
                        table, sharing the general consternation. Amzi was the first to recover; he
                        took a step toward the door, but paused as the man began to speak slowly and
                        drunkenly. He seemed annoyed by his inability to control his tongue and his
                        voice rose raspingly.
                    ""M looking for my brufmy brufmy brother. Tole me
                        'tis h-h'tis house he was 't Amzi's to
                        party. Holtons and MungummerMontgomerys all good fr'ens now.
                        Bes" ole fam'lies in town. "Pologize for coming
                        s" late; no  time change my clothes;
                        disgracefulpuf-puf-perfectly disgraceful, that's whasmasser. Want
                        t' see Will. Anybody here seen Will? Don' tell me
                        Will's gone home s' early; mos'
                        unfashion'ble; mos' disgracefully
                        unfashion'ble!"
                    Jack Holton had come back, and this was the manner of his coming. To most of
                        those who saw him that night tipsily planted against the door of the old
                        Montgomery house, he was an entire stranger, so long had been his exile; but
                        to Amzi, to Tom Kirkwood, to Rose and Nan Bartlett there came at the instant
                        of identification a thronging weight of memories. Some one had called
                        William Holtonhe was discussing local business prospects with Paul
                        Fosdickand the crowd about the drawing-room door made way for him. His
                        nephew Charles was at his elbow.
                    "Bring my coat and hat to the back door, Charlie, and see that your
                        Aunt Nellie gets home," he said; and people spoke admiringly
                        afterward of the composure with which he met the situation.
                    Amzi was advancing toward the uninvited guest and William turned to him.
                    "This is unpardonable, Mr. Montgomery, but I want you to know that I
                        could n't have foreseen it. I am very sorry.
                        Good-night!"
                    Preceded by Amzi, William led his brother, not without difficulty, through
                        the hall to the dining-room and into the kitchen, where Charles joined him
                        in a moment by way of the back stairs.
                    "It's Uncle Jack, is it?" Charles asked, looking
                        at the tall figure with a curiosity that was unfeigned.
                    "M' dear boy, I s'pose 's possible
                        I'm your lonlon long los' uncle; but I have n't
                        zonnerhave n't zonner your acquaintance. Want to see Will. Got
                        prodigal on zands, Will has. Seems t'ave come back mos'
                        "nomos" 'nopportune 'casion. All right,
                        ole man: jus' give me y' arm and I get "long
                        mos" com-for-ble, mos' comfort-a-ble," he ended
                        with a leer of triumph at having achieved the vowel.
                    Charles helped him down the steps to the walk and then  returned to the house. In his unfamiliarity with its
                        arrangements, he opened by mistake the door that led to a little den where
                        Amzi liked to read and smoke. There quite alone stood Tom Kirkwood, his
                        hands in his pockets, staring into the coal-fire of the grate. Charles
                        muttered an apology and hastily closed the door.
                    Through the house rang the strains of a waltz, and the dance went on.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XI
                    BROTHERS
                    WILLIAM HOLTON spoke the truth to Amzi
                        when he said that he had had no warning of his brother's return.
                        William, with all his apparent prosperity, was not without his troubles, and
                        he took it unkindly that this brother, who for sixteen years had kept out of
                        the way, should have chosen so unfortunate a moment for reintroducing
                        himself to his native town. He had not set eyes on Jack since his flight
                        with Lois Kirkwood, though Samuel had visited the Western coast several
                        times on business errands and had kept in touch with him. William had been
                        glad enough to forget Jack's existence, particularly as the reports
                        that had reached himeven those brought back by the sanguine Samuelhad been
                        far from reassuring as to Jack's status in Seattle.
                    Jack's return meant a recrudescence of wounds which time had
                        seemingly healed, with resulting discomforts that might have far-reaching
                        consequences. Mrs. William had a pride of her own, and it was unjust to her
                        for a man who had so shocked the moral sensibilities of the town to thrust
                        himself back upon his family, especially when he had chosen to present
                        himself first at the domicile of the head of a house against which he had so
                        grossly sinned.
                    William took Jack home and put him to bed; and when Charles followed a little
                        later with Mrs. Holton, the prodigal slept the sleep of weary intoxication
                        in her guest chamber.
                    The next day the town buzzed, and the buzzing was loud enough to make itself
                        heard at the desk of the president of the First National Bank. William had
                        left word at home that when Jack came to himself, he was to be dispatched to
                        the bank forthwith. He meant to deal with this unwelcome  pilgrim upon a business basis strictly,
                        without any softening domestic influences. The honor of the Holtons was
                        touched nearly and Jack must be got rid of. Mrs. Holton telephoned at eleven
                        o'clock that Jack was on his way downtown, and William was prepared
                        for the interview when his brother strolled in with something of his old
                        jauntiness.
                    The door of the directors' room closed upon them. The word passed
                        along Main Street that Jack and William were closeted in the bank. Phil,
                        walking downtown on an errand, with the happiness of her party still in her
                        eyes, was not without her sense of the situation. At the breakfast-table her
                        father, deeply preoccupied, had brought himself with an effort to review the
                        happier events of the party. Knowing what was in his mind Phil mentioned the
                        untoward misfortune that had cast Jack Holton of all men upon the threshold
                        of her uncle's house.
                    "It really did n't make any difference, daddy,that
                        man's coming. Everybody tried to forget it. And some of the young
                        people did n't know him at all."
                    "No; it did n't matter, Phil. Your Uncle Amzi is a fine
                        gentleman: I never fully appreciated his goodness and generosity as much as
                        I did last night."
                    Phil did not know that Amzi had sought Kirkwood in the den where the lawyer
                        had gone to take counsel with himself, and had blown himself purple in the
                        face in his kind efforts to make light of the incident. The two men had
                        never been drawn closer together in their lives than in that meeting.
                    "It was n't Uncle Amy's fault that the William
                        Holtons were asked to the party; I think it was Aunt Kate who started that.
                        And when I heard of it, it was all over and the invitations had been
                        sent," Phil said.
                    Kirkwood repeated his assurance that it made no difference in any way. And
                        Phil remembered for a long time a certain light in his gentle, candid eyes
                        as he said:
                    "We get over most of our troubles in this world, Phil; and I want
                        you to know that that particular thing does n't hurt me any more.
                        Only it was a shock; the man had aged so  and
                        his condition and the suddenness of it But it's all over and it did
                        n't spoil the party; that's the main thing."
                    Phil was immensely relieved, for she knew that her father told the truth.
                    Jack Holton greeted a number of old friends on his way to the bank, but the
                        president emeritus of the college cut him. The cold stare he received from
                        this old man, who had been president of Madison College for forty years,
                        expressed a contempt that hurt. Mrs. King, in whose yard he had played as a
                        boy, looked over his head, though he was confident she knew him. His
                        nostrils caught no scent of roast veal in the familiar streets. At his
                        brother's house his sister-in-law, whom he had never seen, had not
                        appeared when he went down for his breakfast.
                    He followed his brother into the directors' room in a defiant humor.
                        They took account of each other with a frank curiosity begotten of their
                        long separation.
                    "You have n't changed much, Will. You've grown a
                        little stouter than father did, but dear old Sam never lost his shape, and
                        you're like him."
                    There was little resemblance between the two men. William's face,
                        clean-shaven save for a mustache, showed few lines, though his hair had
                        whitened at the temples. Jack's hair and mustache were well
                        sprinkled with gray, and his crown was bald. He fingered a paper-weight on
                        the table nervously. A history of dissipation was written legibly in his
                        eyes and he had a disconcerting way of jerking his head.
                    "Damn it all! I guess you're not tickled to death to see
                        me. And I need hardly say that if I had n't been drunk, I would
                        n't have turned up at old Amzi's on the night of that
                        kid's coming-out party. Drunk when I struck town had n't
                        been feeling well, and fell in with some old friends at Indianapolis and
                        filled up. Hope you'll overlook my little indiscretions. Reckon the
                        town would have found out I was here soon enough and there's
                        nothing like coming right out in  the open.
                        When they told me at your house you were at Amzi's, I could
                        n't believe it and I was just drunk enough to want to
                        investigate."
                    William muttered something that Jack preferred to ignore.
                    "Well, I was n't so drunk I did n't take in
                        Kirkwood. Old Tom has held his own pretty well; but he's the type
                        Time don't batter much. I'd thought a good deal about what
                        might happen if we ever methad rather figured on a little pistol work; but
                        Lord! it's funny how damned soon we get over these things. Trifles,
                        Will, triflesbubbles of human experience that vanish in thin air. Damn it
                        all! life's a queer business. We put our faith in women and
                        they're a bad investment, damned uncertain and devilish hard to
                        please, and shake you when the night falleth and you need a prop to lean on.
                        By the way, your own consort ducked me this morning; I had to have breakfast
                        alone, with only one of Africa's haughty daughters to break my
                        eggs. I hope madam your wife is well. By the way, has she given any hostages
                        to fortune? Thought I had n't heard of it. You've treated
                        me in a hell of a little brotherly fashion, Will. If it had n't
                        been for Sam, who was a true sport if I know one, I should n't have
                        known anything about you, dead or alive."
                    William had listened with an almost imperceptible frown while he minutely
                        studied his brother. The items he collected were not calculated to inspire
                        confidence or quicken fraternal feeling. Jack, whom he remembered as
                        fastidious in old times, was sadly crumpled. The cuffs of his colored shirt
                        were frayed; there were spots on his tie, and his clothes looked as though
                        they had been slept in. The lining of the ulster he had thrown across a
                        chair had been patched, and threads hung where his legs had rubbed it. The
                        impressions reflected in William's eyes were increasingly
                        disagreeable ones, as he diagnosed moral, physical, and financial
                        decrepitude. It was nothing short of impudence on Jack's part to
                        intrude himself upon the town and upon his family. It was  with a slight sneer that William replied to
                        his brother's long speech by ejaculating:
                    "Well, I like your nerve! You come back drunk just when the
                        community had begun to forget you, and wander into the last house in the
                        world where you ought to show yourself. Your being drunk does n't
                        excuse you. Why did n't you tell me you were coming?"
                    Jack smiled ironically.
                    "Suppose you climb off your high horse for a little bit. If I have
                        to get a permit from my only brother to come back to the town where I was
                        born, things have come to a nice pass. Better cut all that
                        out."
                    "You're certainly a past-master at making a mess of
                        things," William continued. "Your coming back that way
                        fits neatly into your departure. You need n't think people have
                        forgotten that you ran off with another man's wife. And your coming
                        back right now, just when the Montgomerys had buried the hatchet, was
                        calculated with the Devil's own mind."
                    "So that's the tune, is it?" said Jack, stretching
                        his arms upon the table and clasping his fingers to subdue their nervous
                        twitchings.
                    "That's just the tune! This town is n't big enough
                        to hold you and the rest of us. You've cost me a lot of money first
                        and last. You made it necessary for us to pull away from Amzi and start all
                        over again, and there was a prejudice against me from the start that
                        I"ve just about lived down."
                    Jack grinned unpleasantly.
                    "Oh, the bank has n't been terribly prosperous,
                        then!"
                    William blinked at the thrust. He had given the conversation an unfortunate
                        turn, and he sought uncomfortably for another line of attack. Jack
                        unwittingly opened the way for him.
                    "You were the good boy of the family and used to be a pillar in the
                        church. I have a distinct though melancholy impression that when I took
                        myself hence you were passing the basket in Center Church every Sunday
                        morning. I don't  recall that I ever
                            saw you do it, but it was a matter of common knowledge
                        in this town, Will, that you did that very thing. And being a Christian,
                        just how do you square your effusive brotherly welcome with the gospel? The
                        only reason God makes sinners is to give 'em a chance to repent.
                        Without repentance what do you suppose would become of your churches
                        anyhow?"
                    "I don't see any repentance in you; and I want to know
                        right now what you've done with that woman?"
                    Jack blinked, then smiled and gave a laugh expressive of disdain and
                        contempt.
                    "If you please, which woman?"
                    William's frown deepened. The one woman was certainly enough, and
                        his rage was increased by the leer that accompanied the question.
                    "Oh, I dare say there have been enough of them! I mean the one you
                        took away from here; I mean Lois Kirkwood."
                    "Oh, Lois!" He spoke as though surprised that she should be
                        chosen for particular attention, and his lip curled scornfully.
                        "When a man goes wrong, Will, he pays for it. Take it from me that
                        that's one gospel truth that I've proved to my entire
                        satisfaction. It's queer, Will, how soon a bonfire burns outthe
                        bigger the fire the quicker it goes. I went plum crazy about that girl.
                        She'd married the one particular man on earth who was least likely
                        to make her happy. He bored her. And I guess her baby bored her, too,she was
                        n't a domestic animal,no pussy cat to sit by the fire and play with
                        the baby and have hubby's slippers toasting when he came home to
                        supper. And I had time to play with her; I was n't so intellectual
                        as Tom, but my nature was a damned sight more sympathetic. It looked as
                        though we had been made for each other, and I was fooled into thinking so.
                        And I was bored myselfthis silly little town, with nothing to hold anybody.
                        Lois and I were made for a bigger world at least we thought so: and by Jove,
                        it was funny how we fooled each otherit was altogether too damned
                        funny!"
                    "I'm glad you take a humorous view of it," replied
                        William  coldly. "Not satisfied with
                        disgracing the family, you come back to rub it in. Where did you leave the
                        woman? I suppose you've chucked herthe usual way."
                    Jack threw back his head and laughed.
                    "Well, I like that! You don't know what I had to put up
                        with! She made me suffer, I can tell you! I don't believe
                        she'd deny herself that she made it damned uncomfortable for me.
                        She liked to spend money, for one thing, and I could n't make it
                        fast enough; and she wanted to mingle with the rich and gay, and our story
                        had followed us, and it's funny, Will, what a lot of old-fashioned,
                        stupid, Thursday-night-prayer-meeting and the-pastor-in-to-tea morality
                        there is left in this fool world! It cut Lois up a good deal, being snubbed
                        by people she wanted to stand well with. It gave me a jolt to find that I
                        was n't all sufficient for her after all; which hurt some when
                        we'd decided we could be happy alone together in the woods for the
                        rest of our days. It's a long story, and I'm not going to
                        talk about it. With the money I took away from here I began monkeying with
                        real estate; it did n't seem that anybody out there could lose just
                        then: but I was a bad guesser. In five years I had played in all my chips,
                        and had to sneak around office buildings trying to sell life insurance,
                        which was n't dignified nor becoming in a member of the haughty
                        house of Holton."
                    "Sam told me a different story. Why don't you tell the
                        truth if you talk about it at all? You gambled and lost your
                        moneythat's what happened; and real estate speculation was only a
                        side line. But Lois had money; I suppose you played that away, too. Sam
                        never seemed quite clear about your relations with her."
                    "I guess he did n't! There's a queer woman, Will.
                        The inscrutable ways of Providence were not in it with hers. She hated me,
                        but she would n't let go of me; seemed to be her idea that shaking
                        one man was enough and she would n't let me make her a widow a
                        second time. By George, I could n't shake herI had to live off
                        her!"
                    William shrugged his shoulders and scowled. It was incredible  that this could be his own brother who spoke
                        thus of the gravest relationships of life. And it was with a steady sinking
                        of spirit that it was beaten in upon him that this man had come back to
                        plant himself at his door. He was busy calculating the effect upon himself,
                        his family, and his business of the prodigal's return. He was
                        shocked, disgusted, alarmed.
                    His wife had told him in the long vigil that followed her return from Amzi
                        Montgomery's house, when she learned that her brother-in-law was
                        sleeping off his spree in her guest-room, that Jack had to go. She was proud
                        and arrogant, and she had no idea of relinquishing her social preminence not
                        too easily wonin the town to which William Holton had brought her to live
                        out her life. One or two of the old families had never received her with any
                        cordiality, clearly by reason of the old scandal. And where there are only
                        seventeen thousand people in a town the indifference of two or three, when
                        they happen to include a woman like Mrs. King, was not to be ignored or
                        borne without rancor. William's indignation was intensified as he
                        reviewed Jack's disclosures from the angle his wife had drawn for
                        him in the midnight conference. His curiosity was sharpened, however, as to
                        the subsequent relationship of Jack and Lois Kirkwood. Seattle is a long way
                        from Montgomery and lines of communication few and slight. Samuel, returning
                        from his visits to the coast, had usually been to full of his own schemes to
                        furnish any satisfactory details of Jack and his wife. William dropped his
                        plumb-line in a new spot where he fancied the water would prove shallow.
                    "You lived off her, did n't you, until you had lived up all
                        she had? The gospel did n't neglect her; she got her share of the
                        punishment."
                    "Look here, Will, you must n't make me laugh like that! You
                        know I used to think I understood human nature, but I never started with
                        that woman. I did live at her expense, I had to,and she stood for it until I
                        got to hanging round the saloons too much. She used to pay my dues in the
                             club, damned if she did n't,
                        until I got fired for too much poker in the chamber over the gate. I must
                        say she was a good sport: as a fair-minded man, I've got to admit
                        that. And she swung the lash over menever laid it on, but made it
                        sizzwhistletill I"d duck and sniffle; and she did exactly what she
                        pleased without caring a damn whether I liked it or not! By George, I knew
                        she was a wonder when I took her off Kirkwood's hands, but she was
                        n't wonderful in just the way I thought she'd be. That was
                        where the joke came in. And she made people like her; she could do that; and
                        she got on, so that wherever she could go without me she was welcome. That
                        was after people got sorry for her because she was hooked up to me; but most
                        of 'em, I guess, liked her on her own account. A queer development,
                        Will. For the past five years I've just been a piece of furniture,
                        to be dusted and moved occasionally like an old rocking-chair that gets into
                        a house, nobody knows exactly how, and is shoved around, trying corners
                        where it won't be noticed much, until it winds up in the garret.
                        But after all the corners had been tried,she did n't have any
                        garret; we lived mostly in hotels and flats,I was gradually worked out on
                        the second-hand man's wagon, and here I am."
                    "She kept her money, then?" asked William with assumed
                        indifference.
                    "Will," said Jack with a mockingly confidential air,
                        leaning forward on the table, "after the first two or three years I
                        never knew whether she had a cent or not, that's the straight of
                        it. Considering that she had thrown away her reputation like an old shoe
                        just for me, and that we lived along under the same roof, that was the most
                        astonishing thing of all. She began by handing me out a hundred now and then
                        when I was broke; then it dropped to ten, and then it got down to a dollar a
                        week,humiliating, Will, considering that I had given up my interest in the
                        ancient and honorable firm of Montgomery & Holton, Bankers, just for
                        her! But when she shook me for good, I'm damned if she did
                        n't give me a clean thousand just as a consolation
                        prize."
                    
                    William was more interested in this phase of the relationship than in
                        anything that had gone before. He was aware of the local belief that Jack
                        had thrown away his wife's share of her father's estate in
                        his real estate speculations in Seattle and that Amzi supported her
                        dutifully by a regular allowance; in fact, the three sisters had encouraged
                        this impression by characteristic insinuations.
                    "What's become of her? Where is she now?"
                    "That's where you've got me stung: how do I know
                        where she is! After she slipped me the thousand and bade me a long and
                        chilling farewell, I used to keep track of her in one way or another. She
                        had a restless streak in her,that's why she could n't
                        stand Tom and the rest of it,and when it was all peach blossoms and spring
                        with us she liked to take spurts over the world. We used to run down to San
                        Francisco for little sprees, and then when that played out she shifted to
                        New York. But I've lost her trailI don't any more know
                        where she is than if I'd never laid eyes on her. She went abroad a
                        couple of times and she may be over there now. Say, if Amzi's
                        putting up for her you will lose your main competitor one of these days!
                        She'd bust the biggest bank in Wall Street, that woman!
                        She's a luxurious little devil, and a wonder for looks. Even the
                        harsh trial of living with me did n't wear her to a frazzle the way
                        you might suppose it would. I guess if I had n't poisoned the wells
                        for her, she could have shaken me for most any man she liked. By George,
                        I'll get to weeping on your neck in a minute, just thinking about
                        her. I started in to tell you what a miserable little wretch she is and
                        I'm winding up by bragging about her. She's got that in
                        her! But she'll bust Amzi before she winds up. And I hope you
                        appreciate the value of that news. Old Amzi, if he has n't changed,
                        is a fat-head who's content to sit in his little bank and watch the
                        world go by. And I guess he's got a nice bunch of brothers-in-law
                        on his hands. Poor old Amzi! There was always something amusing about the
                        cuss, even when he was a smug little roly-poly as a boy. But I passed his
                        bank this morning and it looked  like an
                        undertaker's office. The contrast between that old tomb and your
                        plant pleases me, Will; it soothes my family pride. You are an able man and
                        I congratulate you on your success. Sam liked to cut didoes on thin ice a
                        little too well; but you're a born bankerinherited it from father;
                        and I guess I did n't do you so ill a turn after all when I cut
                        loose with Lois and broke up the old partnership. There was n't
                        enough room in Montgomery & Holton for all of us."
                    Several times William shifted his position uneasily. His brother's
                        flattery merely paved the way to a demandhe was confident of this; and he
                        had no intention of yielding to demands. To begin advances to this
                        melancholy wreck would be to establish a precedent for interminable
                        benefactions. It was better to deal with the matter at once. A clerk called
                        him out to speak to a customer and when he came back, Jack was moodily
                        glaring out upon the little court at the rear of the bank. William did not
                        seat himself again, but stood by the table, as though to indicate his
                        intention of terminating the interview.
                    "I can't give you any more time. Just what have you come
                        back for? I'm entitled to know, and we may as well have it
                        out."
                    "What have I come back for? I've come back to stay,
                        that's what I'm back for! I want a job, that's
                        all, and if you won't give me one, I'd like to know just
                        where your brotherly heart expects me to go."
                    "You can't stay here, Jack. You've got to clear
                        out. I don't mean to be hard on you, and I'll give you
                        enough to take you wherever you want to go; but you can't camp
                        here; you've got to move on. If you'd come back like a
                        gentleman, it might have been different; but the whole town's
                        upset. I'd just about lived you down, and here you come back and
                        stir up the whole mess. The way you came back puts us all in the hole; the
                        sympathy of the community was swinging round to our side a little, and even
                        the Montgomerys were making it clear that they were willing to let bygones
                        be bygones and here you come to spoil it all! And you've not only
                             got to go, but you've got to go
                        now, this very day by the first train."
                    This was received blinkingly. Jack shook his head as though in pity for his
                        brother's harshness.
                    "For a man brought up by a Christian father and mother to point the
                        door to a long-lost brother is painful, Will. It wounds me deeply. I tell
                        you right now that I'm not going away from here until I get good
                        and ready. Do you follow me?"
                    He rested the tips of his fingers on the table and bent toward his brother
                        with a cold glitter in his eyes. Under the mockery of his phrases a hot
                        anger lurked.
                    "All right," said William. "Stay, then. But you
                        can't hang yourself around my neck. Understand that right
                        here."
                    "You have n't heard all my story yet"
                    "I've heard all I'm going to hear. I've
                        heard enough to make me sick. I hope nobody else in this town will ever hear
                        it. It's worse than I had ever imaginedyou allowing that woman to
                        support you! And it's nauseating to think that you don't
                        realize the rottenness of it. But you seem to be incapable of any decent
                        feeling about anything."
                    "Stop sentimentalizing and listen to me. I did n't come
                        back here to enter upon a new social career; I came back on business. You
                        remember, Will, that Sam came West when you and he were selling bonds in
                        this Sycamore Traction line on which I rode proudly home last night. I
                        helped Sam sell a pretty big bunch of those bonds out there. Sam could sell
                        anythingSam was a wonder! and he planted a big bunch of those things along
                        the coastmy friends, you know. Sam's dead and gone now and I
                        ain't going to knock him'but Sam was an exuberant chap and
                        he overcalculated the cost of building the road. That was on the
                        construction company, but you and Sam were in thatsame old game of working
                        both sides of the street. It was just a mistake in figures, of course, but
                        some of those people out there hear the road ain't doing well, and
                        they're friends of mine, Will, valued friends, and now that
                        Sam's gone  it's up to you
                        and me to take care of 'emdo you follow me?"
                    "If that's what you're up to you've made
                        a big mistake. That road's one of the most successful traction
                        lines in the West, and pays its bond interest on the dot."
                    "Nothing easier; but I happen to know that the last payment was made
                        with borrowed money. Of course, only a little temporary accommodation, but
                        just the same it was n't paid out of earnings. And, Will, you ought
                        to be mighty carefulyou ought n't to advance bank funds for such a
                        purpose; it's damned bad business; it's downright immoral;
                        that's all! But how about the bonds your construction company
                        gotthat nice little margin between a fair profit for building the road and a
                        big fat steal at the expense of the bondholders? And you authorized the sale
                        of bonds at eighty to pay the construction bill, got ninety, and pocketed
                        the difference. Oh, you need n't get white and blink at me. I know
                        what he did with his share of the boodlehe had to take care of his political
                        chums he got into other schemes. I know all about Samhe was always
                        borrowing, we will call it, from Peter to pay Paul, and most of it got into
                        Sam's pocket. Now here's my position; right
                        here's where I come in. I'm going to help you take care of
                        this, but you've got to act white with me. I'm not going
                        to be kicked out of town not unless you go with me. Is that
                        plain?"
                    "You're a fool. I understand nothing except that
                        you're trying to blackmail me; and it won't go. Why, you
                        ought to know that the thing you accuse Sam of doing would have landed him
                        and me, too, in the penitentiary. What do you suppose the trustee for the
                        bondholders was doing? What do you imagine the New York investors were
                        thinking about?"
                    "They were asleep, Will," Jack replied, with a gleam of
                        malignant humor. "And Sam was awful slick. Sam could sell winter
                        underwear in hell. And I guess you could sell anthracite at a profit down
                        there, too. You talk about the family dignity;by George, I never started
                        with you  fellows! Running away with another
                        man's wife is tame business compared with your grafting. And
                        I've got a little more news for you. The clouds are gathering, you
                        might say, in all parts of the horizon." He swept the room with a
                        comprehensive gesture. "It's just one of those queer
                        twists of the screw of fate that brings us all up against Tom Kirkwood.
                        Tom's smart: he always was, and as straight a man as God Almighty
                        ever put on the footstool, and he's prying into Sycamore Traction.
                        I stopped off for a day or two in Indianapolis and got on to this. There was
                        a lawyer and an officer of the Desbrosses Trust & Guaranty Company
                        out here from New York to talk things over with Kirkwood, he has some pull
                        down there,and they've employed him. While Sam lived he watched
                        little things like that; filled up the accountants with champagne and took
                        care of the statements, but I guess you are not quite as smart as Sam. I
                        guess it's about all you can do to take care of the bank examiner
                        when he drops in to shake hands."
                    William had listened intently, his arms folded, a smile of derision on his
                        face.
                    "Just how much do you charge for this information?" he
                        demanded coldly.
                    "I'm not going to charge you; I'm going to help
                        you, Will. It's my duty as a brother to warn you and help you out
                        of trouble. Family feeling is strong in me: I'm not a man to let my
                        own brother go down if I can keep him up. I see it in your eye
                        that"
                    William flung round to the door and swung it open.
                    "Get out of here!"
                    "Oh, is that the answer? Then, all right!"
                    He picked up his hat, drew on his coat unhurriedly, walked calmly round the
                        table and lounged out of the bank.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XII
                    NAN BARTLETT'S DECISION
                    "DAD's gone to Indianapolis to be gone
                        several days and did n't expect to be back to-night; so come over
                        and stay with me, won't youplease? If you won't
                        I'll have to go to Aunt Josephine's, which is a
                        heartbreaking thought."
                    This was the second day after the party, and Nan agreed to go.
                        Phil's maid-of-all-work did not sleep at the house and the aunts
                        had asserted that Phil's new status as a member of society made
                        necessary some sort of chaperonage. Nan arrived at the house late in the
                        afternoon and found Phil opening a box of roses that had just come from
                        Indianapolis by express.
                    "American beauties! and grand ones!"
                    She handed Nan the card and watched her face as she read it.
                    "I should have guessed Charlie Holton," said Nan
                        colorlessly. "Well, they're fine specimens."
                    "It's very nice of him, I think," said Phil.
                        "Particularly when I was so snippy to him."
                    "Why did you snip him?" asked Nan, watching Phil thrust the
                        last of the long stems into a tall vase.
                    "Oh, he started in to rush me. And I guess he's some
                        rusher. I suppose he's had a lot of practice."
                    "I suppose he has," said Nan indifferently.
                    "And nobody ever gave me just the line of talk he puts up, except of
                        course Lawrince."
                    She feigned to be observing the adjustment of the roses with a particular
                        interest, and looking round caught Nan frowning.
                    "Is he trying to flirt with you? I supposed even he had his decent
                        moments. When did that happen?"
                    
                    "Oh, at the party; everything happened at the party."
                    "Two men making love to you on the same evening is a good record for
                        Montgomery. I suppose Lawrence played the ardent Romeo game; I understand
                        that he's better "off" than
                        "on." And you snipped him, of course."
                    "Oh, I mean to snip them all! Is n't that
                        right?"
                    "It's pathetic that Lawrence Hastings never quite forgets
                        that he played the banana circuit in repertoire. That man's an
                        awful bore."
                    "I find him amusing," said Phil provokingly. "And
                        he always gives me a box at matine$eAes. Which is just that much more than I
                        ever get out of my other imitation uncles. If I led him on a trifle,
                        don't you suppose he might come to the point of proposing to fly
                        with me? That would be a consummation devoutly to be worked
                        for."
                    "Phil, I'll send you to bed if you talk like
                        that."
                    "There's always the window and the old apple tree; I dare
                        you to put me to bed! I suppose," she said, nodding in the
                        direction of the roses, "that those are a sort of peace offering,
                        to make up for his uncle coming to the party as he did. If that's
                        the idea it was decent of him."
                    The maid brought in a box that had just been left at the kitchen door. Phil
                        ran to the window and caught a glimpse of a man closing the gate. It was
                        Fred Holton, in a long ulster with the collar turned up about his ears. He
                        untied his horse, attached to a ramshackle buggy, and drove off. Phil
                        recognized him instantly, but made no sign to Nan.
                    Across the top of the small pasteboard box, "Perishable"
                        was scrawled. Inside, neatly dressed, lay six quails. On a card was
                        written:
                    
                        "Compliments of Listening Hill Farm."
                    
                    "What's Listening Hill Farm?" asked Nan.
                    "That's Fred Holton's. He lives out there now.
                        It's just like that boy to slip round to the back door with an
                        offering like that. Roses from Charlie; birds from Fred. And
                        there's just about that difference between them."
                    
                    Nan's eyes clouded.
                    "Phil," she said with emphasis, "those three aunts
                        of yours have n't the sense of rabbits! The comparison flatters
                        them. They had no business asking the Holtons to your party. It was
                        unnecessaryit was absurd. It was cruel!"
                    Nan was not often like this. There was unmistakable indignation in her tone
                        as she continued:
                    "Your Uncle Amzi should have set his face against it. And I suppose
                        they were satisfied with the outcome; I devoutly hope so."
                    "Well, don't jump on Amy; he only let them have their way
                        to avoid a fuss. When the three of them descend on him they do try
                        Amy's soul; he never admits it, but I always know afterwards. It
                        unsettles him for a week."
                    "Those women," said Nan, "have been all over town
                        apologizing for Jack Holtonas though it was up to them to defend him for
                        turning up at your party vilely drunk. I tell you, Phil, I'm glad
                        you have the sense you have in that head of yours and that you've
                        grown up to a point where we can talk of things. The Holtons are no good!
                        There's a crooked streak in the whole lot. And all that's
                        the matter with your blessed trio of aunts is their ambition to stand well
                        with Mrs. William, and your precious uncles lean on the First National
                        counter when they want to borrow money. But you'd think
                        they'd have some respect for your father, for your uncle, for
                        you!"
                    "Oh, well, it's all over now," replied Phil.
                    "It's a good thing you're the wise child you are!
                        You understand perfectly that the Holtons are not for you in this world. And
                        if your father were n't the gentleman he is he would have made a
                        big row about those people being asked to your party: it was an insult, too
                        deep for my powers of description. Those women treat your father as though
                        he were a halfway idiota fool to be thrust around when it pleases them, and
                        to be the object of simpering tears when they want to play the pathetic in
                        speaking of your mother  to people. They are
                        detestable, contemptible. And Jack Holton's turning up at
                        Amzi's was the very last straw."
                    Phil gazed at Nan with increasing surprise. This was not the familiar Nan
                        Bartlett of the unfailing gentleness, the whimsical humor. This was almost a
                        scene, and scenes were not to the liking of either of the Bartlett
                        sisters.
                    "Daddy hardly referred to that, Nan. I don't think it
                        really troubled him."
                    "That's the worst of it, dear child! Of course he would
                        n't show feeling about it! That's the heartbreaking thing
                        about that father of yours, that he has borne that old trouble so bravely.
                        It was ghastly that that man of all men should have stumbled into
                        Amzi's house in that way. Nothing was ever nobler than the way your
                        father bore it."
                    She knelt suddenly and clasped Phil in her arms as though to shield her from
                        all the wrongs of the world. There were tears in Nan's eyes,
                        unmistakably, when Phil stroked her cheek, and then for the first time with
                        a sudden impulse Nan kissed her. Phil's intercourse with the
                        Bartletts had been in the key of happy companionship, marked with a
                        restraint that the girl respected and admired. There had been an
                        imperceptible line beyond which she had never carried her pranks with them.
                        Tears she had never associated with either of the sisters. She would have
                        assumed, if it had ever been a question in her mind, that Rose would have
                        been the likelier to yield to emotion.
                    Nan walked to the window and looked out upon the slowly falling snow. Phil
                        was busy for a moment readjusting herself to the new intimacy established by
                        the sight of her friend's agitation. These first tears that Phil
                        had ever seen in Nan's eyes had a clarifying effect upon her
                        consciousness and understanding. There flashed upon her keen mind a thought
                        startling, almost incredible. It was as though in some strange fashion, in
                        the unlikeliest spot, she had come upon a rare flower, too marvelous to
                        breathe upon. Her quick wits held it off guardedly for bewildered
                        inspection. Could it be possible that it was for her father that Nan had
                        yielded to  tears? Beneath liking and sympathy
                        might there lie a deeper feeling than friendship in this woman's
                        heart? There had always seemed to be an even balance of regard for the
                        sisters in all her father's intercourse with Buckeye Lane. They had
                        been a refuge and resource, but she had imagined that he went there as she
                        did because it was the very pleasantest place in town to visit. Whether he
                        admired one more than the other had never been a problem in her mind, though
                        now she recalled the intimations of her auntsintimations which she had cast
                        into the limbo to which she committed their views and insinuations on most
                        topics. Phil stood by the black slate mantel of the shelflined sitting-room,
                        her heart beating fast. But Nan turned to her laughingly.
                    "It's old age, Phil! Rose always tells me that I must stop
                        peppering my victuals or I'll become one of the sobbing sisterhood
                        one of these days. What have you been reading lately, Phil?"
                    "Just finished "The Gray Knight of Picardy." Daddy
                        did n't want me to read itsaid it was only half good and that I
                        ought n't to waste time on books that were n't a hundred
                        per cent good. I think it's bully. I'm crazy about it.
                        It's so beautifully, deliciously funny. And Nanwhy, Nan, it sounds
                        just like you!"
                    "Elucidate," remarked Nan carelessly.
                    "Oh, it's like you, some of itthe general absurdness of it
                        all; and then some of it is so amazingly like dadwhen he has a
                        highfalutin' fit and talks through his hat in the old Morte Darthur
                        lingo. It's Malory brought up to date, with a dash of Quixote. I
                        nearly died at that place where the knight breaks his lance on the first
                        automobile he ever saw and then rides at the head of the circus parade.
                        It's certainly a ticklesome yarn."
                    She advanced upon Nan dramatically, with arm outstretched, pointing
                        accusingly. "Look me in the eye, Nan! Did you and daddy frame that
                        up between you? Be careful now! Dad wrote prodigiously all last winterlet me
                        think  it was a brief; and you and he used to
                        get your heads together a good deal, private like, and I feigned not to
                        notice because I thought you were talking about me!"
                    She clasped Nan by the wrists and laughed into her eyes.
                    "Go and sit in your little chair, Phil. Your intuitions are playing
                        tricks with your judgment."
                    "Fudge! I know it's true now. The author's name in
                        the book is a nom de plume. I saw that in a literary note
                        somewhere."
                    Nan had seriously hoped Phil would not learn of the joint authorship; but
                        already it was an accepted fact in the girl's mind. She was smitten
                        with contrition for her blindness in having failed to see earlier what was
                        now plain enough! Nan was in love with her father! Their collaboration upon
                        a book only added plausibility to her surmise. Nothing could be plainer,
                        nothing, indeed, more fitting! Her heart warmed at the thought. Her father
                        stood forth in a new light; she was torn with self-accusations for her
                        stupidity in not having seen it all before. Admitting nothing, Nan parried
                        her thrusts about the "Gray Knight." When Phil caught up
                        the book and began to read a passage that she had found particularly
                        diverting, and which she declared to be altogether
                        "Nanesque," as she put it, Nan snatched the book away and
                        declined to discuss the subject further.
                    Nan had recovered her spirits, and the two gave free rein to the badinage in
                        which they commonly indulged.
                    They were sitting down at the table when Kirkwood arrived. He had found it
                        possible to come home for the night and run back to the city in the morning.
                        Now that Phil's suspicions had been aroused as to Nan, she was
                        alert for any manifestation of reciprocal feeling in her father. He was
                        clearly pleased to find Nan in his house; but there was nothing new in this.
                        He would have been as glad to see Rose, Phil was sure. Phil launched
                        daringly upon "The Gray Knight of Picardy," parrying
                        evasion and shattering the wall of dissimulation behind which they sought to
                        entrench themselves. It was just like Nan and her father; no one else  would ever have thought up anything so
                        preposterous, so killingly funny. She went for the book and cited chapters
                        and attributed them, one after the other, to the collaborators.
                    "Oh, you can't tell me! That talk between the knight and
                        the cigar-store Indian is yours, Nan; and the place where he finds the
                        militia drilling and chases the colonel into the creek is yours, daddy! And
                        I'm ashamed of both of you that you never told me! What have I done
                        to be left out of a joke like this! You might have let me squeeze in a
                        little chapter somewhere. I always thought I could write a book if some one
                        would give me a good start."
                    "We're cornered," said Nan finally. "But
                        we'll have to bribe her."
                    "I came by the office and found some more letters from magazines
                        that want short stories, serials, anything from the gifted author of
                        "The Gray Knight of Picardy,"" said Kirkwood.
                        "Why not enlarge the syndicate, Nan, and let Phil in? But
                        I've got to retire; I must n't even be suspected. This is
                        serious. It would kill my prospects as a lawyer if it got out on me that I
                        dallied at literature. It's no joke that the law is a jealous
                        mistress. And now I have the biggest case I ever had; and likely to be the
                        most profitable. How do we come by these birds, Phil?"
                    "Fred Holton brought them in, daddy. You remember him; he was at the
                        party."
                    "Yes; I remember, Phil. He's Samuel's boy,
                        who's gone to live on their old farm."
                    Nan turned the talk away from the Holtons and they went into the living-room
                        where Kirkwood read some of the notices he had found in his mail. He
                        improvised a number of criticisms ridiculing the book mercilessly and he
                        abused the imaginary authors until, going too far, Phil snatched away the
                        clippings and convicted him of fraud. She declared that he deserved a
                        mussing and drove him to a corner to make the threat good, and only relented
                        when she had exacted a promise from him never to leave her out again in any
                        of his literary connivings with Nan.
                    
                    The wind whistled round the house, and drove the snow against the panes. A
                        snowstorm makes for intimacy, and the three sat by the grate cozily,
                        laughing and talking; it was chiefly books they discussed. This was the
                        first time Nan had ever shared a winter-night fireside with the Kirkwoods,
                        much as she saw of them. And Phil was aware of a fitness in the ordering of
                        the group before the glowing little grate. The very books on the high
                        shelves seemed to make a background for Nan. Nothing could be more natural
                        than that she should abide there forever. Phil became so engrossed in her
                        speculations that she dropped out of the talk. Inevitably the vague shadow
                        of the mother she had never known stole into the picture. She recalled the
                        incident of the broken negative that had slipped from her father's
                        fingers upon the floor of the abandoned photograph gallery. Her young
                        imagination was kindled, and her sympathies went out to the man and woman
                        who sat there before the little grate, so clearly speaking the same
                        language, so drawn together by common interests and aspirations.
                    She was brought to earth by Nan's sudden exclamation that she must
                        go home. There was no question about it, she said, when they pleaded the
                        storm as a reason for spending the night; she had come merely to relieve
                        Phil's loneliness. Nan protested that she could go alone; but
                        Kirkwood without debating the matter got into his ulster, and Phil, screened
                        by the door, watched them pass under the electric light at the corner.
                    The streets were deserted and the storm had its will with the world. Nan and
                        Kirkwood stopped for breath and to shake off the snow where a
                        grocer's shed protected the sidewalk.
                    "I came back to-night," he said, "because I wanted
                        to see you, and I knew I should find you with Phil. Nan, after what happened
                        at Amzi's the other night I find I need you more than I ever knew.
                        I was afraid you might imagine that would make a difference. But not in the
                        way you may think  not about Lois! It was just
                        the thought of himthat he had once been my friend, and came back like that.
                        It was only that, Nan. If she had come back and stood there in the door I
                        should n't have had a twinge. I'm all over that.
                        I've been over it for a long time."
                    "I think I understand that, but nothing can make any difference as
                        to us. That is one thing that is not for this world! Come, we must hurry
                        on!"
                    As she took a step forward he sprang in front of her.
                    "Nan, I've got to go back to the city on the morning train.
                        I want you to tell me now that you will marry me let us say in the spring.
                        Let me have that to look forward to. I've waited a long time, and
                        the years are passing. I want you to say "yes"
                        to-night."
                    He touched her shoulders lightly with his hands. They slipped along her arms
                        till he clasped her fingers, tightly clenched in her muff.
                    "You love me, Nan; I know you do! And you have known a long time
                        that I care for you. Nothing was ever as dear as the thought of you.
                        Whatever has gone before in my life is done and passed. I can't
                        have you say "no" to me. Please, dear
                        Nandearest!"
                    It was a strange place for lovers' talk, but the tumult of the storm
                        was in Kirkwood's heart. The weariness of a laborious day vanished
                        in the presence of this woman. His habitual restraint, the reticences of his
                        nature were swept away. His was no midsummer passion; winter's
                        battle-song throbbed in his pulses. He caught her arm roughly as she sought
                        to continue their flight.
                    "No, Tom; no!"
                    "Then why?" he persisted. "It can't be
                        because of Lois you can't suspect that even the thought of her
                        wounds me now. Jack's coming back proved that to me: I mean what I
                        say; I don't care any more! There's nothing for me in this
                        world but youyou and Phil! The memory of that other woman is gone; I give
                        myself to you as though she had never been."
                    
                    "Oh, Tom, I don't believe you! I don't believe any
                        man like you ever forgets! And Phil mustn't know you even think you
                        have forgotten! That would be wrong; it would be a great sin! She must never
                        think you have forgotten the woman who is her mother. And it is n't
                        right that you should forget! There are men that might, but not you not you,
                        dear Tom!"
                    She shook off his hands and flung herself against the storm. He plunged after
                        her, following perforce. It was impossible to talk, so blinding was the
                        slant of snow and sleet in their faces. She drove on with the energy born of
                        a new determination, and he made no effort to speak again as he tramped
                        beside her.
                    When they reached the house in Buckeye Lane he sought to detain her with a
                        plaintive "Please, Nan?" But she rapped on the door and
                        when Rose opened it slipped in, throwing a breathless good-night over her
                        shoulder.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIII
                    THE BEST INTERESTS OF MONTGOMERY
                    PHIL dropped into the "Evening Star"
                        office to write an item about the approaching Christmas fair at Center
                        Church, for which she was the publicity agent. Incidentally she asked Billy
                        Barker, the editor, to instruct her in the delicate art of proof-reading. As
                        he was an old friend she did not mind letting him into the secret of
                        "The Dogs of Main Street." Barker's editorial
                        sense was immediately roused by Phil's disclosure. He said he would
                        write to "Journey's End" for advance sheets and
                        make it a first-page feature the day it appeared.
                    Montgomery was a literary center; in the early eighties it had been referred
                        to by the Boston "Transcript" as the Hoosier Athens; and
                        the Athenians withheld not the laurel from the brows of their bards,
                        romancers, and essayists. Not since Barker had foreshadowed the publication
                        of "The Deathless Legion," General Whitcomb's
                        famous tale of the Caesars, had anything occurred that promised so great a
                        sensation as the news that Phil had ventured into the field of authorship.
                        Barker even fashioned phrases in which he meant to publish the glad tidings,
                        "a brilliant addition to the Hoosier group"; "a
                        new Jane Austen knocks at the door of Fame," etc. He jotted down a
                        list of the commonest typographical symbols, and warned Phil against an
                        over-indulgence in changes, as it might prejudice the
                        "Journey's End" office against her.
                    "I was about to offer you a job, Phil, but now that you're
                        a high-priced magazine writer I'm ashamed to do it. Our local has
                        skipped and I'm almost up against going out to chase a few items
                        myself. You might pull out that church fair a few joints, or I'll
                        be reduced to shoving in boiler plate  on the
                        first page; which is reprehensible. Kindly humble yourself and give me some
                        "Personal and Society,"some of your highly interesting
                        family must be doing something or somebody,dish it up and don't
                        spare the gravy."
                    "You have n't heard rumors that the Hastings is to be
                        turned into a fil-lum show-house, have you?" asked Phil, fishing a
                        lead pencil stub from her pocket.
                    "Lord, no! Has our own Hamlet come to that? Write a hot roast of it;
                        turn the screw on this commercializing of our only theaterthis base betrayal
                        of public confidence by one to whom we all looked for nobler things.
                        I'm sore at Lawrence anyhow for kicking at our write-up of those
                        outlaws who strolled through here playing "She Never Told Her
                        Love." The fact is that girl told it in the voice of one who should
                        be bawling quick orders in a hole-in-the-wall restaurant. Here's
                        where we taunt Mr. Hastings with his own lofty idealism. Have all the fun
                        with him you like; and not a soul shall ever know from me who knocked
                        him."
                    Phil nibbled her pencil meditatively.
                    "You've got the wrong number. Lawrince has n't
                        found the price yet; he's only getting estimates; but
                        you'd better coax him to make the changebring the drammer closer to
                        the hearts of the people. None of these cheap fil-lums where a comic dog
                        runs in and upsets the tea-table, just as the parson is about to say grace,
                        but the world's greatest artists brought within the reach of all
                        who command the homely nickel. Do you follow me, O protector of the
                        poor?"
                    "I see your family pride is stung, Phil. Let it go at that.
                        There's a cut of Hastings as Romeo that I'm utilizing as a
                        paper-weight, and I'll run that just to show there's no
                        hard feeling. By the by, Phil, how's your pa getting on with the
                        traction company?"
                    "Nothing doing! I'm not as foolish as I am young. And
                        besides I don't know."
                    The editor took a turn across the room and rumpled his hair. He pointed to a
                        clipping on his desk from the Indianapolis 
                        "Advertiser" of that morning. The headlines
                        proclaimed:
                    
                        SCANDAL IN SYCAMORE TRACTION RUMORS THAT RECEIVERSHIP IS
                            IMMINENT FOREIGN BONDHOLDERS THREATENING HOLTON ESTATE TO BE
                            INVESTIGATED
                    
                    Phil's face grew serious. Her father had not been home for several
                        days and she knew that his business in Indianapolis had absorbed his time
                        and attention increasingly.
                    "I'm sure I don't know anything about
                        it," she answered, "and of course if you thought I did you
                        would n't ask me."
                    "Of course not, Phil. But it's a mess. And I don't
                        know whether to print something about it or let it go. Bill
                        Holton's out of town and I don't like to shoot without
                        giving him a chance. But I owe him a few. If the company goes bust,
                        there's going to be a row round here we won't forget in a
                        hurry. Every widow and orphan in the county has got some of that stuff. They
                        worked that racket as hard as they couldhome road for the home people.
                        What's the answer?"
                    Phil drew up the editor's clip of paper and wrote:
                    "Mr. Amzi Montgomery went to Indianapolis yesterday to attend the
                        Nordica concert."
                    Barker stared at this item blankly.
                    "What's that got to do with it?"
                    "Nothing," said Phil indifferently; "it's
                        only an item."
                    "Amzi's always going to concerts," remarked the
                        editor inconsequently.
                    "I thought maybe he was n't going to this one, for the
                        excellent reason that he declined to take me along."
                    Barker ran his hand through his hair, looked at Phil with dawning
                        intelligence, and his brow cleared.
                    "I have n't said anything," remarked Phil
                        discreetly, "because I don't know anything."
                    
                    Barker put on his coat and hat.
                    "Guess I'll go out and sniff the local feeling on this
                        proposition. It's about time I blew the lid off and said a few
                        things about Bill Holton. If Bernstein brings in copy for his Christmas
                        "ad," whistle for the boy and tell 'em to hustle
                        it. Hang your stuff on the hook and I'll write the heads later.
                        Don't let your playful humor get away with you, and if any farmers
                        come in with the biggest pumpkin ever raised on Sugar Creek, note the name
                        and weight carefully, call the boy and send the precious fruit right home to
                        our wife. Our annual biggest pumpkin is long overdue and undelivered. You
                        might just head that item "When the Frost is on the
                        Punkin." We have captious subscribers who check up on favorite
                        quotations and our aim is to please one and all."
                    A desk stood by the window from which the editorial eye in its frenzied
                        rollings enjoyed a fine sweep of Main Street. To Phil Main Street ran round
                        the world. Its variety was infinite. No one knew the ways, the interests,
                        the joys and sorrows of Montgomery better than she. Every one was, in a
                        sense, a character. More or less unconsciously she fitted them all into
                        little dramas, or sketched them with swift, telling strokes. The fact that
                        this Main Street summarized American life; that there were hundreds of Main
                        Streets presenting much the same types, the same mild encounters and
                        incidents, appealed to her sense of humor. Her longest journey in the world
                        had been a summer excursion to New England with her father, and she had been
                        struck by the similarity of the phenomena observable in Williamstown,
                        Pittsfield, Northamptonand Montgomery! In every town, no matter what its
                        name, there was always the same sleepy team in front of the
                        Farmers' Bank, the same boy chasing his hat, the same hack-driver
                        in front of the hotel, the same pretty girl bowing to the same delighted
                        young man near the same town pump or the soldiers' monument in the
                        square.
                    Phil wrote busily. It was easy for her to write, and when,  looking up casually, items were suggested to
                        her by the passers-by, she returned to her work with a smile on her face.
                        Judge Walters passed carrying a satchel; this meant that he had returned
                        from holding court in Boone County; Captain Wilson stumped by with a strange
                        young man who Phil reasoned immediately must be the nephew he had expected
                        to visit him during the holidays. The new auto-truck of the express company,
                        which had long been forecast in Main Street rumor, rumbled by, and she
                        heralded its arrival in a crisp paragraph. "Spress," the
                        venerable dog that for ages had followed the company's old horse
                        and wagon, was at last out of commission, Phil's
                        "brevity" recited. The foreman came in from the
                        composing-room, told her gravely that the paper was overset, and departed
                        with her copy.
                    She took up the article relating to Sycamore Traction and read it through to
                        the end. Many of the terms meant nothing to her; but the guarded intimations
                        of improper conduct on the part of the promoters and directors were
                        sufficiently clear. What interested her most of all was the accusation,
                        cautiously attributed "to one in a position to know," that
                        the estate of Samuel Holton had been so manipulated as to conceal part of
                        the assets, and that a movement was on foot to reopen the estate with a view
                        to challenging the inventory. The names of Charles Holton and his Uncle
                        William, president of the First National Bank of Montgomery, appeared
                        frequently in the article, which closed with a statement signed by both men
                        that the stories afloat were baseless fabrications; that the company was
                        earning its charges and that the rumors abroad through the state were the
                        result of a conspiracy by a number of stockholders to seize control of the
                        company.
                    Looking up, Phil saw her father pass the window, and before she could knock
                        on the glass to attract his attention he came in hurriedly.
                    "'Lo, daddy!"
                    "What are you up to, Phil? Where's Barker?"
                    "Out taking the air. His local's quit and I'm
                        doing a few  literary gems for him."
                        She rose and leaned across the counter. Anxiety was plainly written on her
                        father's face, and she surmised that something of importance had
                        brought him back from the city at this hour. He had not expected to return
                        until Saturday, and this was only Thursday.
                    "I must see Barker. Where do you suppose he went?"
                    "He's trying to make up his mind what to do about
                        that," said Phil, indicating the clipping.
                    Kirkwood took from his pocket several sheets of typewritten legal cap, and
                        ran them over.
                    "I want him to print this; it must get in to-day. The people here
                        must n't be stampeded by those stories. A repetition of them in the
                        "Star" might do great harm incalculable harm to the
                        community and to all its interests."
                    "It does n't sound prettythat piece in the
                        "Advertiser.""
                    "It's all surmise and speculation. That's what
                        I've been in the city about lately; and if they give us a chance
                        we'll pull it out without scandal."
                    "Suppose I write an interview with you along that line and stick
                        your statement on the end of it?"
                    "I'll have to see Barker first: he's supposed to
                        be unfriendly to the Holtonsold political feeling."
                    It occurred to Phil that it was odd for her father to be interposing himself
                        between the Holtons and scandalous insinuations of the press as to their
                        integrity. Tom Kirkwood reflected a moment, then opened the gate in the
                        office railing and sat down beside her.
                    "I've got to get the twelve o'clock train
                        back," he said, "and this must go in to-day. We must
                        reassure the people as quickly as possible."
                    She wrote an opening paragraph without further parley and read it. He made a
                        few changes, and then dictated a statement as attorney for the Desbrosses
                        Trust & Guaranty Company, trustee for the Sycamore bondholders.
                    The stories set afloat at Indianapolis were gross exaggerations, he declared,
                        and there was no occasion for alarm in  any
                        quarter. It was true that the company had suffered serious losses owing to
                        unfortunate accidents, but these were not of a character to jeopardize the
                        interests of bondholders. A thorough investigation was in progress, and
                        judgment should be reserved until the exact truth should be known. The
                        trustee meant to safeguard every interest of the investors.
                    Kirkwood was lost in thought for several minutes, and then took a sheet of
                        paper and experimented with a number of sentences until these survived his
                        careful editing:
                    "I personally believe that the affairs of the Sycamore Traction
                        Company will be speedily adjusted in a way that will satisfy those
                        concerned, and meanwhile all efforts to shake public confidence in any of
                        the interests or institutions of Montgomery can only react disastrously upon
                        those guilty of such attempts."
                    He read this over frowningly.
                    "I think that will be all, Phil," he said, handing her a
                        clean copy.
                    While she was numbering the pages, Barker came in and Kirkwood drew him into
                        a corner, where they conversed earnestly. The editor had met that morning
                        many citizens who spoke bitterly of the Sycamore Traction Company. The
                        Indianapolis "Advertiser's" circulation in
                        Montgomery was almost equal to that of the "Evening Star";
                        and on the wintry corners of Main Street, in the lobby of the Morton House,
                        and in the court-house, men were speculating as to the effect of the reports
                        from Indianapolis upon the Holton bank. The Holtons were Democrats and the
                        "Evening Star" was the Republican county organ. Barker
                        disliked William Holton on personal grounds and here was his chance for
                        reprisal.
                    "They're all crooks," said the editor hotly; and
                        cut Kirkwood short with "No one knows that better than
                        you."
                    Kirkwood ignored this thrust.
                    "It is n't your feeling or mine, Barker, about these  people. It's the town and its best
                        interests we've got to consider. I give you my word that I believe
                        these kinks in Sycamore will be straightened out. Nobody knows more about
                        the situation than I do. If you repeat this "Advertiser"
                        article, you'll start a run on the First National Bank, and if it
                        should go down, it would n't do any of us any good, would it? It
                        would n't help the town any, would it? I want you to trust me about
                        this. There's no question of newspaper enterprise involved; but
                        there is a chance for you to serve the community. The very fact that you
                        have never been friendly to the Holtons will give additional weight to what
                        you print to-day. I'm not asking you to smother this talk as a
                        favor to me, but for the good of the townall of us. And I believe
                        you're big enough and broad enough to see it."
                    Barker was reluctant to yield. His paper was one of the most influential
                        country papers in the state. He was proud of its reputation and anxious to
                        do nothing that would injure its hard-won prestige.
                    "That's all right, Kirkwood, but how about that swindling
                        construction company the Holtons worked as a side line? The bad service the
                        company has given from the start pretty nearly proves that there was crooked
                        work there. How do you get around that?"
                    "You'll have to believe what I say, that we will handle it
                        all to the satisfaction of the public. But smashing a bank won't
                        help any. We're trying to manage in such way that no innocent party
                        will suffer."
                    "Well, there's nothing innocent about these Holtons. Sam
                        died and got out of it, but Will and this young Charlie are off the same
                        block. And now Jack's come back to make trouble for them. I
                        don't see myself jumping in to protect these fellows; if
                        they've got themselves in a hole, let them wiggle
                        out."
                    "You're not talking like a reasonable human being, Barker.
                        Try to overcome personal prejudices. Just remember that several hundred
                        peopleour friends and neighbors  are going to
                        be hurt if the bank fails. I've just headed off Waterman. He was
                        about to bring suit for a receiver on behalf of one of the local bondholders
                        on the ground of mismanagement. That would be a mistake. It's in
                        our plans to bring up the road's efficiency at once. The trustee is
                        in a position to do that. I want you to help me quiet these disturbing
                        rumors. If I did n't believe it would all come out right,
                        I'd tell you so very frankly."
                    Barker shrugged his shoulders and walked to his desk. He read Phil's
                        introduction and the accompanying statement with Kirkwood's name
                        attached.
                    "All right, Tom. But remember that this is personal to you; I would
                        n't do it for any other man on earth."
                    "You're doing it for the town, Barker. We're all
                        friends and neighbors here; and I give you my word that you won't
                        regret it. I've got to run, Phil. Sorry; but I'll be back
                        in a day or two. How are Nan and Rose?"
                    "Fine."
                    "Nan staying with you?"
                    "No; I've moved over there for a few days."
                    "That's all right. Give them my compliments."
                    The door closed on him as Barker came back from the composing-room, where he
                        had carried the Sycamore article and ordered it double-leaded. Phil,
                        gathering up her belongings, lingered for a word. Barker ripped the wrapper
                        from an exchange absently.
                    "Phil, you've never suspected your father of being a little
                        touched in his upper story, have you?"
                    "That short-circuited; say it some other way," observed
                        Phil, buttoning her glove.
                    "That dad of yours, Phil, if he ain't plumb crazy, is the
                        whitest white man that ever trod the footstool. I always suspected him of
                        being tolerably highminded, but I guess if ever a man climbed on top of his
                        soul and knew that he was the boss of it with the help of Almighty God, that
                        man is Tom Kirkwood. It's got me fuddled, Phil. It's
                        addled me like the report of a tariff commission or an argument for  government ownership of laying hens; but I
                        respect it, and I admire it. Be good to your daddy. So far as I know he has
                        n't any competition in his class."
                    Phil pondered this as she walked toward Buckeye Lane. It was not necessary
                        for her to understand the intricacies of the traction company's
                        troubles to realize that her father had interceded for the Holtons.
                        Barker's praise of him warmed her heart. She knew that her father
                        was by no means tame and bloodless. In many long talks, tramping and
                        camping, they had discussed nearly every subject under the sun; and she knew
                        that his wrath blazed sometimes at the evils and wrongs of the world. Once
                        she had gone unbidden to the court-house to hear him speak in a criminal
                        case, where he had volunteered to defend an Italian railroad laborer who had
                        been attacked by a gang of local toughs and in the ensuing fight had stabbed
                        one of his assailants. Kirkwood was not an orator by the accepted local
                        standard,a standard established by "Dan" Voorhees and
                        General "Tom" Nelson of an earlier generation,but that
                        afternoon, after pitilessly analyzing the state's case, he had
                        yielded himself to a passionate appeal for the ignorant alien that had
                        thrilled through her as great music did. She had never forgotten that; it
                        had given her a new idea of her father. There had been something awful and
                        terrifying in his arraignment of the witnesses who sought to swear away the
                        cowed prisoner's liberty. Her father's gentleness, his
                        habitual restraint, had seemed finer and nobler after that.
                    In the nature of her upbringing Phil had developed the habit of thinking her
                        way out of perplexities. Her intimate knowledge of the history and
                        traditions of Montgomery furnished the basis for a healthy philosophy, and
                        the wide range of her well-directed reading had opened doors that let in
                        upon her intelligence much of the light and shadow of human experience.
                        Happiness was not, she knew, an inalienable right, but something to be
                        sought and worked for. Her thoughts played about her father and his lifethat
                        broken column of a life, with its pathetic edges! What would become  of him and Nan, now that she knew Nan loved
                        him, and imaginably, he loved her? For the first time in her life she found
                        her face pressed against a dark pane, unable to see light.
                    She was conscious that some one was walking rapidly behind her, and she
                        whirled round, as her name was spoken. It was Fred Holton, who had evidently
                        been following her.
                    "Why so formal! Why did n't you whistle?" she
                        asked, shaking hands with him. "Those birds you sent me were meat
                        for gods.
                    
                        "Then mighty Jove,
                        Grabbing the last brown quail from off the plate,
                        Shouted, "For gods alone such food"; and bade
                        Dian to skip, with bow well bent, and bring
                        A billion birds to grace another feast.""
                    
                    "If Dian filled that order," said Fred, "it would
                        get her into trouble with the game warden."
                    "That was one good thing about the gods," remarked Phil as
                        he caught step with her; "they did n't have to be afraid
                        of policemen. How did you come to tear yourself loose from Stop 7
                        to-day?"
                    "Trouble, if you want the real truth."
                    They had reached the college and were walking along the Buckeye Lane side of
                        the campus. Fred was wrapped in his ulster and wore an old fur cap with its
                        ear-flaps gathered up and tied on top. Now that the first pleasure of the
                        meeting had passed, an anxious look had come into his face. He stared
                        straight ahead, walking doggedly.
                    "I came into town to see your father, but I just missed him. I
                        wanted to talk to him."
                    "He has n't been in town much lately and he was only here
                        for an hour this morning. But he'll be back in a few
                        days."
                    I'm sorry," said Fred, "not to see him
                        to-day."
                    Just what business he had with her father she could not imagine; but she was
                        sorry for his trouble, whatever it might be. In her recent reflections
                        touching the Holtons she  had not thought of
                        Fred at all; nor did it occur to her now that he was in any way concerned
                        with the Sycamore difficulties.
                    "Miss Kirkwood"
                    "Well, Mr. Holton, if you will be real nice, I'll let you
                        call me Phil. I met you before I grew upthat night I danced in the
                        cornfield. The moon introduced and chaperoned us, after a fashion, so
                        we'll consider that you belong to the earlier period of what might
                        be called my life. That was my last fling. When I came home that night I was
                        a grown-up. How do you like that, Fred?
                    "More than I care to say!" And his face lighted.
                    He realized perfectly that knowing his diffidence she was trying to make
                        things easier for him, just as she had at her party. Phil was wondering
                        whether she dared ask him to go to the Bartletts' with her for
                        luncheon.
                    "It's lonesome, Phil, not having anybody to talk to about
                        your troubles. There are times when we've got to lean up against
                        advice."
                    "They say I never do much leaning," Phil replied.
                        "My aunts say it. There ought to be a place like a post-office
                        where you could poke in a question and get the answer right back; but there
                        is n't."
                    "Our folks are in a lot of trouble, according to the
                        papers," said Fred. "That's what I wanted to see
                        your father about."
                    "Oh!"
                    "I felt that I ought to see him as soon as possible."
                    "I would n't trouble about what's in the papers.
                        That's what my father came back for to-dayto head off the home
                        papers about the traction company."
                    "Just how do you mean?" he asked, clearly puzzled.
                        "I thought he was on the other side of the case."
                    "Well, the "Star" this evening will say that
                        everything will be all right, and for people not to get excited. I
                        don't see why you should bother. You're a farmer and not
                        mixed up in the traction business."
                    
                    He seemed not to notice when they reached and passed the Bartletts',
                        though she had told him she was going there for luncheon.
                    "They say Charlie did n't play straight in settling
                        father's estate; that it's going to be opened up and that
                        we've got to give back what we got from it. The
                        "Advertiser" had all that this morning. Perry brought me
                        his paper and we talked it over before I came in. He said it was
                        n't any of my business; but I think it is. We owe it to fatherall
                        of usif there's anything wrong, to show our willingness to open up
                        the estate. I thought I'd like to tell your father
                        that."
                    "We've got to turn back here. I understand how you feel,
                        but I can't advise you about that. That article said you were
                        n't responsibleit said in very unpleasant words that you had been
                        robbed, and that giving you the farm and making you think that was your fair
                        share was a part of the fraud. If they should go into that, you might get a
                        lot more. Is n't that so?"
                    "I don't believe Charlie did it; I don't believe
                        it any more than I believe that my father made money unfairly out of the
                        building of the trolley line. But it's up to us to reply to this
                        attack in a way to stop all criticism. We can't have people
                        thinking such things about us," he went on more earnestly.
                        "It's ghastly! And I'm going to surrender the
                        farm; I won't keep it if these things are true or half true. I
                        won't hold an acre of it until these questions are
                        settled!"
                    "That sounds square enough. But I don't know anything about
                        it. Just on general principles, as long as you're not mixed up in
                        the fuss, I'd hang on to my farm, particularly if you were entitled
                        to more than you got. But you need a lawyer, not a girl to talk
                        to."
                    "I suppose that's so; and I ought n't to have
                        talked to you about it at all. But somehow"
                    They had reached the Bartletts' again and Phil paused with her hand
                        on the gate. She had decided not to ask him in to luncheon; his mood was not
                        one that promised well for  a luncheon party;
                        and Nan, at least, had clearly manifested her unfriendliness toward all the
                        Holtons.
                    "Somehow, I felt that I'd like to tell you how I felt about
                        it. I should n't want you to think we were as bad as that story in
                        the "Advertiser" makes us out."
                    "That's all right, Fred. This will all come out
                        right"; and Phil swung open the gate and stepped into the little
                        yard.
                    "I want," said Fred, detainingly, speaking across the gate;
                        "I want you to think well of me! I care a good deal about what you
                        think of me!"
                    "Oh, everybody thinks well of you!" answered Phil, and
                        caught up the drumstick and announced herself.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIV
                    TURKEY RUN
                    A WEEK before Christmas Mrs. William Holton gave a
                        sleigh-ride and skating-party for a niece from Memphis, and Phil was
                        invited. She mentioned the matter to her father, and asked him what she
                        should do about it.
                    He had come back from Indianapolis in good spirits, and told her that the
                        affairs of the traction company had been adjusted and that he hoped there
                        would be no more trouble. He seemed infinitely relieved by the outcome, and
                        his satisfaction expressed itself to her observing eyes in many ways. The
                        confidence reposed in him by his old friend, the counsel of the Desbrosses
                        Trust & Guaranty Company, had not only pleased him, but the success
                        that had attended his efforts to adjust the traction company's
                        difficulties without resorting to the courts had strengthened his waning
                        self-confidence. He even appeared in a new suit of clothes, and with his
                        beard cut shorter than he usually wore it,changes that evoked the raillery
                        in which Phil liked to indulge herself. He was promised the care of certain
                        other Western interests of the Trust Company, and he had been offered a
                        partnership in Indianapolis by one of the best lawyers in the state.
                    "Things are looking up, Phil. If another year had gone by in the old
                        way, I should have been ready for the scrap heap. But I miss the cooking our
                        poverty introduced me to; and I shan't have any more time for
                        fooling with excursions into Picardy with the Gray Knight. By the way, I
                        found some strange manuscript on my desk at the office to-day. If
                        you've take up the literary life you'll have to be careful
                        how you leave your vestigia in lawyers' offices. It was page
                        eighteen of something that I took the liberty of reading, and I thirsted for
                        more."
                    
                    She had not told him about "The Dogs of Main Street,"
                        wishing to wait until she could put the magazine containing it into his
                        hands. Under the stimulus of the acceptance of her sketch she had been
                        scratching vigorously in her spare moments. Having begun with dogs she
                        meditated an attack upon man, and the incriminating page she had left behind
                        in her father's office was a part of a story she was writing based
                        upon an incident that had occurred at a reunion of Captain Wilson's
                        regiment that fall in Montgomery. A man who had been drummed out of the
                        regiment for cowardice suddenly reappeared among his old comrades with an
                        explanation that restored him to honored fellowship. Phil had elaborated the
                        real incident as Captain Wilson described it, and invested it with the
                        element of "suspense," which she had read somewhere was
                        essential to the short story.
                    Phil was living just now in a state of exaltation. She began a notebook after
                        the manner of Hawthorne's, and was astonished at the ease with
                        which she filled its pages. Now that her interest was aroused she saw
                        "material" everywhere. The high school had given her
                        German and French, and having heard her father say that the French were the
                        great masters of fiction, she addressed herself to Balzac and Hugo. The
                        personalities of favorite contemporaneous writers interested her
                        tremendously, and she sought old files of literary periodicals that she
                        might inform herself as to their methods of work. She kept Lamb and
                        Stevenson on the stand by her bed and read them religiously every night.
                        There had never been any fun like this! Her enjoyment of this secret inner
                        life was so satisfying that she wished no one might ever know of it. She
                        wrote and rewrote sentences and paragraphs, thrust them away into the
                        drawers of the long table in her room to mellowshe had got this phrase from
                        Nan,and then dug them out in despair that they seemed so lifeless. She
                        planned no end of books and confidently set down titles for these unborn
                        masterpieces. Nan and Rose marked the change in her. At times she sat with
                        her chin  in her hand staring into vacancy.
                        The two women speculated about this and wondered whether her young soul was
                        not in the throes of a first love affair.
                    Now that fortune smiled upon her father Phil's happiness marked new
                        attitudes, with no cloud to darken the mistyblue horizons of her dreams. She
                        meant to be very good to her father. And as to his marrying Nan, she was
                        giving much time to plots for furthering their romance.
                    "Fred Holton was looking for you the other day. I suppose you have
                        n't seen him."
                    "Yes; he came to Indianapolis and saw me at the hotel. I remember
                        that he was at your party, but I don't recall how you got
                        acquainted with him?"
                    Phil laughed.
                    "Oh, that last night we camped at Turkey Run I wandered off by
                        myself and met him in the funniest fashion, over by the Holton barn. They
                        were having a dance Charlie and Ethel, and Fred was watching the revel from
                        afar, and saw me dancing like an idiot round the cornshocks. And I talked to
                        him across the fence and watched the dance in the barn until you blew the
                        horn. I did n't tell you about it because it seemed so sillyand
                        then I thought you would n't like my striking up acquaintances with
                        those people. But Fred is nice, I think."
                    "He seems to be a very earnest young person. He came to me on a
                        business matter in a spirit that is to his credit."
                    Phil had decided, in view of Nan's unlooked-for arraignment, to give
                        her father another chance to express himself as to her further social
                        relations with the Holtons.
                    "Daddy dear, I want you to tell me honestly whether you have any
                        feeling about those people," she said when they were established at
                        the fireside for the evening. "Of course, you know that
                        one's aunts were responsible for asking them to Amy's
                        party; it was n't Amy's doings; but if you want me to keep
                        clear of them I'll do it. Please tell me the truth just how you
                        feel about it."
                    "Phil," said Kirkwood, meeting her eyes steadily,
                        "those  aunts of yours are silly
                        womenwith vain, foolish, absurd ideals. They did n't consult me
                        about asking the Holtons because I'm a stupid old frump, and it did
                        n't make any difference whether I'd like it or not. But
                        I'm eternally grateful that they did it; and I'm glad that
                        other man came back just as he did. For all those things showed me that the
                        years have blotted out any feeling I had against them. I have n't a
                        bit, Phil. Maybe I ought to have; but however that may be there's
                        no bitterness in my soul. And I'm glad I've discovered
                        that; it's a greater relief to me than I can
                        describe."
                    His smile, the light touch he gave her hands, carried conviction. The
                        discussion seemed to afford him relief.
                    "So far as the Holtons concern me, there's peace between
                        our houses. It's perfectly easy for a man to shoot another who has
                        done him a wrong; but it does n't help any, for," and he
                        smiled the smile that Phil loved in him"for the man being dead
                        can't know how much his enemy enjoys his taking off! Murder, as a
                        fine art, Phil, falls short right there."
                    He had not mentioned her mother; and Phil wondered whether she too shared
                        this amnesty. It was inconceivable that he should have forgiven the man if
                        he still harbored hatred of the woman.
                    With a sudden impulse she rose and caught his face in her hands.
                    "Why don't you marry Nan, daddy?"
                    She saw the color deepen in his cheeks and a startled look came into his
                        eyes.
                    "What madness is this, Phil?" he asked, with an effort at
                        lightness.
                    "It means that I think it would be nicenice for you and Nan and nice
                        for me. I can see her here, sitting right there in that chair that she
                        always sits in when she comes. I think it would be funlots of fun for her to
                        be here all the time, so we would n't always be trailing over
                        there."
                    
                    He laughed; she felt that he was not sorry that she had spoken of Nan.
                    "Are we always trailing over there? I suppose they really are our
                        best friends. But there is Rose, you know. Would n't she look just
                        as much at home in her particular chair as Nan?"
                    "Well, Rose is fine, too, but Rose is different."
                    "Oh, you think there's a difference, do you?"
                    He picked up a book, turned over the leaves idly, and when he spoke again it
                        was not of Nan.
                    "If you want to go to Mrs. Holton's party it's all
                        right, Phil. I suppose most of the young people will be there."
                    "Yes; it's a large party."
                    "Then go and have a good time. And Phil"
                    "Yes, daddy."
                    "Be careful what foolish notions you get into your
                        head."
                    Mrs. William Holton undeniably did things with an air. It may have been an
                        expression of her relief at having disposed of Jack Holton so quickly and
                        effectivelyhe had vanished immediately after his interview with William in
                        the bankthat her sleigh-ride and skating-party as originally planned grew
                        into a function that well-nigh obscured Phil's
                        "coming-out." It began with a buffet luncheon at home,
                        followed by the ride countryward in half a dozen bob-sleds and sleighs of
                        all descriptions. It was limited to the young people, and Phil found that
                        all her friends were included. Ethel and Charles Holton had come over from
                        Indianapolis to assist their aunt in her entertainment.
                    "Mighty nice to find you here!" said Charles to Phil as he
                        stood beside her on the sidewalk waiting for their appointed
                        "bob." "And you may be sure I'm glad to
                        get a day off. I tell you this business life is a grind. It's what
                        General Sherman said war is. I suppose your father told you what a time
                        we've been having straightening out the traction tangle.
                        Scandalmost outrageous lyingbut  that father
                        of yours is a master negotiator. He ought to be in the diplomatic
                        service."
                    He looked at her guardedly with a quick narrowing of the eyes.
                    "Oh, I suppose it was n't really so serious," said
                        Phil indifferently. "Father never brings business home with him and
                        I only know that I don't like having him away so
                        much."
                    "Yes," said Holton, "I don't doubt that
                        you miss him. But Montgomery is getting gay. Over in Indianapolis
                        there's more doing, of course, and bigger parties; but they
                        don't have the good old home flavor. It's these informal
                        gatherings of boys and girls who have known each other all their lives that
                        count."
                    It was the brightest of winter days, with six inches of snow, and cold enough
                        to set young blood tingling. They set off with a merry jingling of bells and
                        drove through town to advertise their gayety before turning countryward. The
                        destination was Turkey Run, that fantastic anomaly of the Hoosier landscape,
                        where Montgomery did much of its picnicking.
                    A scout sent ahead the day before had chosen a stretch of ice where the creek
                        broadened serenely after its bewilderingly tumultuous course through the
                        gorge. There the ice was even and solid and the snow had been scraped away.
                        In the defile, sheltered by its high rocky banks, bonfires were roaring. The
                        party quickly divided itself into twos why is it that parties always effect
                        that subdivision with any sort of opportunity?and the skaters were off.
                    Phil loved skating as she loved all sports that gave free play to her strong
                        young limbs. The hero of the Thanksgiving football game had attached himself
                        to her, but Phil, resenting his airs of proprietorship, deserted him after
                        one turn.
                    As her blood warmed, her spirits rose. The exercise and the keen air sent her
                        pulses bounding. It was among the realizations of her new inner life that
                        physical exercise  stimulated her mental
                        processes. To-day lines, verses, couplets her own or fragments of her
                        readingtumbled madly over each other in her head. No one ranged the ice more
                        swiftly or daringly. She had put aside her coat and donned her sweaternot
                        the old relic of the basketball team, but a new one from her fall outfit,
                        which included also the prettiest of fur toques. The color was bright in her
                        cheeks and the light shone in her eyes as she moved up and down the course
                        with long, even strides or let herself fly at the boundaries, or turned in
                        graceful curves. Skating was almost as much fun as swimming, and even better
                        fun than paddling a canoe.
                    She kept free of companions for nearly an hour, taunting those who tried to
                        intercept her, and racing away from several cavaliers who combined in an
                        effort to corner her. Then having gained the heights of her imaginings, she
                        was ready to be a social being once more.
                    Charles Holton, who had viewed her flights with admiration as he helped the
                        timid and awkward tyros of the company, swung into step with her.
                    "It's wonderful how you do it? Please be kind to me a mere
                        mortal!"
                    He caught her pace and they moved along together at ease. Her mood had
                        changed and she let him talk all he liked and as he liked. They had met
                        twice at parties since she had snubbed him at Amzi's the night of
                        her presentation, and he had made it plain that he admired her. He
                        contrasted advantageously with the young gentlemen of Montgomery. He was
                        less afraid of being polite, or his politeness was less self-conscious and
                        showed a higher polish. He had twice sent her roses and once a new novel,
                        and these remembrances had not been without their effect. It was imaginable
                        that his tolerance of the simple sociabilities of Montgomery was
                        attributable to an interest in Phil, who dreamed a great deal these days;
                        and there was space enough in the ivory tower of her fancy to enshrine
                        lovers innumerable. Charles was a personable young man, impressionable  and emotional, and not without imagination of
                        his own. Her humor, and the healthy common-sense philosophy that flowered
                        from it, were the girl's only protection from her own emotionalism
                        and susceptibility. Even in the larger world of the capital there was no
                        girl as pretty as Phil, Charles assured himself; she was not only agreeable
                        to look at, but she piqued him by her indifference to his advances. His
                        usual cajoleries only provoked retorts that left him blinking, not certain
                        whether they were intended to humble him or to stimulate him to more daring
                        efforts.
                    "You're the only girl in the bunch who skates as though she
                        loved it. You do everything as though it was your last hour on earth and you
                        meant to make the most of it. I like that. It's the way I feel
                        about things myself. If I had your spirit I'd conquer the
                        world."
                    "Well, the world is here to be conquered," said Phil.
                        "What peak have you picked to plant your flag on?"
                    "Oh, I want money firstyou've got to have it these days to
                        do things with; and then I think I'd like power. I'd go in
                        for politicsthe governor's chair or the senate. If father had
                        n't died he could have got the governorship easy; he was entitled
                        to it and it would have come along just in the course of things. What would
                        you like to do best of all?"
                    "If I told you, you would n't believe it. I don't
                        want a thing I have n't gotnot a single thing. On a day like this
                        everything is minethat long piece of woods over there black against the blue
                        skyand the creek underfootI could n't ask for a single other
                        thing!"
                    "But there must be a goal you want to reacheverybody has
                        that."
                    "Oh, you're talking about to-morrow! and this is to-day.
                        And sufficient unto the day is the joy thereof. If I ever told anybody what
                        I mean to do to-morrow, it would be spoiled. I'm full of dark
                        secrets that I never tell any one."
                    "But you might tell meI'm the best possible person to tell
                        secrets to."
                    "I can't be sure of that, when I hardly know you at
                        all."
                    
                    "That's mighty cruel, you know, when I feel as though I had
                        known you always."
                    He tried to throw feeling into this, but the time and place and her vigorous
                        strides over the ice did not encourage sentiment.
                    "You ought n't to tell girls that you feel you have known
                        them always. It is n't complimentary. You ought to express sorrow
                        that they are so difficult to know and play the card that you hope by great
                        humility and perseverance one day to know them. That is the line I should
                        take if I were a man."
                    He laughed at this. There were undoubted fastnesses in her nature that were
                        not easily attainable. She seemed to him amazingly mature in certain ways,
                        and in others she was astonishingly childlike.
                    "They say you're a genius; that you're going to do
                        wonderful things," he said.
                    "Who says it?" asked Phil practically, but not without
                        interest.
                    "Oh, my aunt says it; she says other people say it."
                    "Well, my aunts have n't said it," remarked Phil.
                        "According to them my only genius is for doing the wrong
                        thing."
                    "We need n't any of us expect to be appreciated in our own
                        families. That's always the way. You read a lot, don't
                        you?"
                    "I like to read; but you can read a lot without being a genius.
                        Geniuses don't have to readthey know it all without reading. So
                        there's that."
                    "I'll wager you write, too;confess now that you
                        do!" "Letters to my father when he's away from
                        homeone every night. But he is n't away very much."
                    "But stories and things like that. Yes; don't deny it: you
                        mean to be a writer! I'm sure you can succeed at that. Lots of
                        women do; some of the best writers are women. You will write novels
                        likelikeGeorge Eliot."
                    Phil laughed her derision of the idea.
                    
                    "She knew a lot; more than I could ever know if I studied all my
                        life. But there's only one George Eliot; I'm hardly
                        likelyjust Phil Kirkwood in Montgomery, Indiana,to be number
                        two."
                    The direction of the talk was grateful to her. It was pleasant to feel the
                        warmth of his interest in her new secret aims without having to acknowledge
                        them. It was flattering that he surmised the line of her interests, and
                        spoke of them so kindly and sympathetically.
                    "I try to do some reading all the time," he went on;
                        "but a business man has n't much chance. Still, I usually
                        keep something worth while on the center table, and when I travel I carry
                        some good book with me. I like pictures, too, and music; and those things
                        you miss in a town like Montgomery."
                    "Well, Montgomery is interesting just the same," said Phil
                        defensively. "The people are all so nice and folksy."
                    He hastened to disavow any intention of slurring the town. He should always
                        feel that it was home, no matter how far he might wander. He explained, in
                        the confidence that seemed to be establishing itself between them, that
                        there was a remote possibility that he might return to Montgomery and go
                        into the bank with his uncle, who needed assistance. It was desirable, he
                        explained, to keep the management of the bank in the hands of the
                        family.
                    "You know," he went on, "they printed outrageous
                        stories about all of us in the "Advertiser." They were the
                        meanest sort of lies, but I'd like you to know that we met the
                        issue squarely. I've turned over to your father as trustee all the
                        property they claimed we had come by dishonestly. The world will never know
                        this, for your father shut up the newspapersit was quite wonderful the way
                        he managed it all;and, of course, it does n't make any difference
                        what the world thinks. This was my affair, the honor of my family, and a
                        matter of my own conscience."
                    Her knowledge of the traction muddle was sufficient to afford a background of
                        plausibility for this highminded 
                        renunciation. There was something likable in Charles Holton. His volubility,
                        which had prejudiced her against him in the beginning, seemed now to speak
                        for a frankness that appealed to her. There was no reason for his telling
                        her these things unless he cared for her good opinion; and it was not
                        disagreeable to find that this man, who was ten years her senior and
                        possessed of what struck her as an ample experience of life, should be at
                        pains to entrench himself in her regard.
                    As she made no reply other than to meet his eyes in a look of sympathetic
                        comprehension, he went on:
                    "You won't mind my saying that we were all terribly cut up
                        over Uncle Jack's coming back here; but I guess we've
                        disposed of him. I don't think he's likely to trouble
                        Montgomery very much. Uncle Will had it out with him the day after he showed
                        up so disgracefully at your party; and, of course, Uncle Jack would never
                        have done that if he had been himself. He went to Indianapolis and tried to
                        make a lot of trouble for all of us, but that was where your father showed
                        himself the fine man he is. I guess it is n't easy to put anything
                        over on that father of yours; he's got the brains and character to
                        meet any difficulty squarely."
                    Phil murmured her appreciation. They had paused in the middle of the course
                        and were idly cutting figures, keeping within easy conversational range.
                    "Your initials are hard to do," said Holton, backing into
                        line beside her and indicating the letters his skates had traced on the
                        surface. The "P. K." was neatly done. Phil without comment
                        etched a huge "C" and then cut an "H"
                        within its long loop.
                    "Splendid! You are the best skater I ever saw! I'd like to
                        cut that out and keep it in cold storage as a souvenir."
                    This did not please her so much as his references to her hidden ambitions,
                        and seeing that she failed to respond, and fearing one of her taunts, he led
                        the way toward the gorge. It was four o'clock, and already shadows
                        were darkening the deep vale where most of the skaters had now gathered  about the bonfires. Phil's
                        popularity was attested by the tone in which the company greeted her. She
                        sat down on a log and entered into their give-and-take light-heartedly,
                        while Holton unfastened her skates. He had found her coat and thrown it
                        round her shoulders. He was very thoughtful and attentive, and his interest
                        in her had not gone unremarked.
                    "We were just wondering," said one of the girls,
                        "whether anybody here was sport enough to scale that wall in the
                        winter? We've saved that for you, Phil."
                    Phil lifted her head and scanned the steep slope. She had scaled it often; in
                        fact one of her earliest remembered adventures had been an inglorious tumble
                        into the creek as the reward of her temerity. That was in her sixth year
                        when she had clambered up the cliff a few yards in pursuit of a
                        chipmunk.
                    "I have n't done that for several moons; but I have done
                        it, children. There would n't be any point in doing it, of course,
                        if anybody else had done itI mean to-day, with ice all over the
                        side."
                    "You must n't think of it, Phil," said Mrs.
                        Holton, glancing up anxiously.
                    "I shan't think of it, Mrs. Holton, unless somebody says it
                        can't be done. I'm not going to take a dare."
                    "Just for that," said Charles, "I'm going
                        to do it myself."
                    "Better not tackle it," said one of the college boys,
                        eyeing the cliff critically. "I've done it in summer, and
                        it's hard enough then; but you can see how the ice and snow cover
                        all the footholds. You'd have to do it with ropes the way they
                        climb the Alps."
                    Holton looked at Phil as she sat huddled in her coat. It was in her eyes that
                        she did not think he would attempt it, and he resented her lack of faith in
                        his courage.
                    "I don't think," she remarked, helping herself to
                        a sandwich, "that anybody's going to be cruel enough to
                        make me do it."
                    "If I do it," said Holton, "no one else will ever
                        have to  try it again in winter. It will be
                        like discovering the North Polethere's nothing in it for the second
                        man."
                    "You're not going to try it! Please
                        don't!" cried Mrs. Holton. "If you got hurt it
                        would spoil the party for everybody."
                    "Don't worry, Aunt Nellie. It's as easy as walking
                        home."
                    He was already throwing off his overcoat, measuring the height and choosing a
                        place for his ascent.
                    Amid a chorus of protests and taunts he began climbing rapidly. Phil rose and
                        watched him with sophisticated eyes as he began mounting. She saw at once
                        that he had chosen the least fortunate place in the whole face of the
                        declivity for an ascent. There were two or three faintly scratched paths, by
                        which the adventurous sometimes struggled to the top, and she had herself
                        experimented with all of them; but Holton had essayed the most precipitous
                        and hazardous point for his attempt.
                    At the start he sprang agilely up the limestone which for a distance thrust
                        out rough shelves with ladder-like regularity; and when this failed, he
                        caught at the wild tangle of frozen shrubbery and clutched the saplings that
                        had hopefully taken root wherever patches of earth gave the slightest
                        promise of succor. As his difficulties increased a hush fell upon the
                        spectators.
                    He accomplished half the ascent, and paused to rest, clinging with one hand
                        to a slender maple. He turned and waved his cap, and was greeted with a
                        cheer.
                    "Better let it go at that!" called one of the young men.
                        "Come on back."
                    Charles flung down a contemptuous answer and addressed himself to the more
                        difficult task beyond. Particles of ice and frozen earth detached by his
                        upward scramble clattered down noisily. Withered leaves, shaken free from
                        niches where the winds had gathered them, showered fitfully into the valley.
                        He began drawing himself along by shrubs and young trees that covered a long
                        outward curve in the face of the cliff.  Those
                        below heard the crackle of frozen twigs, and the swish of released boughs
                        that marked his progress. Phil stood watching him with an absorbed interest
                        in which fear became dominant. Better than the others Phil knew the perils
                        of the cliff, the scant footholds offered by even the least formidable
                        points in the rough surface.
                    He was rounding the bulging crag with its sparse vegetation when, as he
                        seemed to have cleared it safely, a sapling that he had grasped for a moment
                        yielded, and he tumbled backward.
                    Those below could see his frantic struggles to check his descent as his body
                        shot downward with lightning-like swiftness. A short clump of bushes caught
                        and held him for an instant, then gave way, and they saw him struggling for
                        another hold. Then a shelf of rock caught him. He lay flat for a moment
                        afraid to move, and those below could not see him. Then he sat up and waved
                        his cap, and shouted that he was safe.
                    The awe-struck crowd hardly knew what Phil was doing until she had crossed
                        the ice and begun to climb. While Charles was still crashing downward, she
                        had run to a favorable point her quick eyes had marked and was climbing up a
                        well-remembered trail. The snow and ice had increased its hazards, and an
                        ominous crackling and snapping of twigs attended her flight.
                    "Come back! Come back!" they called to her. Half a dozen
                        young men plunged after her; but already well advanced, she cried to them
                        not to follow.
                    "Tell him to stay where he is," she called; and was again
                        nimbly creeping upward. There was no way to arrest or help her, and she had
                        clearly set forth with a definite purpose and could not be brought back.
                        Cries of horror marked every sound as her white sweater became the target of
                        anxious eyes.
                    The white sweater paused, hung for tremulous instants, was lost and
                        discernible again. A frozen clod, loosened as she clutched at the projecting
                        roots of a young beech,  ricocheted behind
                        her. Her course, paralleling that taken by Holton, was about ten yards to
                        the left of it. To those below it seemed that her ascent was only doubling
                        the hour's peril. Charles, perched on the rock that had seemingly
                        flung out its arm to save him, was measuring his chances of escape without
                        knowing that Phil was climbing toward him.
                    As she drew nearer he heard the sounds of her ascent, and peering over saw
                        the sweater dangling like a white ball from the cliff-side.
                    "Go down, Phil! You can't make it; nobody can do it! Tell
                        the boys to get a rope," he shouted. "Please go
                        back!"
                    Already messengers had run for assistance, but the little caon in its
                        pocket-like isolation was so shut in that it was a mile to the nearest
                        house.
                    Along the tiny thread of a trail, transformed by sleet and snow until it was
                        scarcely recognizable, Phil pressed on steadily. Charles, seeing that she
                        would not go back, ceased his entreaties, fearing to confuse or alarm her.
                        Her hands caught strong boughs with certainty; the tiny twigs slapped her
                        face spitefully. Here and there she flung herself flat against the rocky
                        surface and crept guardedly; then she was up dancing from one vantage-point
                        to another, until finally she paused, clinging to a sapling slightly above
                        Holton. When she had got her breath she called an "All
                        right!" that echoed and re$eUchoed through the valley.
                    "You thought you could do it, did n't you?" she
                        said mockingly; "and now I've had to spoil my clothes to
                        get you off that shelf."
                    "For God's sake, stay where you are! There's
                        nothing you can do for me. The boys have gone round to bring a rope, and
                        until they come you must stay right there!"
                    Phil, still panting, laughed derisively.
                    "You're perfectly ridiculouspinned to a rock like
                        PrometheusSimeon on his pillar! But it would n't be dignified for
                        you to let the boys haul you up by a rope. You'd never live that
                        down. They'll be years getting a 
                        rope; and it would be far from comfortable to sit there all
                        night."
                    While she chaffed she was measuring distances and calculating chances. The
                        shelf which had caught him was the broader part of a long edge of outcrop.
                        Phil beat among the bushes to determine how much was exposed, but the ledge
                        was too narrow for a foothold.
                    "Please stop there and don't move!" Holton
                        pleaded. "If you break your neck, I'd never forgive
                        myself, and I'd never be forgiven."
                    Phil laughed her scorn of his fears and began creeping upward again. The
                        situation appealed to her both by reason of its danger and its humor; there
                        was nothing funnier than the idea of Charlie Holton immured on a rock,
                        waiting to be hauled up from the top of the cliff. She meant to extricate
                        him from his difficulties: she had set herself the task; it was like a dare.
                        Her quick eyes searching the rough slope noted a tree between her and the
                        shelf where Holton clung, watching her and continuing his entreaties not to
                        heed him, but to look out for her own safety. Its roots were well planted in
                        an earthy cleft and its substantial air inspired confidence. It had been off
                        the line of his precipitous descent and he had already tried to reach it;
                        but in the cautious tiptoeing to which his efforts were limited by the
                        slight margin of safety afforded by the rock he could not touch it.
                    "If I swing down from that tree and reach as far as I can, you ought
                        to be able to catch my hand; and if you can I'll pull, and you can
                        make your feet walk pitty-pat up the side."
                    Her face, aglow from the climb, hung just above him. She had thrown off her
                        hat when she began the ascent and her hair was in disorder. Her eyes were
                        bright with excitement and fun. It was immensely to her likingthis
                        situation: her blood sang with the joy of it. She addressed him with mocking
                        composure.
                    "It's so easy it is n't right to take the
                        money."
                    He protested that it was a foolish risk when he would  certainly be rescued in a short time. She, too, must remain
                        where she was until the ropes were brought.
                    "They never do that way in books," said Phil. "If
                        I'd taken that tumble, some man would have rescued me; and now that
                        you're there, it's only fair that I should pull you off.
                        If I had n't as good as told you you could n't, you would
                        n't be there. That's the simple philosophy of that. All
                        ready! Here goes!"
                    Clinging to the tree with her knees to get a better grip she swung herself
                        down as far as possible. The sapling bent, but held stoutly. Holton ceased
                        protesting, held up his arms to catch her if she fell; then as she repeated
                        her "ready," he tiptoed, but barely touched her
                        finger-tips. She drew back slowly to gather strength for another effort. It
                        was the most foolhardy of undertakings. Only the tree, with its questionable
                        hold upon the cliff-side, held her above the gorge. She strained her arms to
                        the utmost; their fingertips touched and she clasped his hand. There was a
                        tense moment; then her aid making it possible, he dug his feet into the
                        little crevices of the rocky surface and began creeping up.
                    Once begun there was no letting go. The maple under their combined weight
                        curved like a bow. Phil set her teeth hard; her arms strained until it
                        seemed they would break. Then, as Holton began to aid himself with his free
                        hand, his weight diminished, and in one of these seconds of relief, Phil
                        braced herself for a supreme effort and drew him toward her until he
                        clutched the tree. He dragged himself up, and flung himself down beside her.
                        Neither spoke for several minutes. Those of the party who remained below
                        were now calling wildly to know what had happened.
                    "Trumpet the tidings that we are safe," said Phil when she
                        had got her breath.
                    "That was awful; horrible! What did you do it for? It was so
                        absurdso unnecessary!" he cried, relief and anger mingling in his
                        tone. "The horror of itI'll never get over it as long as I
                        live."
                    "Forget it," said Phil. "It was just a lark. But
                        now that  it's over, I'll
                        confess that I thought for about half a second just before you began edging
                        up a littlethat I'd have to let go. But don't you ever
                        tell anybody I said so; that's marked confidential."
                    The note was obviously forced. Her heart still pounded hard and weariness was
                        written plainly in her face. Now that the stress of the half-hour had
                        passed, she was not without regret for what she had done. Her father would
                        not be pleased; her uncle would rebuke her sharply; her aunts would shudder
                        as much at the publicity her wild adventure was sure to bring her as at the
                        hazard itself. She was conscious of the admiration in Holton's
                        eyes; conscious, indeed, of something more than that.
                    "I want to know that you did that for me: I must think so!"
                        he said hoarsely.
                    His lips trembled and his hands shook. Her foolhardiness had placed both
                        their lives in jeopardy. It pleased him to think that she had saved his
                        lifewhereas in strictest truth she had only added to his peril.
                    "I did n't do it for you: I did it for fun," she
                        replied shortly; and yet deep down in her heart she did not dislike his
                        words or the intense manner in which he spoke them. Her dallyings with boys
                        of her own age, with only now and then a discreet flirtation with one of the
                        college seniors, comprised her personal experiences of romance.
                    "You are beautifulwonderful! Yours is the bravest soul in the world.
                        I loved you the day I first saw you in your father's office.
                        Phil"
                    For a moment his hand lay upon hers that was trembling still from its grip of
                        the tree.
                    "We must climb to the top; the joke will be spoiled if we let them
                        help us," she cried, springing to her feet. "Come! The way
                        will be easier along the old path."
                    Across the vale some one hallooed to them. Her white sweater was clearly
                        printed against the cliff and a man on the edge of the farther side stood
                        with the light of the declining sun playing round him. The ravine narrowed
                             here and the distance across was not more
                        than a hundred yards.
                    Phil fluttered her handkerchief.
                    "It's Fred!" she said. "See! There by the
                        big sycamore." Fred waved his cap, then dropped his arm to his side
                        and stood, a sentinel-like figure, at the edge of his acres, etched in
                        heroic outline against the winter sky. His trousers were thrust into his
                        boots; the collar of the mackinaw coat he wore at his work was turned up
                        about his throat. He leaned upon an axe with which he had been cutting the
                        coarser brush in the fence corners. The wind ruffled his hair as he stood
                        thus, in the fading light. He had been busy all afternoon and quite
                        unmindful of his aunt's party, to which, for reasons sufficient to
                        that lady, he had not been bidden.
                    A sense of his rugged simplicity and manliness seemed to be borne to Phil
                        across the ravine. Something in Fred Holton touched her with a kind of
                        pathosthere was in him something of her father's patience, and
                        something of his capacity for suffering. As she looked he swung the axe upon
                        his shoulders and struck off homeward across the fields.
                    Charles sprang ahead of her and began the remainder of the ascent. It was he
                        who was now impatient.
                    "We must hurry unless you want the crowd to carry us
                        up."
                    "Let me go ahead," she answered, ignoring the hand he
                        reached down to her, and eager to finish the undertaking.
                        "There's nothing hard about the rest of it and I know
                        every inch of the path."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XV
                    LOIS
                    A LADY stepped from the westbound train at Montgomery just
                        at nightfall on the day before Christmas. The porter of the parlor car
                        pulled down more luggage than travellers usually bring to Montgomery, and
                        its surfaces were plastered with steamship and hotel labels. Amzi
                        Montgomery, who had been lurking in the shadow of the baggage-room for some
                        time, advanced and shook hands hurriedly.
                    "Well, Lois!"
                    "Well, Amzi!"
                    In the electric-lighted shed the lady might have been seen to smile at the
                        brevity and colorlessness of this exchange, or possibly at the haste with
                        which Amzi was crossing the platform to the hack-stand.
                    "Here are my checks, please, Amzi. Don't be discouraged
                        there are only six of them!" she said cheerfully; her remarks being
                        punctuated by the thump of her trunks as they were tumbled out of the
                        baggage-car. She stood glancing about with careless interest while Amzi
                        shouted for the transfer man. She trailed her umbrella composedly as she
                        idled about the platform, refreshing herself with deep inhalations of the
                        crisp December air, while Amzi ordered the trunks delivered to his own
                        house.
                    Her brother's perturbation was in no wise reflected in Mrs.
                        Holton's manner. To all appearances she was at peace with the
                        world, and evidently the world had treated her kindly. Her handsome sables
                        spoke for prosperity, her hat for excellent taste; she was neatly gloved and
                        booted. She gave an impression of smoothness and finish. In her right hand
                        she carried a tiny purse, which she loosened carelessly  from time to time, letting it swing by its chain, and catching
                        it again with a graceful gesture.
                    "The town may have changed," she remarked, when Amzi came
                        back and put her into the dingy carriage, "but the hacks have
                        n't. I recall the faint bouquet of old times. That must be the
                        court-house clock," she continued, peeping from the window.
                        "They were building the new courthouse about the time I left. I
                        miss something; it must be the old familiar jiggle of the streets. Asphalt?
                        Really! I suppose the good citizens have screamed and protested at the
                        improvements, as good citizens always do. It's stuffy in here. If
                        you don't mind, Amzi, we'll have some air."
                    She gave the strap a jerk and the window dropped with a bang.
                    "How's your asthma these days? You never speak of yourself
                        in your letters, and when I saw you in Chicago I did n't like your
                        wheeze."
                    "Thunder! I have n't got the asthma. I'm as fit as
                        a fiddle. Doctors tell me to watch my blood pressure and cut off my toddies.
                        Remember? I used to like 'em pretty well."
                    "Verily you did!"and she laughed merrily. "You
                        used to mix a toddy about once a month as near as I can remember. Frightful
                        dissipation! Unless you've changed mightily, you're a
                        model, Amzi; a figure to point young men and maidens to. Whee!" she
                        exclaimed as the hack rattled across the interurban track in Main Street,
                        "behold the lights! Not so different from Paris after all. What did
                        I see there Hastings's Theater? Did n't that use to be the
                        Grand Opera House? What a fall, my countrymen! That must be where our
                        illustrious brother-in-law holds forth in royal splendor. What's
                        his first name, Amzi?"
                    "Lawrince," he replied, and she saw him grin broadly as the
                        light from an overhead lamp shone upon them. "That's what
                        Phil calls him."
                    "Phil's at home, of course?"
                    This was her first reference to Phil, and she had spoken  of her daughter carelessly, casually. Amzi shuffled his feet
                        on the hack floor.
                    "I guess Phil's back; she's been in Indianapolis.
                        Phil's all right. There's nothing the matter with
                        Phil."
                    He was so used to declaring Phil's all-rightness to his other
                        sisters that the defensive attitude was second nature. His tone was not lost
                        upon Lois and she replied quickly:
                    "Of course, Phil's all right; I just wondered whether she
                        were at home."
                    "She's with Tom," Amzi added; and as the hack had
                        reached his house he clambered out and bade the driver carry in the
                        bags.
                    She paused midway of the walk that led in from the street and surveyed the
                        near landscape. This had been her father's house, and there within
                        a stone's throw stood the cottage in which she had begun her
                        married life. The street lights outlined it dimly, and her gaze passed on to
                        the other houses upon the Montgomery acres, in which her sisters lived.
                        These had not been there when she left, and the change they effected
                        interested her, though, it seemed, not deeply.
                    The door was opened by a white-jacketed Negro.
                    "This is my sister, Mrs. Holton, Jerry. You can take her things
                        right up to the front room."
                    "Yes, sah. Good-evenin', ma'am;
                        good-evenin'. Mighty fine weather we're havin';
                        yes, ma'am, it shore is cole."
                    He helped her deftly, grinning with the joy of his hospitable race in
                        "company," and pleased with the richness of the coat he
                        was hanging carefully on the old rack in the hall.
                    "Tell Sarah we'll have supper right away. Want to go to
                        your room now, Lois?"
                    "Thanks, no; I'm hungry and the thought of food interests
                        me. You don't dress for dinner, do you, Amzi?"
                    "Thunder, no! I'll put on my slippers and change my collar.
                        Back in a minute."
                    As he climbed the stairs she gave herself an instant's inspection in
                        the oblong gilt-framed mirror over the drawing-room mantel, touching her
                        hair lightly with her fingers,  and then moved
                        through the rooms humming softly. When Amzi came down she met him in the
                        hall.
                    "Well, old fellow, it's wonderful how you don't
                        change! You're no fatter than you were twenty years ago, but your
                        hair has gone back on you scandalously. Kiss me!"
                    She put her arm round his neck and when the kiss had been administered,
                        patted his cheeks with her small delicate hands. Supper was announced
                        immediately and she put her arm through his as they walked to the
                        dining-room.
                    "It's a dear old house, just as it always was; and
                        it's like your sentimental old soul to hang on to it. Sentiment
                        counts, after all, Amzi. Too bad you had to be a banker, when I distinctly
                        remember how you used to drive us all crazy with your flute; and you did
                        spout Byronyou know you did! You ought to travel; there's nothing
                        like ita sentimental pilgrimage would brighten you up. If I could
                        n't move around I'd die. But I always was a restless
                        animal. Dear me! If this is n't the same old dinner service father
                        bought when we were youngsters. It's wonderful that you've
                        kept it; but I don't miss a thing. You've even hung on to
                        the old double-barreled pickle thing and the revolving castor."
                    She tasted her soup with satisfaction.
                    "I can see that you are not averse to the fleshpots. I dare say your
                        bachelor establishment is a model. Don't the neighbors try to break
                        in and steal the help? As I remember Fanny she always took the easiest way
                        round. Which is Kate's house, the one beyond the next, or the
                        third?"
                    "The second; she came next. There's nothing in between your
                        old house and Kate's place."
                    Amzi met his sister's eyes with a scrutiny that expressed mild
                        surprise that she should thus make necessary a reference to her former
                        domicile, and with somewhat less interest than she had taken in the
                        ancestral china. To Amzi her return was a fact of importance, and since
                        receiving her telegram from New York announcing her visit to Montgomery he
                        had been in the air as to its meaning. Jack 
                        Holton's appearance only a few weeks earlier still agitated the
                        gossips. He assumed that Lois knew nothing of this, as, indeed, she did not;
                        but there was nothing in his knowledge of his sister to encourage the belief
                        that she would have cared if she had known. His old love for her warmed his
                        heart as he watched her across the table. In the one interview he had had
                        with her after her flight,an hour's talk in Chicago,he had not so
                        fully realized as now, in this domestic setting, how gracefully she bore her
                        years and her griefs! It was this that puzzled him. Sorrow was not written
                        in her still youthful face, nor was it published in her fine brown eyes.
                        They were singularly lovely eyes retaining something of their girlish
                        roguishness. His masculine eye saw no hint of gray in her brown hair. She
                        was astonishingly young, not only in appearance but in manner, and her
                        vivacityher quick smile, her agreeable murmurous laughterdeepened his sense
                        of her charm. She had not only been his favorite sister in old times; but
                        through all these years he had carried her in his heart. And though his
                        restraint yielded before her good humor he was appalled by the situationsno
                        end of them! created by her return.
                    Not a soul knew of her coming. As he reflected that his sisters were even
                        then dining tranquilly in their several domiciles, quite oblivious of the
                        erring Lois's proximity, he inwardly chuckled. They had for years
                        been "poorLoising" Lois, and Jack Holton's
                        re-appearance had strengthened their belief that she was in straitened
                        circumstances, a pensioner on Amzi; and they deplored any drain upon
                        resources to which they believed themselves or their children after them
                        justly entitled. They would be outraged to learn that the prodigal had
                        re$eUntered by the front door of her father's house, followed by a
                        wagonload of trunks, presumably filled with fine raiment.
                    Amzi did not know what had brought her back, nor did he care, now that he saw
                        her across his table, enjoying tearlessly her fricassee chicken, and sipping
                        the claret he  always produced for a guest.
                        The penitential husks which her sisters would have thought proper in the
                        circumstances were not for Lois. He could not imagine her, no matter how
                        grievously she might sin, as meekly repenting in sackcloth and ashes. He
                        wondered just what she meant to do now that she had come back; he wondered
                        what her sisters and the rest of Montgomery would do! The situation
                        interested him impersonally. It sufficed for the moment that she was there,
                        handsome, cheerful, amusing, for he had been seriously troubled about her of
                        late. He was aware that a lone woman, with her history, and blessed or
                        cursed with her undeniable charm, is beset by perils, and it was a comfort
                        to see her under his roof, with no visible traces of the rust of time.
                    She smiled into his eyes and lifted her glass.
                    "To the old house, Amzi!"
                    He saw her lips quiver and her eyes fill. There was sincere feeling in her
                        voice, but the shadow upon her spirit was a fleeting one.
                    "I'm going to run up and change my shoes," she
                        said as they left the table, and in a few moments he heard the click of her
                        heels as she came down.
                    "This is much cozier," she remarked, resting her smart
                        pumps on the fender beside his worn leathern slippers. "Now tell me
                        about the girls; how do they get on?"
                    He sketched for her briefly the recent history of the family, replying to her
                        constant interruptions with the frankness she demanded. Waterman she
                        remembered; she had never seen Fosdick or Hastings. Amzi's
                        description of Hastings amused her, and she laughed gayly at her
                        brother's account of the former actor's efforts to lift
                        the local dramatic standard.
                    "So that's what Kate did, is it? Well, I suppose she has
                        had some fun spending her money on him. Alec Waterman was always an absurd
                        person, but from what you say I judge Josie has held on to her money better
                        than the others. Alec never had sense enough to be a big
                        spender."
                    
                    "Thunder!" Amzi ejaculated. "Josie's
                        broke like the rest of 'em. Alec has a weakness for gold mines.
                        That's cost a heap, and he does n't earn enough practicing
                        law to pay for the ice in Josie's ice-box. Fosdick lives up in the
                        airaway up, clean out of sight. I figure that as a floorwalker in a
                        department store Hastings would be worth about twelve dollars a week; and
                        Fosdick might succeed as barker for a five-legged calf in a side-show; but
                        Alec's place in the divine economy is something I have never
                        placed, and I defy any man to place it!"
                    Amzi was enjoying himself. It was with real zest that he hit off his
                        brothers-in-law to this sister, who afforded him an outlet for long-stifled
                        emotions. He had been honestly loyal to the three homekeeping sisters and to
                        their husbands also for that matter; and the fact that he could at last let
                        himself go deepened his sense of the sympathy and the understanding that had
                        always existed between him and Lois. He hated fuss; and his other sisters
                        were tiresomely fussy and maddeningly disingenuous. In half an hour Lois had
                        learned all she cared to know of the family history. She merely dipped into
                        the bin, brought up a handful of wheat, blew away the chaff, eyed the
                        remaining kernels with a sophisticated eye, and tossed them over her
                        shoulder.
                    "As near as I can make out they're all broke; is that about
                        it?"
                    "Just about," Amzi replied. "They have
                        n't mortgaged their homes yet, but if Mrs. Bill Holton turns up
                        with a new automobile next spring or gets some specially dazzling rags, I
                        expect to see three nice fresh mortgages on those homes out
                        there."
                    "Ah! Mrs. William sets the pace, does she? It's a good
                        thing father died before he saw the Montgomerys trying to keep up with the
                        Holtons. William prospers?"
                    "Judged by Mrs. Bill's doings he does. By the way, Jack has
                        been back here."
                    Amzi turned to see what effect the mention of Jack Holton would have upon
                        her; but in no wise embarrassed,  with only a
                        slight lifting of the brows, she said quickly:
                    "I thought it likely. I suppose William ran to meet him general
                        love-feast and all that?"
                    They were approaching delicate ground; but it seemed as well to go on and be
                        done with it. He told her, more fully than he had recounted any other
                        incident of the sixteen years, of Phil's party; of the insistence
                        of her sisters upon a reconciliation with the William Holtons, and of
                        Jack's appearance on the threshold. His indignation waxed hot; the
                        enormity of the offense was intensified by the fact that he was describing
                        it to Lois; it seemed even more flagrantly directed against her, now that he
                        thought of it, than to Phil or Phil's father. He rose and stood
                        with his back to the fire as he dilated upon it. Lois frowned once or twice,
                        but at the end she laughed, her light little laugh, saying:
                    "And William has got rid of him, of course."
                    "Oh, they had it out the next day at the bank, but Jack's
                        not far away. He's been in Indianapolis making trouble. He resented
                        being kicked out of the bankwhich is about what it came to. And Bill bounced
                        him with reason. He's in trouble. In spite of automobiles and the
                        fine front they put up generally, Bill and the First National are not so
                        allfired prosperous. Tom's been trying to fix things up for
                        them."
                    "Tom Kirkwood?" She frowned again at the mention of her
                        first husband, but appeared interested, listening attentively as he
                        described the Sycamore Traction difficulties.
                    "Samuel always was a bad case. So it's come to this, that
                        Tom is trying to keep William out of jail? It's rather a pretty
                        situation, as you think of it," she murmured. "Just how
                        does Tom get on?"
                    "Tom did n't get on at all for a long time; but whenever he
                        was pushed into a case he burnt himself up on it. Tom was always that kind
                        of a fellowif the drums beat hard enough he would put on his war paint and
                        go out and win  the fight. There's a
                        dreamy streak in Tom; I guess he never boiled out all the college professor
                        he had in him; but he's to the front now. They think a lot of him
                        over at Indianapolis; he's had a chance to go into one of the best
                        law firms there. He's got brains in his headand if"
                    His jaws shut with a snap, as he remembered that his auditor was a woman who
                        had weighed Tom Kirkwood in the balance and found him wanting. Lois noted
                        his abrupt silence. She had clasped her knees and bent forward, staring
                        musingly into the fire, as he began speaking of Kirkwood. Amzi's
                        cheeks filled with the breath that had nearly voiced that
                        "if."
                    "If he had n't married a woman who did n't
                        appreciate him and who wrecked his life for him, there's no telling
                        what he might have done."
                    She finished his sentence dispassionately, and sat back in her chair; and as
                        he blinked in his fear of wounding her by anything he might say, she took
                        matters in her own hands.
                    "I was a fool, Amzi. There you have it all tied up in a package and
                        labeled in red ink; and we need n't ever speak of it again.
                        It's on the shelfthe top one, behind the door, as far as
                        I'm concerned. I have n't come back to cry over spilt
                        milk, like a naughty dairymaid who trips and falls on the cellar steps. I
                        ought to; I ought to put on mourning for myself and crawl into Center Church
                        on my knees and ask the Lord's forgiveness before the whole
                        congregation. But I'm not going to do anything of the kind. One
                        reason is that it would n't do me any good; and the other is that
                        I'd never get out of the church alive. They'd tear me to
                        pieces! It's this way, Amzi, that if we were all made in the same
                        mould you could work out a philosophy from experience that would apply to
                        everybody; but the trouble is that we're all different.
                        I'm different; it was because I was different that I shook Tom and
                        went off with Jack. Of course, the other man is a worthless cur and loafer;
                        that's where fate flew up and struck at mea deserved blow. But when
                        I saw that I had made a bad break, I did n't sit down and sob; I
                        merely  tried to put a little starch into my
                        self-respect and keep from going clear downhill. Tom's probably
                        forgotten me by this time; he never was much of a hater and I guess
                        that's what made me get tired of him. He always had the other cheek
                        ready, and when I annoyed him he used to take refuge in the Greek poets, who
                        did n't mean anything to me."
                    She smiled as though the recollection of the Greek poets amused her and ran
                        on in her low, musical voice:
                    "When I saw I'd drawn a blank in Jack Holton, it really did
                        n't bother me so much as you might think. Of course, I was worried
                        and humiliated at times; and there were days when I went into the telegraph
                        office and went through the motions of sending for you to come and fish me
                        out of my troubles. I tore up half a dozen of those messages, so you never
                        heard me squeal; and then I began playing my own game in my own way. I hung
                        a smile on the door, so to speak, and did my suffering inside. For ten years
                        Jack never knew anything about methe real me. For a long time I could
                        n't quite come to the point of shaking him, and he could
                        n't shake me,he could n't without starving"; and
                        she smiled the ghost of a grim little smile. "I suppose I was
                        n't exactly in a position to insist on a husband's
                        fidelity, but when he began to be a filthy nuisance I got rid of him. Just
                        before I went abroad this last time I divorced him, and gave him enough to
                        keep him running for a while. My story in a nutshell is this," and
                        she touched her fingers lightly as she epitomized her personal history:
                        "married at eighteen, to a gentleman; a mother at twenty; at
                        twentythree, ran off with a blackguard; married him in due course to satisfy
                        the convenances. Not forty yet and divorced twice! And
                        here I am, tolerably cheerful and not so much the worse for
                        wear."
                    She waited for him to say something; but there appeared to be little for Amzi
                        to say.
                    "I guess we all do the best we can, Lois. You don't have to
                        talk to me about those things. I'm glad you're back;
                        that's all."
                    
                    He showed his embarrassment, shifting from one foot to the other, and rubbing
                        his hand nervously across his head.
                    "Amzi, you're the best man in the world, and I did
                        n't come back here to be a nuisance to you. I can sleep here and
                        run off on the early trainI looked it up before I came. But I thought
                        I'd like to see the houseand you in it once more. It's a
                        big world, and there are plenty of places to go. There's a lot of
                        Europe I have n't seen yet, and I like it over there. I have some
                        good friends in Dresden, and I promised them to come back. So don't
                        feel that I'm on your hands. I'm not! I can clear out in
                        the morning and nobody need know that I've been here."
                    He walked up to her and laid his hands on her shoulders. He gasped at her
                        suggestion of immediate flight. He had not known how much she meant to him;
                        and oh, she was so like Phil! It was Phil who had danced in his mind while
                        she summarized her life; it was the Phil she did not know had never knownand
                        for whom, astonishingly, she had not asked beyond her casual inquiry as to
                        the girl's whereabouts. Nothing was clear in his mind save that
                        Lois must see and know Phil.
                    "I want you to stay, Lois; you've got to stay. And
                        everything's going to be all right."
                    "Please be square with me, Amzi. This is a small town and a woman
                        can't coolly break all the commandments and then come back and
                        expect to be met with a brass band. You and I understand each other; but
                        you've got to think of the rest of the family; my coming will
                        doubtless outrage our sisters' delicate moral naturesI know that
                        and there's Tomit's hardly fair to him to come trailing
                        back. And the town's too small for me to hide in it was always a
                        gossipy hole."
                    He clasped her wrists tightly. The working of his face showed his deep
                        feeling. Not often in his life had he been so touched, so moved. Two big
                        tears rolled down his ruddy cheeks.
                    
                    "You've got to stay because of Phil! I tell you
                        there's nobody to think about but Phil!"
                    Suddenly she threw her arms about his neck and burst into tears.
                    "Oh, I could n't speak of her! You don't
                        understand that it's because of Phil I ought to go! You thought I
                        was heartless about it, but it's not that I don't care.
                        I'm afraid to see Phil! I'm afraid!"
                    "Don't you worry about Phil," he answered, digging
                        the tears out of his eyes with his knuckles. "Phil's all
                        right," he concluded.
                    He crossed the hall and when he returned, carrying a bulky photograph album,
                        she had regained her composure, and stood holding her hands to the fire.
                    "Sit here and look at Phil: I've got all her pictures from
                        the time she was a baby. I guess you remember these first
                        ones."
                    She sat down by the center table and he turned up the gas in the blue-shaded
                        lamp. She passed the baby pictures quickly, but looked closely at those that
                        showed her daughter at school age. Under each photograph Amzi had written
                        the date, so that as a record the collection was complete. There were half a
                        dozen disclosures of Phil in her M. H. S. sweater. Amzi called attention to
                        these with a chuckle.
                    "Nearly killed the girls; Phil chasing round town in that thing! And
                        here she's trigged out in her graduating clothes. I guess
                        you'd have been proud of her that night. Her piece was about tramp
                        dogs; funniest thing you ever heard! And here she islet me seeyes, that was
                        last summer. Those other things are just little snapshots; and
                        here's a group showing Phil with her class. Phil in frontshe was
                        the head of her class all right!" he ended proudly.
                    Whatever emotions may have been aroused by this pictorial review of her
                        child's life, Lois outwardly made no sign. She murmured her
                        pleasure at one and another of the pictures, looked closely at the latest in
                        point of time, sighed and closed the book.
                    
                    "She looks like me, I suppose. Is she taller?"
                    "The least bit, maybe; but you're as like as two
                        peas," answered Amzi; and then added, with the diffidence of a man
                        unused to graceful speeches, "I guess you'd almost pass
                        for sisters. By George, Lois, you're a wonder! You ain't a
                        year older!"
                    "That's no compliment, Amzi! I ought to have
                        changed," she replied soberly. "But there's gray
                        in my hair if you know where to look, and the wrinkles are getting
                        busy."
                    "The more I think of it, the more remarkable the resemblance
                        gets," he persisted, ignoring her confessions.
                    "That does n't make it any easier, Amzi; please
                        don't speak of that again."
                    She tossed the book on the table, as though dismissing a disagreeable
                        subject.
                    "Well," she said, "about going?"
                    "You're not going," he replied with decision.
                        "I won't let you go. I don't know how
                        we're going to work it all out, but it won't be so bad.
                        The girls have got to take it."
                    She caught a gleam of humor in his eye. The displeasure of his other sisters
                        at her return clearly had no terrors for him. It may have been that she
                        herself shared his pleasure in the thought of their discomfiture. She
                        crossed the hall, wandering aimlessly about, while he waited and wondered.
                        When she returned she said with the brisk manner of one given to quick
                        decisions:
                    "I'm going to stay, Amzi. But let us understand now that if
                        I'm a trouble to you, or the rest of them make you uncomfortable,
                        I'll clear out and go to the hotel, or set up a house of my own. So
                        don't be silly about it. I'm a practical person and can
                        take care of myself. I'm not on your hands, you know, financially
                        speaking or any other way."
                    "Thunder! No!"
                    This was the first time she had touched upon money matters. While she turned
                        the leaves of the album, the clumsy baggage-men had pounded laboriously up
                        the back stairs with her trunks, emphasizing the prosperity of which  her visible apparel spoke. He was not without
                        an acute curiosity as to the state of her fortunes. Lois had always been a
                        luxurious person, but she was, unaccountably, the only one of his sisters
                        who had never asked him for money. He had made what they called
                        "advances" to all of them and these had increased as their
                        fortunes dwindled. There was something bafflingly mysterious here. It was a
                        fair assumption that Jack Holton had spent Lois's money long ago,
                        and the fact that she had floated home with her flags flying and had just
                        announced her ability to set up an establishment for herself was disquieting
                        rather than reassuring. He was ashamed of his fears, but it was against
                        reason that she should have escaped the clutches of a worthless blackguard
                        like Jack Holton with any of her patrimony.
                    Now that she had announced her determination to remain her spirits rose
                        buoyantly. The thought of meeting Phil had shaken her; and yet that had been
                        but a moment's fleeting shadow, as from a stray cloud wandering
                        across a summer sky. When she referred to Phil again, it was with a
                        detachment at which he marveled. If he had not loved her so deeply and if
                        his happiness at her return had been less complete, he should have thought
                        her heartless. She had called herself "different"; and she
                        was, indeed, different in ways that defied his poor powers of analysis. She
                        was a mystifying creature. Her assurance, her indifference toward the world
                        in general, the cool fashion in which she had touched off on her pretty
                        fingers the chief incidents of her life did not stagger him so much as they
                        fascinated him. She was of his own blood, and yet it was almost another
                        language that she spoke.
                    She had brought down a box of bon-bons which she now remembered and urged him
                        to try, moving fitfully about the room and poking at the box from time to
                        time absently, while he volunteered information touching old friends. Her
                        interest in local history was apparently the slightest: he might have been
                        talking of the Gauls in the time of Caesar for all the interest she
                        manifested in her contemporaries and  their
                        fortunes. He finally mentioned with dogged daring the Bartletts whom she had
                        known well; they had been exceedingly kind to Phil, he said. Her manner was
                        so provokingly indifferent that he was at the point of bringing Kirkwood
                        into the picture in a last effort to shatter her unconcern. She bit a
                        bon-bon in two, made a grimace of dissatisfaction, and tossed the remaining
                        half into the fire.
                    "Oh, the Bartlett girls! Let me see, which was the musical oneRose
                        or Nan?"
                    "Rose. Nan's literary. They're fine women, and
                        they've been a mighty big help to Phil," he persisted.
                    "Very nice of them, I'm sure," she said,
                        yawning.
                    The yawn reminded her that she was sleepy, and without prelude she kissed
                        him, asked the breakfast hour, and went up to bed.
                    He followed to make sure that she had what she needed, surveyed the trunks
                        that loomed in the hall like a mountain range, and went below to commune
                        with the fire.
                    As he reviewed the situation, to the accompaniment of her quick, light patter
                        on the guest-room floor, he was unable to key himself to a note of tragedy.
                        The comedy of life had never been wasted on him, and it was, after all, a
                        stupendous joke that Lois should have come back almost as tranquilly as
                        though she had been away for a week's visit. The longer he brooded
                        the more it tickled him. She either was incapable of comprehending the
                        problems involved in her return or meant to face them with the jauntiness
                        which her troubled years had increased rather than diminished.
                    Life with her, he mused, was not a permanent book of record, but a flimsy memorandum, from which she tore the leaves when
                        they displeased her and crumpled them into the wastebasket of oblivion. It
                        was a new idea; but it had, he reflected, its merits. He went to the front
                        door, as was his habit, to survey the heavens before retiring. The winter
                        stars shone gloriously, and the night was still. The town clock boomed
                        twelve, ushering in Christmas. He walked  a
                        little way down the path as he counted the strokes, glanced up at
                        Lois's window, then across the hedges to the homes of the other
                        daughters of the house of Montgomery, chuckled, said
                        "Thunder!" so loudly that his own voice startled him, and
                        went hurriedly in and bolted the door.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVI
                    MERRY CHRISTMAS
                    ON every Christmas morning it was the custom of
                        Amzi's sisters to repair with their several families to his house,
                        carrying their gifts and bearing thence such presents as he might bestow.
                        The Fosdicks and the Watermans had children, and these were encouraged to
                        display themselves frequently at their uncle's. And Amzi was kind
                        and generous in his relations with all of them. Amzi Waterman and Amzi
                        Fosdick, still in short trousers, had been impressed at their respective
                        homes with the importance of ingratiating themselves with Uncle Amzi, and
                        Amzi, fully cognizant of this, was an ideal uncle to each impartially. Mrs.
                        Fosdick hoped that her little Susan would be as thoroughly established in
                        Amzi's regard as Phil; there was always Phil, that unbridled,
                        unbroken, fearless young mustang of a Phil.
                    Amzi was down early giving the final revision to his list of presents. Having
                        found in years gone by that it was decidedly unsafe to buy gifts for his
                        sisters, as they were never satisfied with his selections and poorly
                        concealed their displeasure, he had latterly adopted the policy of giving
                        each of them one hundred dollars in gold.
                    Ten was the usual hour for the family gathering, and as the clock struck,
                        Amzi began wandering through the house restlessly. Occasionally he grinned,
                        and said "Thunder!" quietly to himself. In the night
                        watches he had pondered the advisability of warning Lois's sisters
                        of her return; but he saw nothing to be gained by this. Something of
                        Lois's serene indifference had communicated itself to him; and as
                        an attentive student of the continuing human comedy he speculated cheerfully
                        as to the length and violence of the impending storm. Kirkwood had never
                        participated in these  Christmas morning
                        visits, and Phil usually dropped in after her aunts had departed. It seemed
                        easier to let Fate take charge of the disclosure.
                    A door slammed in the upper hall, and Amzi heard the colored woman descending
                        the back stairs. Lois was having her breakfast in her room, an unprecedented
                        circumstance in the domestic economy. Then Jeremiah was summoned to
                        distribute the much-belabeled trunks. Amzi's sensations during
                        these unwonted excitements were, on the whole, not disagreeable. The
                        invasion of his bachelor privacy was too complete for any minute analysis of
                        what he liked or did n't like. It was a good deal of a joke,this
                        breakfasting in bed, this command of the resources of his establishment to
                        scatter trunks about. As he crossed the hall he was arrested by a cheerful
                        "Merry Christmas."
                    Lois, in a pink kimona, smilingly waved her hand from the top step where she
                        sat composedly watching him.
                    "Merry Christmas!" he called back.
                    "Here's a present for you,got it in Paris, special. If you
                        don't like it, I'll trade you another for it.
                        Catch!"
                    She tossed him a box containing a scarfpin, and she nursed her knees, humming
                        to herself and clicking her slipper heels while he examined it. She
                        interrupted his stammered thanks to ask whether any of the
                        "folks" had been in yet.
                    She had dressed her hair in the prevailing pompadour fashion, which was
                        highly becoming; and the kimona imparted to her face a soft rose color. She
                        was a pretty rose of a woman, and he leaned against the newel and regarded
                        her with appreciation.
                    "I slept like a top; it's as still as the woods around
                        here. I suppose Montgomery's never going to grow much; and
                        it's just as well. What's property worth a front foot on
                        Main Street,oh, say within a couple of blocks of the
                        court-house?"
                    "About five hundred dollars, I guess."
                    She lifted her head as though thinking deeply.
                    
                    "Real estate's the only thing, if you get into it right.
                        You were never much on speculation, were you, Amzi? Well, you were wise to
                        keep out of it. It takes imagination" She brushed the subject away
                        gracefully. "You still own a farm or two?"
                    "Yes."
                    "I always thought I'd like to go in for farming sometime.
                        I've looked into the fruit business out West and there must be a
                        lot of cheap land in Indiana that would do splendidly for apples.
                        There's no reason why you should have to pay the freight on apples
                        all the way from Oregon. Ever tackled apples?"
                    "Yes; I have an orchard or two," he admitted
                        wonderingly.
                    If he had spent the night guessing what subject she would choose for a
                        morning confab, apple culture would not have been on the list. He had
                        thought that perhaps the day would bring a torrent of questions about old
                        friends, but she seemed more aloof than ever. The pearl in his scarfpin was
                        a splendid specimen; he roughly calculated that it represented an
                        expenditure of at least a hundred dollars; and she had flung it at him as
                        carelessly as though she were tossing cherries from a tree.
                    "Can I do anything for you about the trunks? You can have Jerry as
                        long as you like."
                    "Oh, I shan't work on that job all day. It's too
                        much bother. I'll dig the stuff out gradually. I'll have
                        to throw most of it away anyhow. I've got everything I own in that
                        pile. I suppose I'd better get dressedWhat did you say about the
                        morning gathering,is it a ceremonial affair?"
                    "Well, the girls have liked to do it that way,all come in a bunch
                        after their home doings."
                    "That's very nice, really picturesque! I suppose
                        they're all a lot of comfort to you, living alone this way. Do they
                        dine here to-day? How about Tom and Phil?"
                    It was clear from her tone that the identity of his guests was a negligible
                        matter. She mentioned her former husband 
                        without emotion, and her tone implied no particular interest in the
                        answer.
                    "We were all of us to dine with Josie to-day; we sort o'
                        move around, and it's her turn; but if you'd rather stay
                        here we'll have dinner together or any way you like. Tom never
                        mixes up in the dinner parties. But Phil will be here after while; say about
                        eleven. You'd better be ready."
                    "Certainly; I'll get into some other clothes right
                        away." She stood, lifted her arms, and stretched herself lazily.
                        "It's nice to see you looking so well; but Sarah confided
                        to me when she brought up my breakfast that you eat altogether too much.
                        Sarah's very nice; I like Sarah. And I can see that Jerry dotes on
                        you. You're pampered, Amzi; I can see that you don't
                        resist the temptation to stuff yourself with Sarah's cooking.
                        I'd be a roly-poly myself if I did n't cut off starch and
                        sweets now and then."
                    There was a sound of steps at the front door, followed by a prolonged tinkle
                        of the doorbell. Amzi glanced up to make sure she was out of sight. He heard
                        her humming as she passed down the hall to her room and then he rubbed his
                        head vigorously as though rallying his wits in readiness for the invasion,
                        and flung open the door.
                    The two young Amzis and little Susan greeted him effusively and he yielded
                        himself with avuncular meekness to their embraces. They had come bearing
                        gifts which they bestowed upon him noisily, while the remainder of the
                        delegation crowded in. His three sisters kissed him in succession, in the
                        ascending order of age, and he shook hands with his brothers-in-law.
                    "Morning, Amzi!"
                    "Morning, Lawrence!"
                    "Morning, Amzi!"
                    "Morning, Paul!"
                    "Morning, Amzi!"
                    "Morning, Alec!"
                    These greetings were as stiff as those that pass between a visiting statesman
                        and the local yeomanry at a rural  reception.
                        Lawrence, Paul, and Alec undoubtedly hated this perfunctory annual tribute
                        to the head of the house of Montgomery, but Amzi liked the perpetuation of
                        his father's house as a family center. It did not matter that greed
                        and sentimentalism were back of his sisters' stubborn devotion to
                        the Montgomery tradition; with him it was an honest sentiment; and as to
                        their avarice, to which he was not insensible, it should be said that
                        charity was not least among his rugged virtues.
                    He made a lark of opening his gifts for the delight of the children. A truce
                        had been effected between the Fosdicks and Watermans by which each of the
                        young Amzis bestowed a box of neckties of approximately the same value upon
                        their uncle. Little Susan gave him a muffler; the sisters had joined in a
                        new easychair which Jeremiah now carried in; their husbands had combined in
                        their usual tribute of cigars. A toy and a five-dollar gold-piece for each
                        child; the little chamois-skin bags of gold-pieces for the sisters; a book
                        for each brother-in-law, completed Amzi's offerings. He announced
                        to the children that he was going to build a toboggan in the back yard for
                        their joint use just as soon as spring came. This was a surprise and called
                        forth much joyous chorusing from the youngsters, whose parents viewed this
                        pendant to the expected gifts with satisfaction, as indicating the
                        increasing warmth of Amzi's affection for their children.
                    "You are always generous, Amzi," said Mrs. Waterman
                        fervidly. "You can put the toboggan on our lot if you
                        like."
                    "And cut down the trees! I should rather do without it than destroy
                        a single one of the old beeches," averred Mrs. Hastings, who,
                        having no children to enjoy the felicities of tobogganing, was not deeply
                        interested in the project.
                    "No trees shall be cut down," replied Amzi quickly;
                        "I'm going to put it on my own place. You can't
                        tell but I may use it myself more or lessafter dark. The children
                        won't mind, and the doctors say I need exercise."
                    
                    Mrs. Waterman pinched her young Amzi, who sweetly chirruped, "We
                        'd love to have you use it, Uncle Amzi."
                    "If Uncle Amzi falls off and breaks hims neck, it would be so
                        fun-nee," piped Susan delightedly.
                    "Susan!" exclaimed Susan's mother, lifting a
                        severe finger.
                    "It would be fun-nee. Would n't it be
                        fun-nee, Aunt Katie? Danny Holton, he fell off hims bicycle going down hims
                        toboggan and breaked one leg; and it ain't got mended yet. And papa
                        says Uncle Amzi's so fat an' he tumble on the ice it would
                        smash him like a old cucumber. Yes, I did, too, hear him say it. Did
                        n't you hear him say it, mamma?"
                    Mrs. Fosdick had heard nothing of the kind, for the excellent reason, as her
                        husband declared, that no such impious thought had ever crossed his mind,
                        much less expressed itself in Susan's presence.
                    Amzi roared with delight, caught up Susan and planted her on his shoulder.
                        Even if Paul Fosdick really had compared him to a mature cucumber it did not
                        greatly matter. Fanny Fosdick glared at her Paul. All the adults present
                        except Amzi were plainly distressed. Mrs. Hastings, being childless and
                        therefore entitled to her opinions as to the rearing of children, resolved
                        that at last she must speak to Fanny about Susie. And all this embarrassment
                        and irritation by the guileless Susie had not disturbed Amzi one whit. Amzi
                        had no intention of rewriting his will to punish Susie, or her forbears.
                    Hastings, gloomily inhaling a cigarette, turned over the pages of the book
                        which Amzi had given him. It was a late study of the art of Henry Irving,
                        and its bestowal had been a conscious flattery on Amzi's part.
                        Still, it touched unhappy chords in Hastings's bosom. Who was
                        better equipped than he to catch up the fallen mantle of Irving? And here he
                        lay impotent in the hands of the fates that had set him down in a dull
                        village, without means even to hang a moving-picture screen upon the
                        deserted stage of his theater.
                    
                    Amzi, having crawled over the floor with Susie at some personal inconvenience
                        and distress, was now helping his name-sakes to set up the engines he had
                        given them, while their mothers murmured suggestions and warnings. Waterman
                        stood at the window looking out upon the snow-covered lawn. Fosdick scanned
                        the market page in Amzi's copy of the Indianapolis
                        "Advertiser." It was in Waterman's mind that if
                        he had the essential funds he might the next ye$aGr renew his assaults upon
                        the halls of Congress. The brothers-in-law distrusted and disliked each
                        other. Each, after his fashion, was a failure; and the angle of their
                        several failures had become acute. Their wives made a brave showing to the
                        public and to each other; there was always the Montgomery pride to be
                        sustained.
                    Amzi, having abandoned the field of engineering to his nephews, contemplated
                        the scene philosophically with his back to the fire. His sisters discussed
                        the annual ball to be given in January by the Sons of Montgomery. They were
                        on the invitation committee, and were confronted with the usual problems of
                        elimination. There was a standard to maintain, and the Newells, who had just
                        moved from Ladoga, and set up a new house and a six-cylinder automobile,
                        were, as every one was saying, such nice people; and
                        Newell undoubtedly made a lot of money out of his saw-mills; and all that.
                        They were painfully conscious that their husbands were not amusing Amzi or
                        each other.
                    "Where's Phil, Amzi?" asked Mrs. Waterman.
                    "Phil has n't showed up yet. I guess she'll be
                        along pretty soon."
                    "Tom has had her with him over at Indianapolis all week. I
                        don't think he ought to take her over there, to run around town
                        while he's busy. She's had so little experience, and with
                        her heedlessness; and all"
                    Mrs. Waterman left the conclusion to their imaginations, and as Amzi made no
                        response and as the other gentlemen seemed indifferent, Mrs. Fosdick threw a
                        bit of kindling upon the dull ashes of the conversation.
                    
                    "Mary Fanning said she saw Phil on the street with a young man over
                        at Indianapolis, only last Tuesday. It is n't fair of Tom; or
                        right, Amzi"
                    "Thunder! I heard what Mary was saying. She saw Phil in Washington
                        Street, with Charlie Holton. What have you girls got against Charlie? If it
                        had n't been for you Phil would n't have known
                        him."
                    "Oh, there's nothing against Charlie; he's a fine
                        fellow. I did n't know it was Charlie," she ended
                        weakly.
                    "Well, it was Charlie. Nan Bartlett heard what Mary was saying, and
                        asked her about it, and that was all there was to it: she saw Phil and
                        Charlie walking along Washington Street, just as they might walk down Main
                        Street here at home if they happened to meet. And for that matter Phil has
                        n't been depending on her father for amusement over there.
                        She's been visiting the Fitchesthe lawyer Fitch, of Wright and
                        Fitch. Tom's been offered a place in the firm; they're the
                        best lawyers in Indiana; and I guess there's nothing the matter
                        with Mrs. Fitch, is there?"
                    This was not only news, but it was astonishing news. Mrs. Fitch's
                        name not only guaranteed a scrupulous chaperonage, but the fact that Phil
                        was a guest in her house was significant of Tom Kirkwood's standing
                        at the capital and of Phil's social acceptance by a woman whose
                        name was constantly impressed upon all students of the society columns of
                        the Indianapolis newspapers.
                    "The last time I was over I saw Mrs. Fitch in a box at the theater,
                        and I must say that I could n't do much for her clothes,"
                        remarked Mrs. Hastings.
                    "You did n't have to do anything for them," said
                        Amzi amiably. "Here, Jerry, put that down on the side
                        table."
                    Jeremiah had appeared with a tray that supported a huge bowl. This followed
                        established custom: eggnog was always served at these gatherings of the
                        clan. Amzi sent the darky away and began filling the glasses, as he liked to
                        serve the tipple himself. The faces of his brothers-in-law brightened.  The persistence with which their wives fussed
                        about Phil exasperated them, and their attacks upon their niece, open or
                        veiled, always roused Amzi. And there was nothing whatever to be gained, as
                        they knew from long experience, by suggesting Phil's delinquencies.
                        The husbands of Phil's aunts admired Phil; the more the girl
                        annoyed her aunts, the more they admired her.
                    "Why does n't Phil come?" demanded Fosdick.
                        "The circle is n't complete without her."
                    Mrs. Waterman had several times during the hour pricked up her ears at sounds
                        above which she was unable to adjust to her knowledge of Amzi's m$eAnage. The step on the floor above was not that of the
                        heavy-footed Sarah, nor yet that of the shuffling Jeremiah. Sarah could be
                        heard in the kitchen, and Jeremiah was even now passing cakes and orange
                        juice to the children at the dining-room table.
                    "Amzi, who's upstairs?" demanded Mrs.
                        Waterman.
                    "Upstairs? Thunder! A woman!"
                    Whereupon Amzi, having handed round the eggnog, stood sipping a glass
                        contentedly in his favorite post by the hearth.
                    "A woman upstairs!"
                    "Yep. She's a woman."
                    "Amzi!"
                    Their backs grew rigid. They had never believed their brother capable of such
                        a thing. They exchanged glances that telegraphed the horror of this
                        depravity. If it had been any one else on earth! And the brazenness of it!
                        Hastings and Fosdick grinned at each other, as much as to say that after all
                        you never can tell. It was a pleasant discovery that their brother-in-law
                        was only human. The cheek of the thing was stupendous; his indifference to
                        the fine scorn of their impeccable wives was superb. Hereafter those ladies
                        would be more tolerant of weak and erring man.
                    Amzi rocked himself on his heels, ignoring them. He had wondered why Lois did
                        not add herself to the family circle. He, too, had heard her quick steps on
                        the floor above, and  had grown impatient at
                        her long delay; but that was part of the joke of it all: Lois would take her
                        time and appear when it suited her convenience. Not for gold, not for much
                        fine gold would he have preluded her approach with any warning. And their
                        ready assumption that they had caught him in an act of impropriety tickled
                        him tremendously. They were all listening now; and there was undeniably
                        something really naughty and devilish in the patter of those French
                        heels!
                    A door above closed with a bang. The shameless creature was tripping
                        downstairs as gayly as though the house belonged to her. The ease of her
                        descent spoke for youth; it was in three minds that old fools are always
                        more susceptible to the wiles of young adventuresses. The sisters averted
                        their faces from the contaminating sight. Amzi was crossing the room and
                        reached the open door as it framed his sister. He had a fine, instinctive
                        sense of courtesy and even his pudgy figure could not diminish his dignity.
                        He took Lois by the hand and led her to the broad hearth as though the
                        fireplace symbolized the domestic altar, and he was restoring her to its
                        protection.
                    "This is Lois," he said simply, as she swung round; and as
                        they stared dully he repeated, "This is Lois."
                    Mrs. Fosdick was nearest, and Mrs. Holton put out her hand to her.
                    "Well, Fanny!" she said; and then, sweeping them all with
                        her smile, "Merry Christmas!"
                    Her clasp of Mrs. Fosdick's hand seemed to bring them all to their
                        feet, and she moved quickly from one to the other, with some commonplace of
                        greeting, and a bright smile for each. Clasping the hands of Kate and
                        Josephine together she looked from one to the other and said in her pleasant
                        voice,
                    "How like old times it seems; and how nice to come in on you all at
                        Christmas! You are a bit stouteryou two but Fanny has n't changed a
                        bit. Alec"she swung round toward the bewildered men"I
                        don't believe you  know me, but I
                        should have recognized you anywhere. Please, now, which is which of
                        you?"
                    "That's Paul Fosdick, Lois; and that's Lawrence
                        Hastings. Gentlemen, Mrs. Holton."
                    "Very glad to meet you, gentlemen. Odd, is n't it? that
                        this should be the first time!"
                    She gave them her hand in turn in her quick graceful way. Since marrying into
                        the family they had heard much of this Lois, and lo! their preconceived
                        notions of her went down with a bang. They had been misled and deceived; she
                        was not that sort of person at all! She had effected as by a miracle a
                        change in the atmosphere of the room. It was as though the first daffodil
                        had daringly lifted its head under a leaden February sky. Amzi, prepared for
                        an explosion, marveled that none had shaken the house from its foundations.
                        But while the masculine members of the family yielded up their arms without
                        a struggle their wives were fortifying themselves against the invader.
                        Amzi's conduct was wholly reprehensible; he had no right to permit
                        and sanction Lois's return; the possibilities implied in her coming
                        were tremendous and far-reaching. It was a staggering blow, this
                        unlooked-for return. While their husbands stood grinning before the
                        shameless woman, they conferred in glances, furtively looking from each
                        other to the prodigal. Amzi fortified himself with another glass of
                        eggnog.
                    Lois had dominated the scene from the moment of her appearance. Her entrance
                        had been the more startling by reason of its very simplicity. She was taking
                        everything as a matter of course, quite as though there were nothing
                        extraordinary in the parting of the waters to afford her passage dry shod,
                        through those sixteen years, to a promised land imaginably represented by
                        Montgomery. Her sisters, huddled by the center table, struggled against
                        their impotence to seize the situation. This was not their idea of the
                        proper return of a woman who had sinned against Heaven, to say nothing of
                        the house of Montgomery. Their course was the more difficult by reason of
                        their ignorance  of the cause of her descent
                        upon them. Amzi should suffer for this; but first she must be dealt with;
                        and they meant to deal with her. Their rage surged the more hotly as they
                        saw their husbands' quick capitulation. They, too, should be dealt
                        with!
                    "Let us all sit down and be comfortable," said Lois easily,
                        and Hastings and Fosdick bumped heads in their mad haste to place a chair
                        for her.
                    Hastings, with his theatric instincts stimulated, and realizing that silence
                        would give the massed artillery of the enemy a chance to thunder,
                        immediately engaged the newcomer in conversation. Paris and its theaters
                        served admirably as a theme. Lois clearly knew her Paris well; and she had
                        met Rostandat a garden partyand spoke of the contemporaneous French drama
                        with the light touch of sophistication. French phrases slipped from her
                        tongue trippingly, and added to her charm and mystery, her fellowship with
                        another and wider world. From Hastings she turned to embrace them all in her
                        talk. The immobile countenances of her sisters, reflecting stubborn
                        resentment and antagonism, were without effect upon her. Instead of sitting
                        before them as the villainess of this domestic drama, a culprit arraigned
                        for her manifold wickednesses, she was beyond question the heroine of the
                        piece.
                    "You remember, Fanny, what a hard business we used to make of our
                        French? Well, in Seattle I had a lot of time on my hands and I put in a good
                        deal of it studying languages. There was a wonderful Frenchwoman out there
                        and I got her to teach me,all good fun, with her; we used to go places
                        together, and I finally reached the point where I could talk back to a
                        French waiter. I really believe I could set up as a teacher now without
                        being indicted for taking money under false pretenses. You have been over,
                        have n't you, Kate? It seems to me I heard of your being there; but
                        you might all have gone round the world a dozen times! Whose children are
                        those out there? Bring them in and let me have a look at them."
                    
                    The children were brought in by their fathers and presented without any
                        interruption to her flow of talk. She let fall a question here and there
                        that was presumably directed to one or the other of her sisters, but their
                        faint, reluctant answers apparently did not disturb her. She was treating
                        them as though they were dingy frumps; and they revolted against all this
                        prattle about Paris. It was distinctly unbecoming in a woman whose sins were
                        so grievous to ripple on so light-heartedly about the unholiest of cities
                        when they sat there as jurors waiting to hear her plea for mercy.
                    "Susan, you dear angel, come here!"
                    Susie toddled into her aunt's arms, raised a face that stickily
                        testified to her Uncle Amzi's plentiful provision of candy, and was
                        kissed. Mrs. Waterman, formulating a plan of campaign, took a step toward
                        Susan as though to save the child from this desecration of its innocence;
                        but a glance from Amzi gave her pause.
                    "Oo have booful clothes. Whas oor name?"
                    "I'm a new aunt; I'm your Aunt Lois. You never
                        heard of me, did you? Well, it does n't matter the tiniest little
                        bit. Something tells me that we're going to get on famously. I
                        should n't wonder, I should n't wonder at all, Susan, if
                        we became the best of friends."
                    Her voice softened into new and charming tones. She held the sticky, chubby
                        hands unmindfully. She was one of those women who are incapable of an
                        awkward attitude. The child lingered, examining with wide-eyed scrutiny the
                        enchantments of the new lady's apparel.
                    "She's charming, Fanny," Lois remarked, glancing
                        up suddenly at Susan's mother; "a perfectly adorable
                        baby."
                    "Oo going to stay in this house? This Uncle Amzi ims
                        house."
                    "Now, Susan, do you really want me to stay?"
                    Susan surveyed her newfound aunt gravely before passing upon this question
                        that was so much more momentous than she realized. Lois, bending forward in
                        her low chair  with her head slightly to one
                        side, met the child's gaze with like gravity. It might have been
                        assumed from her manner that she attached the greatest importance to
                        Susan's verdict; there may even have been an appeal in the brown
                        eyes; but if there was it was an affair between the woman and the child in
                        which the spectators had no share.
                    Susan swallowed.
                    "Oo stay and play wif me. Uncle Amzi ims going to make big toboggan
                        in ims yard and oo can slide down wif me. And Phil she come and play. Phil
                        make me bow and arroo and Phil, her shooted it at old rooster and ims est
                        runned and runned."
                    "How splendid!" laughed Lois.
                    "You may go now, Susan" said her mother, feeling that this
                        flirtation had progressed far enough.
                    Thus admonished Susan withdrew, while her brother and cousin submitted
                        themselves to the new aunt's closer inspection.
                    "Two Amzis! It's quite fine of you to perpetuate the name,
                        girls. You must be sure, boys, always to spell your name out; don't
                        hide in behind an initial. These old Bible names are a lot better than these
                        new fancy ones. There must be a million Donalds and Dorothys right now
                        scattered over the United States. Where do you go to school,
                        boys?"
                    She plainly interested them. She was a new species, and had for them the
                        charm of strangeness. She wore on her wrist a tiny watch, the like of which
                        they had never seen before, and one of them poked it shyly with his finger.
                        She accommodatingly slipped it off and gave it to them to examine, telling
                        them of the beautiful shop in Geneva where she had bought it. Susan returned
                        to share in these further revelations by the wonderful lady. The spectacle
                        of their children gathered at the erring Lois's knees, filled the
                        watchful sisters with dismay. The ease of the woman's conquests,
                        her continued indifference to their feelings, caused their indignation to
                        wax hot.
                    "The children must go. Run along home now, and, boys,  see that Susie gets home safely. No; you must
                        go at once!" said Mrs. Waterman.
                    "Oo bring lady home to ours house, mamma; my wants to play with
                        lady's watch."
                    "Skip along, Susan; you'll have lots of time to play with
                        my watch," said Lois. "Oh, wait a minute!"
                    Jeremiah was bringing fresh glasses for the eggnog, and she sent him to her
                        room to bring down some packages she had left on her bed.
                    While he was gone she romped with Susan, running back through the hall into
                        the dining-room with the chirruping child trotting after her, and paused
                        breathless as Jeremiah placed the parcels on the center table.
                    "That is altogether unnecessary; the children have had enough
                        presents," said Mrs. Fosdick. "The children must go at
                        once."
                    "Oh, these are only trifles; just a minute more," Lois
                        flung over her shoulder.
                    She peered into a box, inspected the contents with a moment's quick
                        appraisement, and clasped on Susie's chubby wrist a tiny
                        bracelet.
                    "There, Susan! What do you think of that?"
                    Susan thought well of it beyond question and trotted to her mother to exhibit
                        the treasure.
                    Three pairs of eyes looked upon the trinket coldly. Careless of their scorn
                        Lois was enjoying the mystification of the young Amzis, to whom she held out
                        two boxes and bade them make a choice. She laughed merrily when they opened
                        them and found two silver watches as like as two peas.
                    There was no questioning Lois's complete success with the children.
                        Their fathers responded in grateful praise of the gifts: their Uncle Amzi
                        said "Thunder!" and expressed his delight.
                    "Now, you youngsters run along or I'll get scolded for
                        keeping you. Scoot!"
                    Lois urged them to the door, where Susan presented her face for further
                        osculation.
                    
                    "You should n't have done that, Lois; it was altogether
                        unnecessary," announced Mrs. Fosdick.
                    "Oh, those things! they're not of the slightest importance.
                        I did n't know just how many youngsters you had, and the shops over
                        there are simply irresistible."
                    She ladled herself a glass of eggnog composedly, as though wholly unconscious
                        that the withdrawal of the noncombatants had cleared the field for
                        battle.
                    The sisters, having sipped Amzi's Christmas tipple apprehensively,
                        noted that this was Lois's second glass.
                    "Well, what are you all doing with yourselves?" she asked,
                        sinking into a chair. "Kate, I believe I look more like you than
                        either Fanny or Jo. I think you are taller than I am, but we have the same
                        complexion. My face is all chopped up from the sea; it was the worst
                        crossing I ever made, but I only missed one day on deck. The captain is the
                        best of fellows and kept an officer trailing me to see that I did
                        n't tumble overboard."
                    She glanced at Hastings as though he were more likely than the others to
                        respond to observations on sea travel. He declared that he always preferred
                        winter crossings; it was the only way to feel the power and majesty of the
                        sea.
                    "I always feel so," said Lois.
                    Amzi fidgeted about the room, wishing they would all go.
                    "Lois," said Mrs. Waterman, gathering herself together,
                        "you will understand, of course, that we don't mean to be
                        unkind, but we feel that we have a rightthat it is only proper and just for
                        us to know why you have come back in this way, without giving us any
                        warning, so that we might prepare ourselves"
                    Lois's brows lifted slightly; the slim fingers of her right hand
                        clasped the gold band by which the blue enameled watch was attached to her
                        left wrist. She tilted her head to one side, as though mildly curious as to
                        the drift of her sister's remark.
                    "Oh, you must n't mind that at all! I should have been
                        sorry if you had gone to any trouble for me. Dropping in  this way, what should one expect?" A
                        pretty shrug expressed her feeling that nothing at all had been expected.
                        "Jo, do you remember that time you were running from Captain Joshua
                        Wilson's cow, in his pasture over there beyond the college, and you
                        fell over a fence and cracked a tooth, and how you bawled about it? And I
                        suppose that gold tooth is a memento of the occasion. We used to be the
                        maddest of harum-scarums in those days!"
                    It was not wholly kind, perhaps, for a woman whose white, even teeth were
                        undisfigured by fillings thus to direct attention to the marks of the
                        dentist's tool in her sister's mouth. And yet Lois had not
                        meant to be unkind; the past as symbolized by Captain Wilson's cow
                        sent her off tangentially into the recent history of Captain
                        Joshua's family, and she demanded information as to the
                        Wilsons' daughter Amanda, who ran away and married an army officer
                        she had met at Columbus, Ohio. As the sisters had never liked Amanda Wilson,
                        they were not pleased to be obliged to confess that the marriage had been a
                        satisfactory one in every particular, and that Amanda's husband was
                        now a colonel. The barometer fell steadily and the gloom of the Arctic night
                        deepened in the faces of the trio.
                    "Anybody have any more eggnog?" asked Amzi guilelessly.
                    "I think," said Mrs. Fosdick furiously, "that
                        we've all had enough of that stuff."
                    This was the least bit pointed, as her husband was at that moment filling a
                        fourth glass for himself.
                    Mrs. Waterman renewed her attack, drawing nearer to the culprit.
                    "Of course, you realize, Lois, that after all that has happened, our
                        coming back here, particularly unannounced, creates a very delicate
                        situation. It can't be possible that you don't understand
                        how it complicates thingsthat as a matter of fact"
                    "Oh, as a matter of fact it's a great bore to talk of it! I
                        suppose I'm the one that's likely to be most annoyed, but
                             you need n't waste any time
                        being sorry for me. I did n't have to come; nobody asked me.
                        You'll not be in the least embarrassed by my coming. I
                        don't look as though I were in deep distress about anything, do I?
                        Well, I'm not. So don't prepare to weep over me. Tears are
                        bad for the complexion and puckering up your face makes
                        wrinkles."
                    Fosdick snickered, an act of treachery on his part which brought his wife to
                        Mrs. Waterman's support. Fanny Fosdick was readier of speech than
                        Josephine, who was inclined to pomposity when she tried to be
                        impressive.
                    "You can't dodge the situation in any such way; you had no
                        right to come back. Your coming can only bring up the old scandal, that we
                        have been trying to live down. It's not a thing you can laugh off.
                        A woman can't do what you did in a town like this and come back
                        expecting everybody to smile over it."
                    "And Jack Holton has just been here; that was bad enough!"
                        threw in Mrs. Hastings. "And if you are still running after him"
                    "Girls!" exploded Amzi, "you'd better cut
                        all this out. You're not going to help matters by fussing over what
                        Lois did. I'm sure we're all glad to have her back;
                        I'm sure we've always hoped she would come
                        back."
                    "I think the least you say about it the better, Amzi," said
                        Mrs. Waterman witheringly. "It's your fault that
                        she's here. And if you had honored us with your confidence and
                        taken our advice"
                    "Thunder! what would you have done about it! I did n't
                        think it was any of your business."
                    This from the potential benefactor of their children was not reassuring. The
                        financial considerations crystallized by the return of the wanderer were not
                        negligible. Every one in Montgomery knew that Jack Holton had come back to
                        wrest money from William, and it was inconceivable that Lois had not flung
                        herself upon Amzi for shelter and support. And as they had long assumed that
                        she was a pensioner upon her brother's bounty, they were now
                        convinced by  the smartness of her gown and
                        her general "air" as of one given to self-indulgence in
                        the world's bazaars, that she had become a serious drain upon
                        Amzi's resources.
                    "I think," declared Mrs. Waterman, "that it is a
                        good deal our business. We can't make the world over to suit
                        ourselves, and we can't fly in the face of decency without getting
                        scratched. And when a woman brought up as Lois was does what she did, and
                        runs through with her money, and comes home"
                    She gulped in her effort to express the enormity of her sister's
                        transgressions; whereupon Mrs. Fosdick caught the ball and flung back:
                    "Of course, if Lois is in need of help, we all stand ready to help
                        her. She must understand that we feel strongly the ties of blood, and I want
                        to say that I'm willing to do my share, in the very fullest
                        sense."
                    Lois rose impatiently.
                    "Don't be a lot of geese, you girls! Of course,
                        you're all cut up at seeing me so unexpectedly, but I'm
                        not going to let you be foolish about it. It's all in a lifetime
                        anyway: and I really wish you would n't say things which to-morrow
                        or the day after you'll be sorry for. I understand as perfectly as
                        though you ran on all night just how you feel; you're horrified,
                        ashamed, outragedall those things. Bless me, you would n't be
                        respectable women if you were not! If you fell on my neck and kissed me I
                        should resent it. Really I should! You would be a disgrace to civilization
                        if my showing up here on Christmas morning did n't give you nausea.
                        I've been divorced twice, and anybody with any sort of nice feeling
                        about life would make a rumpus about it. I'm rather annoyed about
                        it myself; so that's all perfectly regular. You have said just what
                        you ought to have said and you feel just as you should feel. Now
                        that's understood, why not talk of something else and be
                        comfortable?"
                    The three men had discreetly betaken themselves across the hall and the
                        children of Amzi II were alone.
                    "You forget, Lois, that there are other persons besides  ourselves to consider. If it were just Amzi
                        and us" persisted Mrs. Waterman, shifting her ground before this
                        shameless confession.
                    "There's the whole world, when you come to that,"
                        said Lois. "What's in your mind, Jo,Tom and Phil? Well,
                        there's nothing novel in that; I thought about them a good deal
                        before I came back. You may scratch Tom off the list; he's clear
                        out of it. But as for Phil"
                    "As for Phil, you have no right
                    "I have n't the slightest claim on Phil, of course; I never
                        said I had, and I don't pretend to have. Please don't
                        assume, Fanny, that I've lost all the wits I ever had!
                        I'll say to you frankly that I feel that my coming may be
                        troublesome to Phil; and yet the fact that I am here" (she smiled
                        and threw out her arms, allowing them to fall to emphasize the futility of
                        words)"the fact that I am here shows that I have considered that
                        and decided to take the risk of coming, in spite of Phil."
                    "Lois, you don't seem to have the slightest comprehension
                        of the casenot the slightest," urged Mrs. Waterman, resenting the
                        smile with which her sister had ended. "You brutally abandoned
                        Phil; and now you come back to spoil her life. I did n't suppose
                        there was a woman in the world so callous, so utterly without shame, so
                        blindly selfish"
                    Amzi paused in his stride across the room and planted himself belligerently
                        before his oldest sister. His eyes bulged angrily.
                    "Josie, you can't talk like that to Lois; not in this
                        house! I tell you, Lois is all right. If you don't like her, you
                        can let her alone. I'm not going to have you talk to her like
                        thisnot here. Now I want you to understand, you, Josie; you, Kate; you,
                        Fanny" (he indicated each in turn with his pudgy forefinger)
                        "I would n't let her badger you, and I'm not
                        going to let you jump on her."
                    "You talk like a fool, Amzi," said Mrs. Waterman, angry
                        tears flashing in her eyes. "If you realized what we have always
                        stood for in this community, and what it means to  you as well as the rest of us; and poor little Phil, and
                        all"
                    "What have you all got to do with Phil? Phil's all
                        right," he shouted hoarsely.
                    "I think," shot Mrs. Hastings, "that the easiest
                        thing for Lois, and the best thing, is for her to go quietly without seeing
                        Phil."
                    "That's my own opinion," affirmed Mrs.
                        Fosdick.
                    Lois listened with her detached air, as though the subject under discussion
                        related to some one she knew slightly but was not particularly interested
                        in.
                    "Bless me! Such a wow and a wumpus. You really think I'd
                        better go?" she asked casually.
                    The three, accepting this as a sign of yielding, chorused an eager, sibilant
                        Yes.
                    "Think of Phil, just at the threshold of her life. We've
                        done our best for poor dear Phil," said Mrs. Fosdick chokingly.
                        "Amzi can't deny that we've tried to do our duty
                        by her."
                    "Of course, you have all been nice to her," remarked Lois,
                        picking up a box of candy and shaking it to bring to the surface some
                        particular sweatmeat.
                    "It has not been so easy to bring Phil up!" declared Mrs.
                        Waterman, enraged that Phil's mother should take their assumption
                        of responsibility for the child's upbringing so lightly, so
                        entirely as a matter of course.
                    "You ought to know, without our telling you, Lois," said
                        Mrs. Hastings, "that your coming back will be the worst thing
                        possible for dear Phil. If you think about it quietly for an hour or two,
                        I'm sure you will see that."
                    "You ought to go down on your knees to God with it!" boomed
                        Mrs. Waterman, "before you think of contaminating her young life.
                        It's only right that we should talk to our pastor before coming to
                        a decision."
                    Amzi snorted and walked to the window. There he saw as he looked out upon the
                        lawn something that interested him; that caused a grin to fasten itself upon
                        his rubicund countenance.  Phil, under a fire
                        of snowballs from a group of boys who were waiting with their Christmas
                        sleds for a chance to hitch to a passing vehicle, gained Amzi's
                        gate, ducked behind the fence to gather ammunition, rose and delivered her
                        fire, and then retreated toward the house. Her aunts, still stubbornly
                        confronting her mother, and sobbingly demanding that Phil be kept away
                        pending a recourse to spiritual counsel, started at the sound of an
                        unmistakable voice. Amzi, chewing his cigar, watched Phil's flight
                        up the path, and noted the harmless fall of the final shots about her. She
                        waved her hand from the doorstep, commented derisively upon the
                        enemy's marksmanship, and flung the door open with a bang. A gust
                        of cold air seemed to precipitate Phil into the room.
                    "Hello, Amy! Merry Christmas, everybody!"
                    Amzi walked toward Lois. "Phil, this is your mother."
                    Mrs. Hastings glided from her post by the hearth until she stood between Phil
                        and Lois, who stood with her back to the center table, the tips of her
                        fingers resting upon it. Her face betrayed no apprehensions. For the moment
                        she was out of the scene and the contest lay between Phil and her aunts.
                    "Phil, this is not the place for you! Go into the other room at
                        once," said Mrs. Hastings, swallowing a sob.
                    Amzi struck a match and lighted a cigar with his habitual three puffs. Across
                        the flame he saw Phil sweeping the group with her eyes. She stood erect, her
                        hands in her muff to which particles of snow clung where it had fallen in
                        her encounter with the boys at the gate. The crisp air had brightened her
                        cheeks. She wore that look of unconcern for which she had been distinguished
                        as a child. She moved her head slightly, to avoid the figure of the
                        intercepting aunt, and met for an instant her mother's indifferent,
                        unappealing gaze. Her intuitions grasped the situation and weighed its nice
                        points. Phil had rarely in her life been surprised and she showed no
                        surprise now.
                    "It 's rather cold, is n't it, Phil?"
                        Lois remarked.
                    
                    "Chilly in hererather!" said Phil in the same key.
                    "Phil!" thundered the aunts.
                    "Christmas is nicer with snow. I hate green Christmases,"
                        observed Lois, who had not changed her position.
                    "I've never seen but two," replied Phil, as
                        readily as though the dialogue had been rehearsed; "and I hated
                        them." Then, drawing her hand from her muff, she flung it out in a
                        burlesque of the amateur recitationist:
                    
                        "O pray, upon my Christmas morn,
                        Let snow the leaf-shorn boughs adorn.
                    
                    How is that, Amy! A little worse than my worst?"
                        She stepped round her Aunt Kate, shook hands with her mother, then upon
                        second thought dropped her muff, seized both her hands, and kissed her.
                    "Were you all really just about going? I'm late! Made nine
                        stops on the way, took a brief sleigh-ride with Captain Wilson, ate too much
                        butter-scotch at the Bartletts', and here we are!"
                    She pushed a chair toward the hearth so violently that the castors screeched
                        and her Aunt Kate jumped to avoid being run over.
                    "Why not sit down, mamma? Amy, where's my present?
                        Here's me to you."
                    She picked up her muff, drew out a parcel tied with red ribbon, with a bit of
                        mistletoe tucked under the bow-knot, and tossed it to Amzi.
                    "It's perfectly bully that you're back,"
                        she said, addressing herself again to her mother. "Actually here
                        all right, a real Christmas surprise. I'll take that up with Amy
                        later; he's no business playing such a trick. But it must tickle
                        you to see how dee-lighted everybody is! Oh, are you off, Aunt Josie? Hello,
                        Lawrince!" She turned to wave her hand to Hastings at the door,
                        where Waterman, Fosdick, and he had witnessed their wives'
                        discomfiture. Those ladies were now attempting to impart to their exits the
                        majesty of righteous indignation.
                    
                    Phil kicked an old carpeted footstool to the hearth, and dropped upon it at
                        her mother's feet.
                    "What an old fraud Amy is not to have told me!"
                    She waited for the ultimate sounds of departure, and kissed her fingers to
                        the closed door.
                    Then she raised her arms quickly and drew down her mother's head
                        until their cheeks touched.
                    "Thunder!" said Amzi, and left them together.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVII
                    PHIL'S PERPLEXITIES
                    PHIL reached home shortly before one, and called her
                        father's name in the hall without eliciting a response. The odor of
                        roasting turkey was in the house, and she noted that the table was set for
                        four. The maid-of-all-work was moulding cranberry jelly when Phil thrust her
                        head into the kitchen.
                    "There's going to be company for dinner," the
                        woman explained. "Your pa came in and told me so. He's
                        gone down to his office for a minute."
                    Phil had not heard that they were to have guests. She stood in the
                        dining-room viewing the two extra places and wondering whom her father had
                        asked. Usually on holidays, when the rest of the family assembled at
                        Amzi's, the Kirkwoods had eaten their midday meal alone. If he had
                        asked the Bartletts' to share this particular Christmas feast it
                        must have been without premeditation, for she had herself visited the
                        sisters on her way to Amzi's, and nothing had been said about a
                        later meeting. It was not like her father to invite guests without
                        consulting her. Her mother's return had changed the
                        world's orbit. Nothing was as it had been; nothing seemed quite
                        real. The house in Buckeye Lane, about which so many happy memories
                        clustered, was suddenly become distorted and all out of drawing, as though
                        she viewed it through a defective window-pane. She went upstairs and glanced
                        warily into her father's bedroom, as though fearing to find ghosts
                        there.
                    As she redressed her hair she regarded herself in the mirror with a new
                        curiosity. She was a stranger to herself; she was not the same Phil Kirkwood
                        who had stood before the glass that morning, but a very different persona
                        Phil who  had come suddenly upon a hidden
                        crevasse in the bright, even meadow of her life and peered into an
                        undreamed-of abyss.
                    If her motherthat mother who had always lived less vividly in her imagination
                        than her favorite characters in fictionhad not proved so bewilderingly, so
                        enthrallingly captivating, so wholly charming and lovable, she might have
                        grappled the situation with some certainty. But no woman had ever been like
                        that! Her mother was the most wonderful being in the world! Little by little
                        through the years her aunts had been creating in Phil's mind a
                        vulgar, vain, wicked figure and pointing to it as a fair portrait of her
                        mother. She had always disliked her aunts; she found herself hating them now
                        with a passionate intensity that frightened her.
                    She flung herself down in the window-seat and looked toward Main Street with
                        unseeing eyes. A wonderful voice murmured in her ears, speaking a new
                        language. She tried to recall what had been said as she crouched at her
                        mother's feet, her head in her lap, before the fire in
                        Amzi's living-room; but it was like the futile effort to recall an
                        elusive strain of music. She had felt curiously no disparity of years in
                        that interview; it had been like a talk with a newfound sister, or with a
                        girl with whom she had established one of the sudden intimate friendships of
                        school days. This wonderful Lois touched with a warm brilliancy innumerable
                        points and surfaces that flashed and gleamed before Phil's
                        fascinated, eager eyes. She had satisfied her curiosity as to Phil in a
                        dozen direct questions that elicited information without leaving any ground
                        for discussing it. Was Phil well?and happy? What was Phil most interested
                        in? Had there been money enough for her needs? And always with the
                        implication that if the answers to these questions should not prove
                        satisfactory, it did not greatly matter, as the deficiencies could easily be
                        supplied.
                    They were to see each other, Phil and this enchanting motherto-morrow; yes,
                        there had been definite agreement upon that. But Lois had seemed as
                        indifferent to days  after to-morrow as to
                        days before yesterday. And while this troubled Phil, she had caught so much
                        of her mother's spirit, she had been so responsive to the new
                        amazing language that fell so fascinatingly from her mother's lips,
                        that she accepted the promise of a single to-morrow without misgivings.
                        Sufficient unto the day was the wonder thereof!
                    She drew from her pocket a wristlet of diamonds, which Lois had given her as
                        they parted at Amzi's door. The gems sparkled in the sunny window.
                        It was a trinket of beauty and value, and Phil clasped it upon her wrist and
                        contemplated it with awe and delight. It was worth, she assumed, almost or
                        quite as much as the house in which she lived; and yet her mother had
                        bestowed it upon her with gay apologies for its paltrinessthis mother out of
                        a fairy-tale, this girlish mother with the wise, beautiful eyes, and most
                        entrancing of voices.
                    The gate clicked and she glanced down at the yard. Her father was bringing
                        Rose and Nan to the house! They were walking briskly, and advanced to the
                        door laughing. The women looked up, saw Phil, and waved their hands. Her
                        father flung a snowball at the window. Happiness was in the faces of the
                        trioa happiness that struck Phil with forebodings. She had never in her
                        imaginings thought an hour would come when she would begrudge her father any
                        joy that might come to him; even less had it ever seemed possible that she
                        would look forward with dread to meeting Rose and Nan. She hid her
                        mother's gift and ran down to let them in.
                    "You remember," said her father, "the Maryland
                        epicure's remark about the turkey being an annoying bird just a
                        leetle too big for one and not quite big enough for two? I decided to see
                        how it would work for four."
                    "We did n't know we were coming, Phil, when we saw you.
                        Your father came along afterward and found we were going to eat a plain,
                        domestic duck by ourselves; and we weakly, meekly fell," explained
                        Rose.
                    "There can't be a real Christmas unless there's a
                        party;  and I thought it about time we had a
                        quiet little celebration of "The Gray Knight of
                        Picardy"seventh edition now printing, and the English rights well
                        placed. Phil, it's up to you to carry on the literary partnership
                        with Nan. I'm out of it. I'm going to write the publisher
                        at once to go ahead and enlighten the wondering world as to the authorship
                        of the "Gray Knight"Miss Nancy Bartlett, of Buckeye
                        Lane!"
                    "You shall do nothing of the kind, Tom," declared Nan with
                        emphasis; and immediately blushed.
                    This was the first time Phil had heard Nan call her father by his first name.
                        To be sure, he always addressed both Nan and Rose by their Christian names;
                        but that was not surprising, as he had known the Bartletts' well
                        from the time of his coming to the college, when every one called him
                        Professor or Doctor.
                    At the table Nan and Kirkwood did most of the talking, and now and then they
                        exchanged glances that expressed to Phil some new understanding between
                        them. It had never before been so clear to Phil how perfectly sympathetic
                        these two were. Her father was a clever man and Nan Bartlett an unusually
                        clever woman. At other times Phil would have delighted in their sharp
                        fencing; the snap and crackle of their dialogue; but her heart ached to-day.
                        She felt the presence of a specter at the table. She heard that other voice
                        with its new and thrilling accents, that careless, light laugh with its
                        gentle mockery. She was recalled from a long reverie by a question from
                        Rose.
                    "How did you find the gathering of the clans at
                        Amzi's?"
                    "Just about as cheerful as usual," replied Phil
                        colorlessly.
                    "Amzi's seat will be in the front row of the heavenly
                        choir-loft," observed Nan. "What he has taken from those
                        women has given him a clear title to joys ineffable."
                    "Amy is not a mere man," said Phil; "he is a great
                        soul."
                    She had spoken so earnestly that they all looked at her in surprise. If she
                        had referred to her uncle as a brick, or a grand old sport, or the dearest
                        old Indian on the reservation  they would have
                        taken it as a matter of course; but Phil was not quite herself to-day.
                    "Don't you feel well, Phil?" asked Nan, so
                        pointedly referring to the unwonted sobriety with which she had spoken of
                        her uncle that they all laughed.
                    "The aunts must have been unusually vexatious to-day.
                        You're not quite up to pitch, Phil. Too much candy has spoiled your
                        appetite," remarked her father.
                    "I guess my sweet tooth did betray me into indiscretions,"
                        she answered with an effort at lightness; and added,
                    
                        "The bonbon and the caramel
                        Poor Phyllis did waylay;
                        And being only a weak mortal young thing to whom
                        Christmas comes but once a year,
                        Is it surprising what befell?
                        For she knew not the sad word Nay."
                    
                    "Oh, unutterable horrors! That's the worst you ever
                        perpetrated!" cried her father. "Just for that you shall
                        eat another piece of mince pie."
                    "Nothing of the kind, Tom; we must not add to the sufferings of one
                        whose own rhymes are punishment enough," said Nan.
                    The two women looked at Phil more closely. She seemed preoccupied and her
                        contributions to their banter were perfunctory and spiritless. When they
                        were established in the living-room, Phil crouched on a stool by the fire.
                        Concealment and dissimulation were so wholly foreign to her nature that it
                        was with difficulty that she resisted an impulse to blurt out the whole
                        thing. They would know within a few hours of her mother's return,
                        and the fact that she had withheld the information would make her situation
                        more difficult. She saw her father furtively touch Nan's hand; he
                        was beyond question very much in love with her; and Nan had practically
                        confessed, on that memorable afternoon following Amzi's party, her
                        regard for Kirkwood. Then it had seemed to Phil the most natural and
                        rational thing in the world for her father and Nan to marry; but now  in this whirling chaos to which the world had
                        been reduced, the thought of it was abhorrent. No wonder they looked at her
                        curiously, not understanding her silence. Phil loved them all! Phil wanted
                        everybody to be happy! Yet clearly happiness even in the small circle of her
                        nearest and dearest was impossible. Her nimble fancy led her over rough
                        chaotic peaks in an effort to find a point from which to survey the general
                        desolation. In practical terms she reasoned that men and women sometimes
                        remarried after a long estrangement. PerhapsBut she was unable to push
                        beyond that perhaps.
                    The bell rang and she was glad of the interruption. Fred Holton had come to
                        call. Kirkwood greeted him cordially, and they widened the circle before the
                        grate to admit him. Phil addressed herself to Fred with the kindliness he
                        always inspired in her. He was a trifle abashed by the presence of the
                        Bartletts, and on seeing them, furtively dropped a package he had brought on
                        a chair by the door. Phil, inspecting it glancingly, saw her name scribbled
                        on the paper wrapper.
                    "Christmas gift! Who guesses this is a Christmas gift for
                        me?"
                    "Everybody!" cried the Bartletts.
                    "I guess it's a book. I hope it's a book. I shall
                        be disappointed if it is n't a book," continued Phil.
                    Fred blushed, and said it was n't anything. The clerk in the
                        bookstore had recommended it, and he thought Phil might like it. Phil tore
                        off the wrapper and held up "The Gray Knight of Picardy."
                        The sight of it sent a quick, sharp pain through her heart. It was no longer
                        merely the best tale of the season that her father and one of her dearest
                        friends had written, but a book her father and the woman he loved had
                        written; and this, in the light of the day's events, was a very
                        different matter.
                    "Thank you, Fred. It's nice of you to think of me. And
                        I'm sure it's a good story."
                    "They say it's awfully funny," said Fred.
                    
                    Nothing seemed funny to Phil; but she exerted herself to be entertaining. She
                        was in a mood to be touched by his gift. Charles Holton had sent her a box
                        of roses from Indianapolis and they were nodding from the tall vase on the
                        mantel. She saw Fred eyeing them, and hastened to say that books made the
                        finest possible gifts.
                    "It must be lonely in the country to-day" remarked Nan.
                        "But I suppose you've spent the day in town."
                    "Only part of it," replied Fred. "I could
                        n't desert the live stock; and I have a man there with me. We had
                        our Christmas feast and I hopped on the interurban."
                    "Turkey?" asked Phil.
                    "No; rabbit. Rabbit's much more wholesome for Christmas
                        than turkey. We sell turkeys to the city folks and feast on rabbits when we
                        need them. I poached this one, too. But don't tell Mr. Montgomery.
                        It ran under his fence into my pasture, and fearing it was my last chance
                        for Christmas dinner, I pulled the trigger. Is that a high crime, Mr.
                        Kirkwood?"
                    "Not at all. We'll assume that it was really your rabbit
                        that had just been out for a stroll on Mr. Montgomery's side of the
                        fence. I'll promise to get you off if you're
                        prosecuted."
                    "I should think it would be quite grand and splendid to own a farm
                        and go out and pick off game that way," said Phil musingly.
                        "Monarch of all you survey, and that sort of thing. When I had a
                        Flobert rifle in my enchanted youth and shot sparrows in our back yard, I
                        had something of the same exalted feeling. Only our estate here is too
                        limited. The neighbors kicked; so many wild shots. Absurd how sensitive
                        people are. But I suppose if I had n't broken a few glasses of new
                        quince preserves the lady across our alley had put to sun in her kitchen
                        window, I might never have lost the gun."
                    "I don't seem to remember that incident of your career,
                        Phil," said Rose.
                    "I hope nobody does. The lady's husband happened to be the
                        town marshal, and he told daddy a lot of sad things  that were going to happen to me if I did n't stop
                        shooting at his perfectly good wife as she followed her usual
                        avocations."
                    The Bartletts were relieved to find Phil restored to something like her
                        normal cheerful self. They all enlarged upon the impingement of her bullets
                        upon the marshal's wife's quinces, discussing the subject
                        in the mock-serious vein that was common in their intercourse. If Phil had
                        killed her neighbor, would it have been proper for the defense to prove that
                        the quinces were improperly prepared? Kirkwood insisted that such testimony
                        would have been grossly irregular and that an able jurist like Judge Walters
                        would certainly have rejected it. They played with the idea of
                        Phil's heinous crime until they wore it out.
                    "Put on the black cap and tell me when I'm to
                        die," said Phil. "I'm guilty. I really did kill
                        the woman and I buried her under the plum tree in her back yard. Now
                        let's think of something cheerful."
                    Nan and Kirkwood dropped out of the circle a little later, and Phil heard
                        them talking in subdued tones in the library. Rose withdrew to the window
                        and became absorbed in a book.
                    "I saw you and Charlie that day you climbed up the bluff,"
                        said Fred the moment Rose was out of hearing. "I hope you
                        won't do that any more. I hope you won't ever do things
                        like that again!" he ended earnestly.
                    "It was just a lark; why should n't I do it?"
                    "The chances were that you'd fall and be killed. You had no
                        right to take the chance. And Charlie had no right to let you do
                        it."
                    "Charlie had n't anything to do with it. He could
                        n't have helped himself," said Phil defensively.
                    "Then the rest of them down on the creek should have stopped you. It
                        was the craziest thing I ever saw."
                    "I suppose it was silly," Phil admitted tamely,
                        "but it's all over now."
                    It was in her heart to say that nothing greatly mattered,  and yet there was a certain comfort in
                        knowing that he cared. His blue eyes told her frankly how much he cared; and
                        she was not unmindful of the wistful smile with which he regarded her.
                    His glance wandered from her face to the long-stemmed roses on the
                        mantel-shelf behind her. He knew perfectly well where those roses had come
                        from. She saw the resentment in his eyes. The resumption of social relations
                        between her aunts and the Holtons that had brought her in contact with these
                        nephews of Jack Holton struck her in a new light, with Fred there before
                        her, with Charles's roses flaunting themselves unrebuked in her
                        father's house. She had no business to be receiving Fred Holton;
                        Charles's flowers assumed suddenly a dire significance. She meant
                        to be rid of them the moment she could do so without attracting attention.
                        It was on her tongue to say something unkind to Fred; her loyalty to her
                        mother seemed to demand it. And yet neither Fred nor Charles had been in any
                        wise responsible for her mother's tragedy. Fred had risen and stood
                        before the fire with his arms folded. The care he took to make himself
                        presentable, expressed in his carefully brushed clothes; the polish on his
                        rough shoes; his cleanshaven face, touched her now as at other times. She
                        wondered whether, if they had been alone, she would not have confessed her
                        perplexities and asked his counsel. In their talks she had been impressed by
                        his rugged common sense, and her plight was one that demanded the exercise
                        of just that quality. Rose turned the pages of her book. Her father and Nan
                        continued their conference in low tones in the adjoining room.
                    "You promisedon't youthat you won't ever do
                        foolish things like that any more," and Fred put out his hand half
                        in farewell, half as though the clasp he invited would mean a pledge.
                    "Please forget it. I'll probably never have another chance.
                        That was the kind of thing you do only once; there would n't be any
                        fun in doing it over again."
                    
                    "Your father has been mighty nice to me: I wanted to tell him I
                        appreciated it. I felt I'd like to say that to him on Christmasjust
                        a kind of sentimental feeling about it. But you please say it for me.
                        He'll understand; I could n't say it before the
                        others."
                    She responded passively: there were a good many things that she must say to
                        her father!
                    Kirkwood and Nan reappeared as they heard Fred saying good-bye to Rose.
                    Nan said she and her sister must be going, too, as they had some calls to
                        make. At the door Nan kissed Phil, and asked her to come to see her the next
                        day. The kiss and this special invitation, half-whispered, confirmed
                        Phil's belief that her father and Nan would have told her of their
                        engagement if Fred's coming had not interfered. She was glad for
                        the delay, and yet it would have been easier in many ways to have met the
                        issue squarely before Nan and Rose. She and her father watched Fred and the
                        women pass from sight toward town.
                    "He seems to be a nice fellow," remarked Kirkwood, as they
                        returned to the living-room"a clean, manly sort of
                        chap."
                    "He's all that," replied Phil. "He came
                        to thank you for something: he's too shy to talk much in company
                        and he asked me to tell you how much he appreciated something or other you
                        had done for him."
                    "Queer chap, for a Holton," Kirkwood observed, striking a
                        match on the underside of the slate mantel-shelf. "There's
                        a real nobility in that boy. He did n't tell you what he wanted to
                        speak to me about? That's better yet. I imagine his brother is
                        n't so shy about publishing his good works before
                        men."
                    Kirkwood's eyes sought the roses. The "attentions"
                        Phil was receiving had roused in him the mixed bewilderment and awe with
                        which a father realizes that he has on his hands a daughter upon whom other
                        men have begun to look covetously. Half a dozen young fellows were dancing
                             attendance upon Phil. In the hotel and at
                        the theater in Indianapolis men and women had paid her the tribute of a
                        second glance, and Mrs. Fitch had been enthusiastic about her. His tolerant
                        spirit had not visited upon the young Holtons the sins of their uncle.
                        Charles's devotion to Phil had rather amused him; he had taken it
                        as an oblique compliment to himself, assuming that it was due to anxiety on
                        Charles's part to ingratiate himself with Phil's father
                        quite as much as with Phil.
                    "I suppose what Fred meant was a little matter between us in the
                        traction business. You know that farm he settled on next to Amzi's?
                        He's turned it over to me."
                    "You mean he does n't own it any more?" asked
                        Phil.
                    "Strictly speaking, no. In the general Holton mess he thought he
                        ought to surrender the property. Rather quixotic, but creditable to the boy.
                        You see Charlie was executor of their father's estate.
                        Charlie's beyond doubt a very smooth young person. And no end
                        plausible. He got Fred to take that farm in settlement of all claims against
                        Samuel's estate. And when Fred found out there was trouble over his
                        father's financiering of the Sycamore he hopped on the trolley and
                        came to the city and turned over the farm to me as trustee. He seemed no end
                        grateful to me for allowing him to do it."
                    "But you did n't let himit is n't fair! Why the
                        farm's no good anyhow! And besides, Charlie would n't have
                        done Fred an injury. He talked to me the other day at his aunt's
                        skating-party about all that traction business and I'm sure he
                        never meant any harm. He could n't help what his father did. But to
                        take Fred's farm awaywhy, daddy, that would be the supreme grand
                        limite!"
                    Kirkwood laughed and pinched her chin.
                    "What a terrible young person you are! You seem to forget that
                        I'm not the Holtons' attorney. I'm hired by the
                        poor innocents who bought Sam Holton's bonds, and it's my
                        business to get all the money for them I can. Charles's tricks with
                        his father's estate only figure incidentally, but  they have a dark look. It's merely a
                        case of the sins of the parents being visited upon the
                        children"
                    He had been speaking half-carelessly, not really heeding what he said, and he
                        arrested himself with an impatient shrug of the shoulders. The visitation of
                        a parent's sins upon children was not a subject for discussion in
                        that household, as Phil realized with a poignancy born of her
                        morning's adventure. Kirkwood was instantly contrite as he saw
                        tears in Phil's eyes. He would not for worlds have wounded her. It
                        was impossible for him to know how in her new sensitiveness this careless
                        speech, which a day earlier would have passed unheeded, aroused all her
                        instincts of defense. She was half-aware of the irony by which their talk
                        about the nephews of Jack Holton had carried them with so fateful a
                        directness to her mother.
                    Kirkwood frowned. His former wife was of all subjects the most ungrateful on
                        this Christmas day. The old wounds had healed absolutely and the scars even
                        had vanished in his new hope and happiness. He did not mean to have his day
                        spoiled. He crossed the room to the window where Phil stood pulling idly at
                        a withered geranium leaf. He drew her round and kissed her.
                    "Forgive me, dear old Phil! I would n't hurt you for ten
                        thousand kingdoms. And I did n't mean that. I don't think
                        it; moreover, I don't believe in that philosophy."
                    His contrition was unmistakedly sincere; yet she knew that if he had not
                        obliterated the thought of her mother from his mind he would not have let
                        slip that reference to parental sins. His forgetfulness was worse than the
                        offense itself.
                    She experienced a sensation, new in all their intercourse, of wanting to hurt
                        him. This was, in all kindness and charity, the instant for announcing her
                        mother's return; and yet before making that disclosure Phil meant
                        to force him to tell her in so many words that he was engaged to marry Nan.
                        This was the most astonishing of all Phil's crowding experiences of
                        the day, that she harbored with cruel satisfaction  the thought of inflicting pain upon her fatherher old comrade,
                        with whom she had so joyfully camped and tramped and lived so many happy
                        days in this little house, where now for the first time shadows danced
                        malevolently.
                    "I wanted this to be a happy day, Phil. What do we care about the
                        Holtons or Sycamore Traction! Charlie and Fred are all right, and I must say
                        that I've been a good deal pleased by the attitude of both the
                        young fellows. But I have something to tell you; something you've
                        been prepared for for a long time in that wise, old head of yours.
                        It's made me the happiest man in the world; and I hope it will make
                        you almost as happy. And I believe it's for your good; that
                        it's going to be a great big factor in working out all your
                        problems and mine! Come now, forgive me, and tell me whether you want three
                        guesses as to what it is!"
                    He rested the tips of his fingers on her shoulders, standing off and looking
                        at her with all the old fondness in his eyes. He had spoken buoyantly; his
                        manner was that of a young man about to confide a love affair to a
                        sympathetic sister.
                    Phil slipped from under his hands and stood rigid, with her back against the
                        geranium box. She swallowed a sob and lifted her head to meet the blow. He
                        would not have it thus, but caught her hands and swung them in a tight
                        clasp.
                    "It's Nan, Phil, dear: Nan's promised to marry me!
                        She's been saying she never would. It was only last night she
                        agreed to take this poor old wreck and try to make a man of me. We meant to
                        tell you to-day if Fred Holton had n't come in, and then the girls
                        had to run. But nobody is to know for a month yet; we mean to be married at
                        Easter. That last point we fixed up just now in the library. You see what a
                        lot of things can happen right here in dear old Montgomery within
                        twenty-four hours."
                    He waited for one of her characteristic Philesque outbursts one of the
                        tumultuous mussings with which she celebrated her happy surprises. Nothing
                        was needed to complete his joy but Phil's approval, about which he
                        had never had the  slightest question. In his
                        last talk with Nan on Christmas Eve they had discussed Phil and the effect
                        of their marriage upon her rather more than upon themselves. And he had now
                        exhausted himself upon the announcement; there was nothing more that he
                        could say. Phil's hands were cold in his, and with an almost
                        imperceptible pressure she was thrusting him away from her. Two great tears
                        welled in her eyes and stole down her cheeks.
                    "Why, Phil! I thought youyou of all people in the
                        world"
                    "Mamma has come back!" said Phil colorlessly; and repeated,
                        "mamma has come back. She is at Uncle Amy's, and I have
                        seen her."
                    There was silence for a little space while he stared at her. Their eyes met
                        in a long gaze. He grew suddenly white and she felt the trembling of his
                        hands.
                    "O God, no!" he said hoarsely. "You don't
                        mean that, Phil. This is a jokenot here; not in Montgomery! She would never
                        do that. Come, you must n't trifle with me;
                        it'sit's too horrible."
                    His voice sank to a whisper with his last word. The word and his tone in
                        uttering it had not expressed the full sense of the horror that was in his
                        face.
                    "It is true, daddy," she said softly, kindly. "I
                        have seen her; I have talked with her."
                    "You saw her at Amzi's?" he asked dully.
                    "Yes; she came last night. I did n't know it until I got to
                        the house this morning. They were all there, and when I went in they tried
                        to send me off; they thought I ought n't to see her."
                    "There was a scene, then; they were ugly about it?"
                    "They tried to be; but it did n't go!"
                    He noted the faltering triumph of her tone and looked at her more
                        closely.
                    "They wanted her to go and she held her ground against
                        them?"
                    "I held it with her," said Phil.
                    
                    "You did n't think she should go; was that it,
                        Phil?"
                    "I did n't think she should be treated like a
                        dog!"
                    Phil drew away, with her head held high, her fists tightly clenched. Kirkwood
                        walked slowly across the room thrice while she stood immovable. He recalled
                        her presence in a moment and remarked absently:
                    "Amzi should have told me. It was n't fair for him to do
                        this. If I had known last night that she was here"
                    He broke off with a groan. The resigned, indifferent air he had lately flung
                        off possessed him again, and seeing it the pity stole back into her heart.
                        She moved about, avoiding him, fearful of meeting again that hurt, wounded
                        look in his eyes. The short day was drawing to an end, and the shadows
                        deepened. He was mechanically lighting his pipe, and she crouched in her
                        favorite seat by the fire.
                    "It's a little tough, Phil," he said finally with
                        a revival of courage, pausing in his slow, aimless wandering through the
                        rooms. "It's a little tough after so long, and now."
                    She could not controvert this; she merely waited to see what further he had
                        to say. He paused presently, his arm on the mantel-shelf, his fingers
                        nervously playing with his pipe.
                    "What is she like, Phil?"
                    "Oh, she is lovely! She is the most charming woman that ever
                        lived!"
                    "You liked her, then; she was nice to you?"
                    "She is dear and sweet and wonderful! Oh, I did n't know
                        she would be like that!"
                    His eyes opened and shut quickly. There was an implied accusation against him
                        in the fervor of her admiration for the wife who had deserted him. He groped
                        for something in self-justification with which to confute Lois
                        Montgomery's daughter.
                    "You found her what you would like your mother to be, you did
                        n't think her hard or cruel?"
                    "No."
                    "You would n't have thought her a woman who would  desert a husband and a helpless baby and run
                        away with another man?"
                    There was silence in the room. He had mercilessly condensed the case against
                        Lois Montgomery, reducing it to its harshest terms for Phil's
                        contemplation. It was in Phil's mind that she had nothing to do
                        with those things; that the woman against whose cheek she had laid her own
                        was not Thomas Kirkwood's recreant wife, but another and very
                        different person. She did not know how to express this; it seemed
                        preposterous to insist to her father that his former wife was not the same
                        woman that she had held speech with that day.
                    "I can't talk about her in that way, daddy. I
                        can't tell you just how I feel. But it seemed so wonderful, when I
                        went into the house, and those horrible creatures were circling round her
                        like wolves, that we understood each other, she and I, without a word being
                        said! And I hated them all, except dear old Amy. They all went home and Amy
                        went off and left us alone, and we talked just as though we had been old
                        friends."
                    She ceased as though to attempt to describe it would be profanation.
                    "What did she sayabout me?" he asked blindly.
                    "Oh, she did n't talk about you at all! It was n't
                        that kind of talknot about what she had donenot even about what she meant to
                        do! She is so young! She is just like a girl! And she speaks so charmingly,
                        with the loveliest voice. It's like the way the water ripples round
                        the big boulders at The Run."
                    "She had n't anything to say about her going off? I
                        don't quite believe you mean that, Phil."
                    "That's exactly the truth, daddy"; and there was
                        grieved surprise in her tone. "Why, she is n't like that;
                        she would n't ever say anything to hurt any one. I have
                        n't words to tell you about her, because there was never any one
                        like her. She is all sunniness and sweetness. And she's the most
                        amusing person I ever saw,ever so droll and funny!"
                    
                    Phil's refusal or inability to see her mother in robes of sin
                        irritated Kirkwood. For Phil to call her an amusing person was sheer
                        childish na$iUvet$eA. Phil was the victim of an infatuation which he could
                        understand now that his wife began to live again in his imagination. He had
                        read in books that the maternal instinct will assert itself after long
                        separations, where mother and child are without other clue than that of the
                        mysterious filial and maternal tie to guide them; but his practical sense
                        rejected the idea. If he had been warned of Lois's unaccountable
                        return, he might have fortified Phil against her charms, but now it was too
                        late. Lois was Phil's mother. Shocked as he was by this termination
                        of his Christmas-Day happiness, his nature revolted against any attempt to
                        shatter Phil's new idol. The fact that Lois had sinned as much
                        against Phil as against himself was not something that he could urge now
                        that Phil had taken her stand. The thought of Lois brought before him not
                        only the unhappy past, but she seemed, with the cruelest calculation, to
                        have planted herself in the path of his happy future.
                    He was intent upon a situation that called for immediate handling. He tried
                        to bring the scattered dim stars in this new firmament to focus. He might go
                        to Nan and endeavor to minimize the effects of Lois's return,
                        urging that if she wished to spend the rest of her life in Montgomery it was
                        her affair, and had nothing whatever to do with her former husband or the
                        woman he meant to marry. This was a sane, reasonable view of the situation;
                        but its sanity and reasonableness were not likely to impress Nan Bartlett.
                        Such an event as the sudden return of Lois would pass into local history as
                        a great sensation. Jack Holton's reappearance only a few weeks
                        earlier had caused his fellow-townsmen to attack the old scandal with the
                        avidity of a dog unearthing a neglected bone; and the return of the woman in
                        the case could hardly fail to prove far more provocative of gossip. If Lois
                        persisted in remaining in Montgomery, it was wholly unlikely that Nan would
                        ever marry him; nor could he with any delicacy insist upon her doing so.
                        They  might marry and move to Indianapolis,
                        thereby escaping the discomforts of the smaller town's criticism;
                        and this was made possible by his brightening prospects. At any rate, it was
                        only fair to go to Nan at once and lay the matter before her. Even now the
                        news might have reached her; news spreads quickly in the world's
                        compact Montgomerys.
                    Phil aroused herself as she heard him fumbling for his coat at the hall-rack.
                        She found a match and lighted the gas.
                    "Going out, daddy?" she asked in something like her usual
                        tone.
                    He looked at her vaguely as he drew on his coat, as though trying to
                        understand what she had said.
                    "Well, you'll be back for supper. There'll be the
                        usual holiday-cold-turkey supper, daddy."
                    "Yes, Phil; I'll be back after while. I'm going
                        for a tramp."
                    But she knew that he had gone to see Nan.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVIII
                    AMZI IS FLABBERGASTED
                    STRUBY'S drug-store did a large business in hot
                        drinks in the week following Christmas, as citizens and citizenesses met to
                        discuss the return of Lois Montgomery. The annual choir-row in Center Church
                        caused scarcely a ripple; the county poorhouse burned to the ground, and
                        nobody cared particularly; an august professor in the college was laid low
                        with whooping-cough, and even this calamity failed to tickle the community
                        as it would have done in ordinary circumstances.
                    Wonder and mystery were in the air of Main Street. Persons who had no money
                        in Montgomery's Bank, and whom the liveliest imagination could not
                        dramatize as borrowers from that institution, dropped in casually on
                        fictitious errands, in the hope of seeing or hearing something. Housewives
                        who lived beyond the college, or over in the new bungalow addition across
                        the Monon tracks, who had no business whatever in the neighborhood of the
                        old Montgomery place, made flimsy excuses for visiting that region in the
                        hope of catching a glimpse of a certain lady who, after a long absence, had
                        reappeared in town with bewildering suddenness. What Amzi had said to his
                        sisters Kate, Josie, and Fanny and what they had said to him, and what Mrs.
                        Lois Montgomery Holton had said to them all afforded an ample field for
                        comment where facts were known; and where there were no facts, speculation
                        and invention rioted outrageously. Had Tom Kirkwood seen his former wife?
                        Would Phil break with her father and go to live at Amzi's with her
                        mother? Was it true that Lois had come back to Indiana in the hope of
                        effecting a reconciliation with Jack Holton, of whom  unpleasant reports were now reaching Montgomery from the state
                        capital? An intelligent community possessed of a healthy curiosity must be
                        pardoned for polishing its spectacles when a drama so exciting and
                        presenting so many characters is being disclosed upon its stage.
                    It was said that Mrs. Holton emerged from Amzi's house daily to take
                        the air. She had been observed by credible witnesses at the stamp window of
                        the post-office; again, she had bought violets at the florist's;
                        she had been seen walking across the Madison campus. The attendants in the
                        new Carnegie library had been thrilled by a visit from a strange lady who
                        could have been none other than Mrs. Holton.
                    At four o'clock on the afternoon of January 2, Mrs. Holton drank a
                        cup of bouillon at Struby's counter, informed the white-jacketed
                        attendant that it was excellent, and crossed Main Street to
                        Montgomery's Bank under the admiring eyes of a dozen young
                        collegians who happened to be loafing in the drug-store. Amzi escorted his
                        sister at once to his private room at the rear, poked the fire, buttoned his
                        coat and sat down.
                    "Well, Lois, how goes it?"
                    His question was the one he habitually asked his customers, and he had no
                        idea that anything of importance had happened to his sister since he left
                        her at one o'clock.
                    "The air in the counting-room is bad, Amzi; you ought to put in
                        ventilators. A little fresh air would increase the efficiency of the clerks
                        one hundred per cent," she remarked, tossing her muff and a package
                        on the table. It was a solid package that fell with a bang.
                    "Then they'd want more pay. You've got another
                        guess coming."
                    "No. You'd cut down their wages because they worked less
                        time."
                    He rubbed his head and chuckled. It was plainly written on his face that he
                        was immensely fond of her, that her presence in the dim, dingy old room gave
                        him pleasure.  He clasped his hands behind his
                        head to emphasize his comfort.
                    "I passed Center Church on my way down just as my perfectly good
                        sisters three were entering the side door. The Presbyterians have
                        n't set up a confessional, have they?"
                    "Lemme see. I guess this is the afternoon they sew for the heathen.
                        No. This is Tuesday. Pastor's Aid Society. Caught 'em in
                        the act, did you?"
                    "I suppose I did. They bowed and I bowed. When I got to the corner I
                        turned round to take a look at the steeple and they were inspecting my
                        clothes. They're rather funny human beings, those sisters of ours.
                        How do you suppose they ever happened anyhow? How do you suppose they came
                        to be so good and you and I so naughty? I mention your naughtiness, Amzi,
                        just to keep from being so lonesome."
                    "Thunder!" he puffed, evidently rejoicing in the wickedness
                        she conferred upon him.
                    "I came to talk business a little, Amzi. Did n't want to do
                        it at the house. In fact, I'm out of money; broke; busted. I bought
                        a cup of soup at the drug-store over the way and left my last dime on the
                        counter."
                    He rubbed his pink pate and cleared his throat. He was not surprised; he had
                        expected her to be broke. Several times in the week that had passed since
                        her return, he had thought of broaching the subject of money, but had
                        refrained. Lois could have anything he had; that was his feeling about it;
                        and no doubt when she needed money she would ask for it. His other sisters
                        had never hesitated.
                    "Just say how much, Lois."
                    His tone was reassuring. The others had bled him for years; he had kept an
                        account of his "advances," as they called them, in a
                        pass-book, and within a few days he had credited Lois with an amount equal
                        to the total of these sums. It was approximately this amount that he had
                        tried to bestow upon Phil the previous fall when that unreasonable young
                        person had scorned it.
                    
                    Lois had not answered him. Her face wore a look of abstraction and she
                        compressed her lips poutingly. He had found her increasingly interesting and
                        amusing as the days passed. The subjects she discussed in their long
                        evenings together were as various as her costumes. She was always cheery,
                        always a delight to his admiring eyes. Now that she needed money she would
                        be sure to ask for it in her own charming fashion.
                    "Speak up; don't be afraid. The sooner we fix it the
                        quicker we can forget it," he added kindly.
                    "I was just wondering how to divide things around a
                        little," she replied.
                    "Divide how? Among your creditors?"
                    "Creditors? Bless your silly head, Amzi, I have n't any
                        creditors!"
                    "I thought you said you were broke."
                    "Oh, I believe I did," she replied, still only
                        half-attentive to what he said, and apparently not particularly interested
                        in explaining herself. She reached for a pad and made rapid calculations. He
                        lighted a cigar and watched her gloved hand dancing over the paper. The
                        package she had tossed on the table was much bewaxed and sealed.
                        "When I said I was broke, I meant that I had n't any money
                        in my pocket. I want to open an account here so I can cash a check. I
                        suppose you have n't any prejudices against accepting small
                        deposits?"
                    "No prejudices exactly, Lois; but it's so long since any
                        member of the family came into this bank without wanting to make a touch
                        that I'm likely to drop dead."
                    She laughed, drew out her purse, and extracted three closely folded slips of
                        crisp paper, took up a pen and scratched her name across the back of
                        each.
                    "There," she said, "consider these on deposit and
                        give me a check-book."
                    He ran the drafts through his fingers, reading the amounts, and from force of
                        habit compared the indorsement with the name on the face. He smoothed them
                        out on the table and  laid a weight on them.
                        He looked at the end of his cigar, then at her. Of the three bills of
                        exchange on New York, one was for ten thousand dollars, issued by a Seattle
                        bank; another was for fifteen thousand, issued by a San Francisco house, and
                        the third was a certified check for seven thousand and some odd dollars and
                        cents. Something over thirty-two thousand dollars!
                    He unconsciously adopted with her something of his way with Phil. He would
                        not express surprise at the magnitude of the sum she had so indifferently
                        fished out of her purse, but rather treat the matter as though he had been
                        prepared for it. The joke of itthat Lois should have come back with money,
                        when her sisters certainly, and the rest of the community probably, assumed
                        that her return to Montgomery meant nothing more or less than the collapse
                        of her fortunesthis was a joke so delicious, so stupendous, that his
                        enjoyment of it dulled the edge of his curiosity as to the history the fact
                        concealed. She had n't even taken off her gloves to write her name
                        on the drafts! There were depositors who had shown more emotion over
                        confiding one hundred dollars to his care than she had displayed in writing
                        her name on the books as his largest individual depositor. He wanted to
                        giggle; it was the funniest thing that had ever happened. He remarked
                        casually,
                    "Got a gold mine, Lois?"
                    He was so full of the joy of it that he gasped at her reply.
                    "How did you know?" she asked sharply.
                    "I did n't."
                    "I thought not. Nobody knows. And nobody need know. Just between
                        ourselvesall this."
                    He nodded. She was an amazing creature, this sister! The joke grew. He hoped
                        she would delay and prolong her revelations, that he might miss nothing of
                        their humor.
                    "Nevada," she remarked sententiously.
                    "Ground floor?"
                    "Something like that."
                    
                    She pushed toward him the pad with her calculations. They read thus:
                    
                        
                            Seattle R. E.
                            175,000
                            (about)
                        
                        
                            Broken Axe (Gov't
                                3's)
                            250,000
                            
                        
                        
                            A. T. & S. F. bonds
                            20,000
                            
                        
                        
                            Phoenix Lumber
                            75,000
                            
                        
                        
                            Other securities
                            100,000
                            (maybe)
                        
                    
                    His jaw fell and he gulped when he tried to speak. Even Amzi could not joke
                        about half a million dollars.
                    "Thunder! You must be fooling, Lois."
                    "I may be fooled about some of that stuff, but those figures are
                        supposed to be conservative by people who ought to know."
                    "Lord! you 're a rich woman, Lois," he remarked
                        with awe. "It's flabbergasting!"
                    "Oh, I have n't done so badly. You'd probably like
                        to know how it came about, and I might as well tell you the whole story.
                        Jack was an awful fizzleabsolutely no good. I saw that early in the game,
                        and I knew where I 'd bring up if I did n't look out for
                        myself. He began nibbling like a hungry rat at my share of father's
                        estate as soon as you sent it to me. I backed him in half a dozen things he
                        wanted to go into. He had n't the business sense of a baby, and I
                        began to see that I was going to bump my head good and hard if I did
                        n't look sharp. He began to cheer himself during his failures by
                        getting drunk, which was n't exactly pretty. He went his way and I
                        went mine, and as he lied to me about everything I began to lie to him about
                        my money. I made some friends, and one of these happened to be the wife of a
                        banker with brains. Through him I made some small turns in real estate,
                        covering them up so Jack would n't know. The fifth year after I
                        left here I made twenty thousand dollars in one turn. Then I grub-staked two
                        young fellows who wanted to try their luck in Nevadanice college boys, all
                        on the square. I invested about two thousand dollars in those youngsters,
                        and as a result got into Broken Axe. It was so good that it scared me, and I
                        sold out for the two hundred  and fifty
                        thousand you see on the slip there, and bought Government bonds with it. My
                        banker covered all these things up for me as long as I had Jack on my hands.
                        When he became intolerable I got rid of him, legally, for fear he'd
                        cause trouble if he found what I 'd been doing. I 'm a
                        little tired of running my own business now and mean to dump it off on you
                        if you don't mind. I left my papers in a safety vault in Chicago,
                        but here's my Phoenix Lumber and a jumble of miscellaneous junk I
                        want to send West to be sold so I can put it into things around here. I
                        'm not going back there any more."
                    "Lord!" he ejaculated, rubbing his head. "You made
                        all that money yourself?"
                    "Sheer luck, mostly. But it is n't so bad, take it all
                        round. By the way, in that junk there are some Sycamore Traction bonds I
                        took off the bank's hands out there. They were carrying them as
                        collateral for a man Sam Holton stung on one of his Western trips.
                        He'd planted all he could in New York and had to try a new field.
                        The bank foreclosed on the bonds and I bought twenty of them at sixty-five.
                        I suppose from what I hear that they 're not good for much but
                        kindling."
                    "You got 'em at sixty-five, Lois?"
                    "The bank only lent on them at that, and there was no market for
                        them out there. What's going to become of that road?"
                    Amzi glanced toward the empty counting-room where a single clerk was sealing
                        the mail.
                    "Tom's trying to save it. And I've been buying
                        those things myself at seventy."
                    "You think it's a good buy at that? Going to clean up
                        something out of it?"
                    Amzi flushed, and moved uneasily in his seat.
                    "No. That's not just the way of it. I don't want
                        to make any money out of it; neither does Tom. We're trying to
                        protect the honest people around here at home who put their money into that
                        scheme. Sam and Bill Holton made a big  play
                        for small investors, and a lot of people put their savings into itthe kind
                        o' folks who scrimp to save a dollar a week. Tom's trying
                        to sift out the truth about the building
                    
                    She gave him her quick, radiant smile.
                    He nodded gravely.
                    "All right, Lois. I'll remember that. And I'll
                        tell you something else, now that we're on business matters. The
                        First National Bank over the way there is built up in the air too high;
                        it's got all the weaknesses of the Holton family showy without any
                        real bottom to it. Some of their stock has always been owned around through
                        the statequite a bunch of itand Bill has had to sell part of his own
                        holdings lately; he's got only a scant majority. I've been
                        picking up a little myself, on the quiet. After Tom gets through with the
                        Holtons, I doubt if Bill's going to be able to hold on. I know his
                        line of customers; I guess I could tell you about every piece of paper
                        he's got. It's a poor line, wobbly and uncertain. There
                        was a new examiner here not long ago and he stayed in town two or three days
                        when he usually cleans up in a day. Banking is a business, Lois, not a
                        pastime, and Bill is n't a banker; he's a promoter. Do you
                        get the idea?"
                    "I think I see the point, but if his bank's going to smash,
                        why don't you keep away from it? There's a double
                        liability on national bank stock, is n't there? Seems to me
                        that's the reason I never bought any."
                    "Right, Lois; but I don't intend the First shall bust. It
                        won't do me or my bank or the town any good to have it go to smash.
                        A town of the size of this don't live down a bank failure in one
                        generation. It soaks clear in. I've got enough now to assert my
                        rights as a stockholder, only I'm keeping under cover;
                        there's no use in screaming in the newspapers. I have n't
                        anything against Bill Holton, and if he pulls through, all right; but if he
                        can'twell, I've never wanted to nationalize this bank, but
                        that would be one way of doing it."
                    "You seem to be full of large thoughts, brother. You may play with
                        my money all you like in your charitable games, with a few reservations. I
                        like to eat and I don't want to spend my old age in the poorhouse.
                        There's cash enough here to run me for some time and you can use
                        half of that  in any way you like.
                        I'll take any chance you do, and you'll find I
                        won't cry if the boiler bursts. My Seattle real estate is all
                        rightand I mean to hold fast to it. Now I want to do something for Phil; I
                        want to make sure she never comes to want. That's only right, you
                        know."
                    She waited for his affirmation.
                    "You ought to do it, Lois," he said. "I mean to do
                        the right thing by her myself. If I should die to-night, Phil would be taken
                        care of."
                    "That's like you, Amzi, but it is n't necessary. I
                        want to set aside one hundred thousand for Phil. I'd like to make a
                        trust fund of it, and let her have the income from now on, and turn over the
                        principal when she's thirty, say. How does that strike
                        you?"
                    "It's splendid, Lois. By George, it's
                        grand!"
                    He blew his nose violently and wiped his eyes. And then his humor was touched
                        again. Phil, the long-unmothered, the Main Street romp, the despair of
                        sighing aunts, coming in for a hundred thousand dollars! And from the mother
                        whom those intolerant, snobbish sisters had execrated. He was grateful that
                        he had lived to see this day.
                    "You've been fine to Phil, and I appreciate it, Amzi.
                        She's told me all about it; the money you offered her and all that;
                        and how you've stood by her. Those dear sisters of mine have
                        undoubtedly worked me hard as an awful example. If they had n't
                        painted me so black, the dear beautiful child would n't have warmed
                        to me as she has."
                    "If the girls knew you had all that money, Lois, it would brace
                        'em up a good deal. It's a funny thing about this funny
                        old world, how the scarletest sins fade away into pale pink at the jingle of
                        money."
                    This bit of philosophy seemed not to interest her; she was thinking of
                        something else, humming softly. Her sins were evidently so little in her
                        mind that she paid no heed to his remark or the confusion that covered him
                        when he realized that he had been guilty of a tactless and ungracious
                        speech.
                    
                    "Mrs. King called on me this afternoon, the dear old
                        soul."
                    "You don't say!"
                    "I do, indeed. She put on her best clothes and drove up in the old
                        family chariot. She has n't changed a bit."
                    Amzi sat pigeon-toed. Mrs. John Newman King, whose husband had been United
                        States Senator and who still paid an annual visit to Washington, where the
                        newspapers interviewed her as to her recollections of Lincoln, was given to
                        frank, blunt speech as Amzi well knew. It was wholly possible that she had
                        called on Lois to administer a gratuitous chastisement, and if she had done
                        so, all Montgomery would know of it.
                    "Don't worry! She was as nice as pie. Josie had kindly gone
                        to see her to tell her the 'family' had warned me away;
                        the 'family' wanted her to know, you know. Did
                        n't want an old and valued friend like the widow of John Newman
                        King to think the good members of the House of Montgomery meant to overlook
                        my wickedness. Not a bit of it! You can hear Josie going on. She evidently
                        laid it on so thick it made the old lady hot. When she came in, she took me
                        by both hands and said, 'You silly little fool, so you've
                        come back.' Then she kissed me. And I cried, being a silly little
                        fool, just as she said. And she did n't say another word about what
                        I'd done or had n't done, but began talking about her trip
                        abroad in 1872, when she saw it all, she saysthe Nile and everything. She
                        swung around to Phil and told me a lot of funny stories about her. She
                        talked about Tom and you before she left; said she'd never made out
                        how you and Tom meant to divide up the Bartlett girls; seems to be bent on
                        marrying you both into the family."
                    "Thunder!" he exploded. This unaccountable sister had the
                        most amazing way of setting a target to jingling and then calmly walking
                        off. The thought of her husband's marrying again evidently gave her
                        no concern whatever.
                    "Not nice of you to be keeping your own prospects a dark secret when
                        I'm living under the same roof with you. Out with it."
                    
                    "Don't be foolish, Lois."
                    "But why don't you be a good brother and 'fess up?
                        As I remember they're both nice womenquite charming and fine. I
                        should think you'd take your pick first, and then let Tom have
                        what's left. You deserve well of the world, and time flies.
                        Don't you let my coming back here interfere with your plans.
                        I'm not in your way. If you think I'm back on your hands,
                        and that you can't bring home your bonny bride because I'm
                        in your house, you're dead wrong. You ought to be
                        relieved." She ended by indicating the memorandum of her assets;
                        and then tore it into bits and began pushing them into a little pile on the
                        table.
                    "It must be Rosethe musical one. Phil has told me about the good
                        times you and she and Tom have had in Buckeye Lane. I looked all over the
                        house for your flute and wondered what had become of it; so you keep it
                        there, do youyou absurd brother! Rose plays the piano, you flute, and Tom
                        saws the 'cello, and Nan and Phil are the audience. By the way,
                        Mrs. King mentioned a book Nan Bartlett seems to be responsible
                        for'The Gray Kinght of Picardy.' Everybody was reading it
                        on the train when I came out, but I did n't know it was a
                        Montgomery production. Another Hoosier author for the hall of fame! It comes
                        back to me that Nan always was rather different quiet and literary. I
                        don't doubt that she would be a splendid woman for Tom to
                        marry."
                    "I don't know anything about it," said Amzi.
                    "Humph!" She flung the scraps of paper into the air and
                        watched them fall about him in a brief snowstorm. She seemed to enjoy his
                        discomfiture at the mention of the Bartletts. "Let's not
                        be silly, you dear, delightful, elusive brother! If you want to marry, go
                        ahead; the sooner the better. And if Tom wants to try again, I'll
                        wish him the best luck in the worldthe Lord knows I ought to! I suppose
                        it's nan, the literary one, he's interested in. She writes
                        for the funny papers; Phil told me that; and if she's done a book
                        that people read on trains, she'll make money  out of it. And Tom's literary; I always had an idea
                        he'd go in for writing sometime."
                    She mused a moment while Amzi mopped his head. He found it difficult to dance
                        to the different tunes she piped. He would have given his body to be burned
                        before referring to the possibility of Tom's marrying again; and
                        yet Lois broached the subject without embarrassment. Nothing, in fact,
                        embarrassed her. He knew a great banker in Chicago who made a point of never
                        allowing any papers to lie on his desk; who disposed of everything as it
                        came; and Lois reminded him of that man. There was no unfinished business on
                        her table, no litter of memories to gather dust! He not only loved her as a
                        sister, but her personality fascinated him.
                    "They've been good to Tom; and they've been
                        perfectly bully to Phil. They're fine women," he said.
                        "But as to whether Tom means to marry, I don't know; I
                        honestly don't."
                    "Tut! You need n't be so solemn about it. I intend to see
                        that you get married. If you wait much longer, some widow will come along
                        and marry you for your moneya poor shrimp of a woman with a lot of anaemic
                        children to worry you into your grave. And as for Tom, the quicker the
                        better. I wonder"
                    He waited while she wondered. She had an exceedingly pretty way of
                        wondering.
                    "I wonder," she finished briskly, as though chagrined that
                        she had n't thought of it before"I wonder if I ought
                        n't to tell Tom so!"
                    The "Thunder!" died in his throat at the appalling
                        suggestion.
                    "O Lord, no!" he cried hoarsely.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIX
                    PHIL MOVES TO AMZI'S
                    WHEN he had recovered from the first shock of his
                        wife's return, Kirkwood adjusted himself to the new order of things
                        in a philosophic temper. Nan had withdrawn absolutely her day-old promise to
                        marry him. That episode in his life was ended. He felt the nobility of her
                        attitude without wholly accepting its conclusions. He had tried to persuade
                        her that the geopgraphy of the matter had nothing to do with it; that having
                        promised to marry him when they believed Lois to be safely out of the way,
                        her return did not affect their status in the least. This was the flimsiest
                        casuistry, as he well knew. It made a tremendous difference where Lois
                        was!
                    "I have to go away to-morrow, Phil, and I'm likely to be in
                        Indianapolis much of the time until spring. I can't take you with
                        me very well; a hotel is no place for you, and I shall be very busy. And I
                        can't leave you here alone, you know."
                    His tone was kind; he always meant to be kind, this dear father of hers! He
                        hurried on with an even greater thoughtfulness to anticipate a solution of
                        this problem which had occurred to her instantly, but which she lacked the
                        courage to suggest.
                    "I saw your Uncle Amzi to-day and had a long talk with him about
                        you. I proposed that you go to his house and stay, at least until I get
                        through my work with the Sycamore Company. We won't make any
                        definite date for your return, for the reason that I don't just
                        know when I'll be free to settle down here again. Amzi was
                        perfectly agreeable to the ideaquite splendid about it, in fact. Your
                        mother, it seems, means to stay with him. And now there's this
                        further thing, Phil. You won't mind my going into it a little bit,
                             once and for all. The law gave you to me
                        long ago, but apart from that I suppose I have a certain moral claim to you.
                        But I want you to feel free to do as you like where your mother's
                        concerned. What I said of her yesterday I'm sorry for; I should
                        n't have done that if I'd been myself. And I'm
                        not making it necessary for you to make a choice between us. We're
                        old comrades, you and I, Phil, and there can't be any shadow of a
                        difference between us, now or ever. It's the simplest and easiest
                        thing for you to go to your uncle's house, and we won't
                        even consider the fact that your mother is there; we'll just assume
                        that her being there is the most natural thing in the world, and that
                        it's a matter of our common convenience for you to be there, too.
                        You see how perfectly easy and natural it all comes about."
                    She clung to him, the tears welling. She had never been disappointed in him,
                        and this generosity moved her deeply. He was making it easy for her to go to
                        her mother; that was all. Her soul rebelled against the fate that made
                        necessary any choice when her father was so gentle, so wise, so kind, and
                        her mother so transcendently charming and lovable.
                    "You are so good to me; you have always been so good!" she
                        sobbed. "And I'm sorry I was ugly yesterday, about Nan.
                        You know I love Nan. No one was ever kinder to me than Nanhardly you, even!
                        And I don't want you to give her up; you need each other; you do
                        understand each other! Oh, everything is so queer and wrong!"
                    "No, Phil; things are not as queer and wrong as they look.
                        Don't get that idea into your head. Life is n't queer or
                        wrong; life simply is n't as easy as it looks, and that's
                        very different."
                    He smiled, turning her face so that she could see that he smiled not
                        unhappily.
                    "But I don't want you to go away; I'd die if I
                        thought I should n't see you any moreand all the good times
                        we've had, right here in this old houseand everything"
                    "But this is n't the end of things. When I'm back,
                        as I  shall be for a day or two frequently,
                        I'll always let you know; or you can run over to the city and do a
                        theater with me whenever you like. So let's be cheerful about
                        everything."
                    The passing of her trunk from her father's house to her
                        uncle's was not neglected by the gossips. Her three aunts noted it,
                        and excoriated Kirkwood and Amzi. They took care that every one should know
                        how they felt about the transfer of poor, dear Phil (on whom they had
                        lavished their love and care for years, to the end that she might grow up
                        respectable, etc., etc.) to a roof that sheltered her Jezebel of a
                        mother.
                    "That was nice of him," said Lois, when Phil explained her
                        coming. "How's your father getting on these
                        days?"
                    "Oh, quite well!" Phil replied.
                    She was establishing herself in a room adjoining her mother's. Lois,
                        in a flowered silk kimona, commented upon Phil's clothes as they
                        were hauled from the trunk. Her opinions in the main were touched with her
                        light, glancing irony.
                    "I'll wager Jo bought that walnut-stain effect,"
                        she remarked, pointing an accusing finger at a dark waist. "That
                        has Josephine stamped on it. Poor old soul!"
                    Her manner of speaking of her sister set Phil to giggling. Mrs. Waterman had
                        bought that particular article over Phil's solemn protest, and she
                        now sat on the bed and watched her mother carry the odious thing gingerly by
                        the collar to the door and fling it in the direction of the back stairs.
                    Lois brought from her own room a set of silver toilet articles and
                        distributed them over the top of Phil's bureau.
                    "I forgot all about these, Phil; but they fit in handily right here.
                        A little self-indulgence of my own, but my old ones are good enough. Oh,
                        please don't!" she exclaimed, as Phil began to thank her.
                        "Why should n't you have them? Who has a better right to
                        them, I'd like to know!"
                    Whereupon she began experimenting with the nail-polisher from Phil's
                        set.
                    
                    "This is a good polisher, Phil. I'm going to show you how
                        to do your own manicuringevery lady her own maid. Sarah dug up a colored
                        hairdresser, manicurist, and lightrunning domestic chatterbox this morning,
                        and she gave my hair a pulling I shan't forget in a hurry. Never
                        again! If you can't have a trained maid, you'd better be
                        your own beautifier. I had a wonderful girl the last time I was over, and
                        took her with me on a motor trip through the ch$aCteau country. She was an
                        outrageous little flirt. Two chauffeurs got into a row about her during the
                        week we spent at Tours, and one pounded the other into a pulp. The French
                        rural police are duller than the ox, and they locked up Marie as a witness.
                        Imagine my feelings! It was very annoying."
                    Her smile belied the annoyance. Phil surmised that she had enjoyed the
                        experience; but Lois added no details to her hasty picture. Lois did not
                        trouble herself greatly with details; everything with her was sketchy and
                        impressionistic.
                    "What about boys, Phil?"
                    "I've had one proposal; he was a senior with a funny
                        stammer. He went away with his diploma last June, and said he'd
                        never forget. I got his cards to-day. She's a Lafayette girl he had
                        down for the 'Pan' in his senior year. She has golden
                        hair," Phil added musingly.
                    "The scoundrel; to forget you as quick as that!" And Lois
                        laughed as Phil bent her head and clasped her hands in a mockery of
                        dejection. "You've come out and I suppose you are asked to
                        all the parties. Let me see, when I was a girl there were candy-pullings,
                        and 'companies' where you sat around and were bored until
                        somebody proposed playing 'The Prince of Paris Lost his
                        Hat' or some game like that. When the old folks went to bed, our
                        hostess would find a pack of cardsauthors, most likelyor play a waltz on the
                        soft pedal for two couples to dance. Wholesome but not
                        exciting."
                    "Oh, we're livelier and better than that! They have real
                        balls now at the Masonic Hall; and all the fraternities have  dances, and there's the
                        Pan-Hellenic, and so on. And there are dinners in courses, and bridge no
                        end!"
                    "Bridge!"
                    Lois shrugged her shoulders, lifted her pretty brows, and tossed the
                        nail-polisher on to the bureau to emphasize her contempt for bridge in all
                        its forms.
                    "As to young men, Phil. Tell me all about the Montgomery
                        cavaliers."
                    "Oh, every girl knows all the boys. They are divided into two
                        classes as usual, nice and un-nice. Some of them have flirted with me and I
                        have flirted with them. I suppose there was nothing very naughty in
                        that."
                    "We will pass that for the present. Tell me about the young fellows
                        who pay you attentions."
                    Phil ran over the list, Lois interrupting when some familiar name arrested
                        her attention. Phil hit off one after the other in a few apt phrases. Her
                        mother in a rocking-chair, with arms folded, was more serious than in any of
                        their previous talks. What Phil disclosed was only the social experience of
                        the average country-town girl. The fact that she had made a few
                        acquaintances in Indianapolis interested her mother.
                    "The Fitches? Yes; nice people. That was through your father? All
                        right. Go on."
                    "Well, there are the two Holton boys," said Phil,
                        selfconscious for the first time. "You see, my aunts thought
                        everything ought to be fixed up with the Holtons, and they asked Mr. and
                        Mrs. William to my party, and threw in Charlie and Ethel, and I suggested
                        that they add Fred, too. They are Samuel's children. There being
                        the two brothers it did n't seem nice to leave out one; and I
                        already knew Fred anyhow."
                    "Why this sudden affection of your aunts for the Holtons? there is a
                        reason for everything those creatures do."
                    "Mrs. William is stylish and does things. Her maid wears a cap when
                        she opens the door, and Mrs. William makes her calls in a neat
                        electric."
                    
                    "Everything is explained quite satisfactorily, Phil. Amzi told me
                        our sisters had buried the hatchet, but he did n't put it quite as
                        clearly as you do. He did tell me, though, that Jack had spoiled your
                        beautiful party by turning up drunk. That was nasty, vile," she
                        added, shrugging her shoulders. "Well, about these
                        nephews?"
                    "Charlie is older, and very citified; quite the most dashing man who
                        lightens our horizons. He sends me flowers and bonbons, most expensive. And
                        he's a joy at paying compliments; makes you feel that
                        you're the only one, or tries to. He has very large ideas about
                        business and life generally. But nice, I think, and kind and generous. But,
                        mamma"
                    She paused, disconcerted by a sudden keen look her mother gave her.
                    "He sounds like an agreeable person," remarked Lois,
                        glancing at the point of her slipper.
                    "What I started to say was that if you think I should n't
                        see them any more"
                    "Bless me, no! I see what's in your mind, Phil, but you
                        need n't trouble about that. We're just trying to get
                        acquainted, you and I. We understand each other beautifully, and after while
                        we'll see whether we have any advice for each other. At your age I
                        had n't the sense of a kitten. You're most astonishingly
                        wise; I marvel at you! And you've grown up a nice, sensible girl in
                        spite of your auntsnone of their cattishnessnot a hint of it. I
                        can't tell you how relieved I am to find you just as you are. The
                        way they have cuddled up to the Holtons is diverting, but nothing more.
                        It's what you would have expected of them. The proud and haughty
                        Montgomerys turned snobs! It's frightful to think of it! As for me,
                        I have nothing against the Holtons. I'm this kind of a sinner,
                        Phil: I carry my own load. No shoving it off on anybody else! Some people
                        are born with ideals; I was n't! But I hope to acquire some before
                        I die; we're all entitled to a show at them. But, bless me, what
                        are we talking about? There's the other Holton boy; what's
                        he got to say for himself?"
                    
                    "Oh, he'd never say it if it were left to him!
                        He's shy, modest, proud. No frills."
                    "Handsome?"
                    "Well, he has a nice face," Phil answered, so earnestly
                        that her mother laughed. "And he's modest and genuine and
                        sincere."
                    "Those are good qualities. As near as I can make out, you like all
                        these young men well enoughthe boys you knew in high school and the college
                        boys. And these Holtons have broken into the circle lately, and have shown
                        you small attentionsnothing very important."
                    "Charlie sends me American Beauties, and Fred has brought me quails
                        and a book."
                    "What was the book?"
                    "'The Gray Knight of Picardy.'"
                    "That's Nan Bartlett's?" Lois looked at
                        the palm of her hand carelessly.
                    "Yes; it's a great successthe hit of the
                        season."
                    "I suppose your father and Nan have been good friends literary
                        interests in common, and all that?"
                    "Of course," Phil answered, uncomfortable under this
                        seemingly indifferent questioning.
                    "I have read the story. There are pages in it that are like your
                        father. I suppose, seeing so much of each other, they naturally talked it
                        overa sort of collaboration?"
                    The question required an answer, and Phil shrank from answering. Closeted
                        with her mother she was reluctant to confess how close had been the
                        relationship between her father and Nan Bartlett. Her mind worked quickly.
                        She was outspokenly truthful by habit; but she was a loyal soul, too. She
                        decided that she could answer her mother's question without
                        violating her father's confidence as to his feelings toward Nan.
                        That was all over now; her father had told her so in a word. Lois hummed,
                        picking bits of lint from her skirt while Phil deliberated.
                    "Father did help with it. I suppose he even wrote part of it, but
                        nobody need know that. Daddy does n't mean to go  in for writing; he says the very suspicion
                        that he's literary would hurt him in the law."
                    "I suppose he helped on the book just to get Nan interested. Now
                        that she's launched as a writer, he drops out of the
                        combination."
                    "Something like that. Daddy is very busy, you know."
                    Phil entertained views of her own as to the cause of her father's
                        sudden awakening. She was sure that his interest in Nan was the inspiration
                        of it, quite as much as alarm at the low ebb of his fortunes. In the general
                        confusion into which the world had been plunged, Phil groped in the dark
                        along unfamiliar walls. It was a grim fate that flung her back and forth
                        between father and mother, a shuttle playing across the broken, tangled
                        threads of their lives. She started suddenly as a new thought struck her.
                        Perhaps behind this seemingly inadvertent questioning lay some deeper
                        interest. Suddenly the rose light of romance touched the situation. Phil
                        looked at Lois guardedly. What if? With an accession of feeling she flung
                        herself at her mother's knees and took her hands.
                    "Could you and daddy ever make it up? Could you do that now, after
                        all these years?" she asked earnestly.
                    Lois looked at her absently, with her trick of trying to recall a question
                        not fully comprehended.
                    "Oh, that! Never in this world! What do you think
                        your father's made of?" Again the shrug, so becoming, so
                        expressive, so final! She freed her hands, and drew out and replaced a
                        hairpin. For an instant Phil was dismayed, but once so far afield in
                        dangerous territory she would not retreat.
                    "But what would you say?" she persisted.
                    "Dear Phil, don't think of such a terrible thing; if fairly
                        chills me. Your father is a gentleman; he would n'the would
                        n't do anything so cruel as that!" she said
                        ambiguously.
                    "I don't see how it would be cruel, if he meant itif he
                        wanted to!"
                    "That's because you are an angel and don't know
                        anything about this sad old world of ours. Life is n't like the  story-books, Phil. In a novel a nice dear
                        daughter like you might reconcile her parents with tears and flowers and
                        that sort of thing; but in real life it's very different as you
                        will see when you think of it; only I don't want you to think of it
                        at all. I believe you like me; we hit it off quite wonderfully; and I should
                        expect you to hate me if I ever dreamed of anything so contemptible as
                        spoiling a man's life twice."
                    And remembering Nan, Phil could not argue the matter. She was unable to
                        visualize her father on his knees to her mother. No flimsy net of sentiment
                        flung across the chasm could bring them within hailing distance of each
                        other; they were utterly irreconcilable characters. It was incredible that
                        they had ever pledged themselves to love and cherish each other forever.
                    "Phil, what did your father say about my coming back?"
                        asked Lois abruptly.
                    Phil hesitated. Her mother looked at her keenly in that instant of delay, and
                        then laid her hand gently upon Phil's lips.
                    "No; don't answer that! It is n't a fair question.
                        And now let us forget all these things forever and ever!"
                    She proposed a walk before dinner. "I'll get into my boots
                        and be ready in a minute."
                    Phil heard her whistling as she moved about her room.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XX
                    BACK TO STOP SEVEN
                    CHARLES HOLTON met his brother Fred in
                        the lobby of the Morton House on an afternoon near the end of January.
                        Charles was presenting a buoyant exterior to the world despite a renewal of
                        the disquieting rumors of the fall as to Sycamore Traction and equally
                        disagreeable hints in inner financial and legal circles as to the reopening
                        of Samuel Holton's estate. He resented Fred's meddling in
                        the matter; he was the head of the family and a man of affairs, and he was
                        not pleasantly impressed by the fact that on two occasions to his knowledge
                        Fred had visited Kirkwood at his Indianapolis office.
                    "I want to see you," said Charles. "Why
                        don't you come to see me when you're in the city and save
                        me the trouble of chasing over here?"
                    "Well, Charlie, you've found me now. What is it you
                        want?"
                    "Come up to my room. I don't care to have all Montgomery
                        hear us."
                    When the door closed on them, Charles threw off his overcoat and confronted
                        his brother with a dark countenance.
                    "You're playing the devil with the whole bunch of us do you
                        realize that! You've been sneaking over to Kirkwood to tell him all
                        our family history. You think by playing up to him you'll get a lot
                        of money. If you had any claims against father's estate you ought
                        to have come to me with themnot gone to the man that's trying to
                        pull us all down."
                    "Stop, right where you are! I went to Kirkwood because I felt that
                        the only square thing was to turn the farm over to him until things were
                        straightened out. And after I'd 
                        turned in the farm, you fell over yourself to surrender some stuff you
                        hadthings you'd tried to hide or placed a fake appraisement
                        on."
                    Charles, standing by the window with his hands in his pockets, smiled
                        derisively. Fred's long ulster accentuated his rural appearance. He
                        was a big fellow and his deep voice had boomed with an aggressive note his
                        brother resented.
                    "Don't bawl as though you were driving cattle.
                        There's no need of telling all Main Street our affairs. Do you know
                        what's the matter with youKirkwood's working you!
                        He's trying to scare you with threats of the penitentiary into
                        telling him a lot of stuff about the family. He meant to try it on me, but I
                        beat him to itI told him to go to the bottom of everything. And if
                        you'd kept your mouth shut I'd have taken care of you,
                        too. You took that farm with your eyes open; and I'll say to you
                        right now that you got a better share of the estate than Ethel and I
                        did."
                    "Then you have n't anything to be afraid of. If
                        it's all straight there can't be any trouble. Is this all
                        you wanted?"
                    This was evidently not in the least what Charles wanted, for he changed his
                        tone and the direction of the talk.
                    "You know, Fred, I was in father's confidence very fully. I
                        am older than you, and I was associated with him in his schemes and knew all
                        about them. Father was a very able man; you know that; everybody said he was
                        one of the shrewdest and most farseeing men in the state. I won't
                        say that his methods were always just what they should have been; but
                        he's dead and gone, and it's not for us to jump on him or
                        let anybody else kick him. So far we understand each other, don't
                        we?"
                    "All right; hurry up with the rest of it."
                    "This is not a hurrying matter. I've got to take you into
                        my confidence, and I want it understood that what I say does n't go
                        back to Kirkwood. He's a relentless devil, once he gets started. I
                        suppose it has n't occurred to you that he may have a motive for
                        pursuing usyou and me and any  other Holton he
                        has a chance to injure. You see that point, don't
                        you?"
                    "No. What is it?"
                    "Well, you're duller than I think you are if it has
                        n't occurred to you that Kirkwood is trying to even up with us for
                        the loss of his wife. It was our dear Uncle Jack that ran off with her; it
                        was a Holton that did it! You recollect that, don't
                        you?"
                    "I seem to recall it," replied Fred ironically. He had
                        mechanically drawn out his pipe and was filling it from a canvas bag of
                        cheap tobacco.
                    "And that's all there is to it. Kirkwood had mooned around
                        town here for years, doing nothing. Then suddenly an old friend of his in
                        the East took pity on him and gave him this Sycamore Company to meddle in,
                        and he's contemptible enough to use a law case for personal
                        vengeance against perfectly innocent people. And you walked into the trap
                        like a silly sheep!"
                    "You know you don't believe that, Charlie. Kirkwood is
                        n't that kind of man. He's on the level and high
                        grade."
                    "He may be all that; but he's a human being too.
                        There's no man on earth who'd pass a thing like that. An
                        ignorant, coarse beast would have shot somebody; but an educated man like
                        Kirkwood calculates carefully and sticks the knife in when he sees a chance
                        to make it go clear through. That girl of his is the cutest kid in Indiana,
                        and I would n't do anything to hurt her. But we've got to
                        protect ourselves, you and I, Fred. We're not responsible for Uncle
                        Jack's sins. The whole thing is blistering Kirkwood right now
                        because Uncle Jack's turned up and the lady in the case has had so
                        little decency as to follow him."
                    "I don't suppose she thought of doing anything of the kind.
                        She and Uncle Jack broke long ago. He told me so, in fact, at Indianapolis,
                        and made her cruel abandonment an excuse for borrowing five dollars of
                        me."
                    "Well, we've got to get rid of him!
                        He's doing all he can against us; sending people to Kirkwood with
                        stories about  father, and the traction
                        business. I tell you, Fred," he declared ardently, "our
                        family is in danger of going to hell if you and I don't do
                        something pretty quick to stop it."
                    Fred puffed his pipe and watched his brother fidgeting nervously about the
                        room. A phonograph across the street called attention to a moving-picture
                        show. In the hotel office below, the porter proclaimed the departure of the
                        'bus to connect with the six-three for Peoria and all points
                        West.
                    "There they go now!" exclaimed Charles from the window.
                        "By George! She's a good-looking woman yet!"
                    Fred joined him and looked down. Phil and her mother were passing rapidly on
                        the opposite side of the street. Unconsciously Fred drew off his cap.
                    "She's a very pleasant woman," he remarked.
                        "Phil introduced me to her the other day."
                    "The devil she did! Where did all this happen?"
                    "At Mr. Montgomery's. Phil's staying there while
                        her father's away."
                    "I like your cheek! They say my nerve is pretty well developed, but
                        it is n't equal to that. How did our late auntI suppose
                        that's what she is," he grinned"take
                        you?"
                    "Like a lady, for instance. My going there was n't as
                        cheeky as you imagine. I was invited."
                    "Phil?"
                    "No; Mr. Montgomery."
                    "There must be a trick in it somewhere. He's a foxy old
                        boy, that Amzi. Has the general appearance of a fool, but he never loses any
                        money."
                    "He's offered me a job," said Fred.
                    "He's what?"
                    "Offered me a job."
                    "What's the joke? You don't mean that with all
                        this fuss over his sister's coming back he's picked out a
                        Holton to offer a job to!"
                    "That's what's happened. They want Perryhis
                        farmerto take a teaching place at the agricultural school.  It's a fine chance for him, and Mr.
                        Montgomery has released him from his contract. Perry recommended me, and Mr.
                        Montgomery asked me to the house a few evenings ago to talk it over. The
                        arrangement includes my own farm, too, which Kirkwood holds as trustee until
                        the Sycamore business is straightened out."
                    Charles backed away and stared at his brother scornfully.
                    "You idiot! don't you see what they're doing?
                        They're buying you body and soul. They want to get you on their
                        sidedon't you see it?to use against Uncle Will and me. Well! of all
                        the smooth, cold-blooded, calculating scoundrels I ever heard of, they are
                        the beatingest. Of course you saw it; you have
                        n't walked into the trap!"
                    "I've accepted the position."
                    "You blundering fool, you can't accept it! I won't
                        let you accept it!"
                    "I'm moving my traps to the Montgomery farmhouse to-morrow,
                        so you'll have to call out the troops if you stop me."
                    "Well, of all the damned fools!" Then after a turn across
                        the room he flashed round at his brother. "Look here, Fred; I see
                        your game. You want to marry that girl. Well, you can't do that
                        either!"
                    "All right, Charlie. Suppose you write out a list of the various
                        things I can't do so I won't miss any of them. You have
                        n't any sense of humor or you would n't talk about Phil
                        marrying me. Phil's not likely to marry a clodhopper, her
                        uncle's hired hand."
                    "Don't be an ass, Fred. Phil's a fine girl;
                        she's a wonder."
                    "I suppose," said Fred deliberately, "that if you
                        wanted to marry Phil Kirkwood yourself there would be no disloyalty to our
                        family in that. It would be perfectly proper; quite the right
                        thing."
                    "I did n't say I wanted to marry her," jerked
                        Charles.
                    He was pacing the floor with bent head. His brother's equanimity
                        irritated him and intensified his anger. He struck his hands together
                        suddenly as though emphasizing a resolution 
                        and arrested Fred, who had knocked the ashes from his pipe and was walking
                        slowly toward the door.
                    "I say, Fred, I did n't mean to flare up that way, but all
                        this Sycamore business has got on my nerves. Sit down a minute. Uncle
                        Will's in a terrible funk. Plumb scared to death. And just between
                        you and me he's got a right to be."
                    He crossed to the door, opened it and peered into the hall. Fred balanced
                        himself on the footboard of the bed, and watched his brother expectantly.
                        Earlier in the interview Charles had begun to say something as to their
                        father's affairs, but had failed to reach the point, either by
                        design or through the chance drift of their talk. Charles was deeply
                        worried; that was clear; and Fred resolved to give him time to swing back to
                        the original starting-point.
                    "I'm sorry if Uncle Will's in trouble, he
                        remarked."
                    "It's the First National," Charles went on in an
                        excited whisper. "The examiner made a bad report last month and the
                        Comptroller sent a special agent out who's raised the
                        devilthreatened to shut him up. That's bad enough. If old Kirkwood
                        gets ugly about Sycamore, you can't tell what he may do.
                        He's playing an awful deep, quiet game. The fact is he's
                        got us all where he wants us. If he turned the screws right now
                        we're pinched. And here's something I did n't
                        mean to tell you; but I've got to; and you've got to come
                        in and help me. Father knew the Sycamore was overbonded. The construction
                        company was only a fake and charged about double a fair price for its work.
                        Father only cashed part of the bonds he got on the construction deal and hid
                        the rest; and when he died suddenly I had to think hard and act quick, for I
                        saw the road was going to the bad, and that the people who had bought bonds
                        in good faith would rise up and howl. When I took hold as administrator, I
                        inventoried only the obvious stuffthat's why it looked so small. I
                        meant to give you and Ethel your share when the danger was all overdid
                        n't want to involve you; you see how it was. And now
                        Kirkwood's trying to trace  that
                        stuffabout three hundred thousanda hundred thousand apiece for you and Ethel
                        and me. No; not a word till I get through," he whispered hoarsely
                        as Fred tried to break in. "They can send me up for that; juggling
                        the inventory; but you see how we're all in the same boat. And what
                        you can do to save me and the bank and father's good name is to go
                        to Kirkwoodhe thinks well of you and will believe youand tell him you know
                        positively that father never got any of the construction bonds. You can be
                        sure the construction company fellows got rid of theirs and took themselves
                        off long ago. It was a fake company, anyhow. It's all in
                        Kirkwood's hands; if you shut him off, Uncle Will can pull the bank
                        through. And I'll give you your share of the bonds
                        now."
                    The perspiration glistened on his forehead; he ran his hands through his hair
                        nervously. Misreading the look in Fred's face for incredulity, he
                        pointed to the closet door.
                    "I've got the bonds in my suit-case; I was afraid Kirkwood
                        might find a way of getting into my safety box at Indianapolis.
                        He's no end smart, that fellow. And I figure that if the road goes
                        into a receivership the bonds will pay sixty anyhow. You see where that puts
                        youno more of this farmer rot. You'd be well fixed. And it will be
                        easy for you to satisfy Kirkwood. Just the right word and he will pull his
                        probe out of the administratorship, and get a receiver who will represent us
                        and give us the proceeds when the trouble's all over. Damn it!
                        Don't look at me that way! Don't you see that
                        I've been taking big chances in hiding that stuff, just for you and
                        Ethel! I'm going crazy with the responsibility of all this, and now
                        you've got to help me out. And if Kirkwood gets to the grand jury
                        with that administration business, you see where it puts uswhat it means to
                        you and Ethel, the disgrace of it. Don't forget that father took
                        those bondshis share of Sycamore swagand left it up to me to defend his good
                        name and divide the proceeds when it was safe. Don't stand there
                        like a dead man! Say something, can't you!"
                    
                    It had slowly dawned upon Fred that he was listening to an appeal for mercy,
                        a cry for help from this jaunty, cocksure brother. It was a miserable mess;
                        beyond doubt much of what he had heard in the stuffy hotel room was true. It
                        would not be Charles's way to incriminate himself so far unless
                        driven to it by direst necessity. It was clear that he was alarmed for his
                        personal safety. Fred did not doubt that Charles had attempted to swindle
                        him; had in fact gone the full length of doing so. His simple, direct nature
                        was awed by a confession that combined so many twists and turns, so many
                        oblique lines and loops and circles. He sank into a creaky rocker, and
                        rapped the arm idly with his pipebowl, conscious that Charles hovered over
                        him as though fearful that he might escape.
                    "Come back to life, can't you! It's not much
                        I'm asking of you; it won't cost you anything to help tide
                        this thing over with Kirkwood. And you get your share right now to-night.
                        Why" His lip curled with scornful depreciation as he began again to
                        minimize the importance of the transaction.
                    Fred shook himself impatiently.
                    "Please don't go over that story again or I may do
                        something ugly. Sit down over there in that chair."
                    He bent forward, his elbows on his knees and gesticulated with the pipe,
                        speaking slowly.
                    "Let's shake the chaff out and see what's left of
                        all this. You stole my share of those bonds, and now that you're in
                        danger of getting caught you want me to help you hide the boodle. You
                        flatter me with the idea that my reputation is so much better than yours
                        that I'm in a position to keep you out of jail. And for a little
                        thing like that you're willing to give me my honest share of a
                        crooked deal! You're a wonder, Charlie! It must have tickled you to
                        death to see me turning my poor old farm over to Kirkwood to uphold the
                        family honor while you were chasing over the country with the real stuff
                        packed away with your pajamas. It's picturesque, I must
                        say!"
                    
                    His eyes rested upon his brother's face lingeringly, but his tone
                        and manner were indulgent, as though he were an older brother who had caught
                        a younger one in a misdemeanor.
                    "Cut that out! I've told you the whole truth. If you
                        won't help, all right."
                    "No, it is n't all right. There's no all right
                        about any of this. It's rotten clean through."
                    He frowned with the stress of his thought, then rose, and began buttoning his
                        coat.
                    "Well?" Charles questioned harshly, impatient for his
                        brother's decision.
                    "I won't do it. I won't have anything to do with
                        your scheme. After the trouble you've taken to steal those bonds it
                        would be a shame to take any of them away from you. I advise you to carry
                        them back to Indianapolis and turn them over to Kirkwood. He's not
                        half the cold-blooded scoundrel you seem to think. You'd make a big
                        hit with him."
                    "And after I've told you everythingafter I've
                        shown you that I was only covering up father's share in that
                        construction business, for your sake, and our sister's,
                        that's all you've got to say about it!"
                    A malevolent grin crossed the older man's face. He was white with
                        passion.
                    "You'll pay for this; I'll land one on you for
                        this that will hurt."
                    He waited expectantly for Fred to demand the nature of this vengeance; his
                        rage cried for the satisfaction of seeing him flinch at the blow. Fred
                        settled his cap on his head and walked stolidly toward the door. Charles
                        caught him by the shoulder and flung him round.
                    "You think you can drop me like that! Not by a damned sight you
                        can't! You think you stand pretty close to the Montgomerys,
                        don't you?the only real good Holton in the bunchbut I'll
                        give you a jar. You imagine you're going to marry Phil,
                        don't you?but I'll show you a thing or two.
                    
                    I'm going to marry Phil myself; it's all practically
                        understood."
                    "That's all right, too, Charlie," replied Fred
                        calmly. "The ambition does you proud. I suppose when you tell
                        Kirkwood you're engaged to his daughter he will call off the
                        dogs."
                    "Oh, they're not so high and mighty! Now that
                        Phil's mother has brought her smirched reputation back here, Phil
                        will be glad to marry and get out."
                    "Just for old time's sake, Charlie, I advise you not to
                        play that card."
                    "You're too late with your advice. That day Phil and I
                        climbed The Cliffs she promised to marry me. You saw us up there; that was
                        before her mother came back. But as far as her mother's concerned,
                        I'll stand for her. A woman that's been through the
                        divorce mill twice has got to be humble. You can be dead sure she would
                        never have shown up here if it had n't been for old Amzi's
                        ducats. Women like that go where the money comes easiest."
                    Fred listened with a kind of bewildered intensity. That a man should speak
                        thus of the mother of a girl whom he meant to marry touched the uttermost
                        depths of vulgarity. Little as he had in common with his brother, he had
                        never believed him capable of anything so base. Yet much as he distrusted
                        him, he half-believed the story of the engagement. There must be some basis
                        for his declaration, and it would be quite like Charles to hasten matters
                        with a view to blocking Kirkwood's investigations of the Holton
                        estate. Jealousy and anger surged in his heart. The air of the room stifled
                        him.
                    "You've lost your mind; that's the only way I can
                        explain you. If you were quite sane, you would n't forget the part
                        our father's brother played in Phil's mother's
                        affairs."
                    "Don't take that tragic tone with me; Uncle Jack's
                        told me all about that woman. She's the very devil. She led him a
                        dog's life until he chucked her."
                    Fred nodded, slowly drawing on his gloves, whose shabbiness affected his
                        brother disagreebly. Charles had expected  to
                        score heavily with his declaration that Phil had promised to marry him; but
                        this had apparently been a wasted shot. He wondered whether he had misread
                        the symptoms that had seemed to indicate Fred's interest in that
                        quarter.
                    Fred's composure was irritating. Charles was never sure what
                        impression he made on this quiet brother, whose very unresponsiveness had
                        driven him to disclosures he had not meant to make. He had managed the
                        interview clumsily; he was not up to the mark, or he would not have made so
                        many false starts in this talk, on whose results he had counted much.
                    His fingers touched his scarfpin and tie nervously.
                    "Now that you know the whole business I need n't ask you to
                        keep your mouth shut. But I suppose with your delicate sense of honor
                        I'm safe."
                    "You are quite safe, Charlie. I'd repeat my advice if I
                        thought it would do any good. I'd turn that stuff over to Kirkwood
                        as quickly as I could."
                    He had opened the door and started down the hall when Charles, his
                        apprehensions aroused as he saw his brother's determined stride
                        toward the stairs, sprang after him.
                    "What are you up to; where are you going?" he demanded
                        excitedly.
                    "Stop 7. Good-night!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXI
                    PHIL'S FISTS
                    "THIS is very kind of you, Mrs. Holton. Please be
                        sure that I appreciate it."
                    Charles Holton bowed profoundly, and lifted his head for a closer inspection
                        of Mrs. Lois Montgomery Holton.
                    He had called for Phil, whom he had engaged to escort to a lecture in the
                        Athenaeum Course. When his note proposing this entertainment reached Phil,
                        she dutifully laid it before her mother who lay on her bed reading a French
                        novel.
                    "Special delivery! A wild extravagance when there's a
                        perfectly good telephone in the house."
                    Lois read the note twice; her eyes resting lingeringly upon the
                        signature.
                    "Wayland Brown Bayless, LL.D., on 'Sunshine and
                        Shadow.' He was giving that same lecture here when I was a girl; it
                        ought to be well mellowed by this time. Either the president of the college
                        or the pastor of Center Church will present him to the audience and the
                        white pitcher of Sugar Creek water that is always provided. Well,
                        it's a perfectly good lecture, and old enough to be respectable:
                        Smiles and sobs stuck in at regular intervals. I approve of the lecture,
                        Phil. I'd almost make Amzi take me, just to see how Bayless, LL.D.,
                        looks after all these years. Away back there when I heard him he looked so
                        old I thought he must have been a baby playing in the sand when they carved
                        the Sphinx."
                    She returned the note to Phil and her eyes reverted to the book.
                    "What about it, mamma?"
                    "Oh, about going! Let me see. This is the other Holton  boy, so to speakthe provider of American
                        Beauties, as distinguished from the dispenser of quails?"
                    Phil confirmed this.
                    "It's Charlie. He's taken me to parties several
                        times. I rather think this note is a feeler. He does n't know
                        whether he ought to come herenow" and Phil ended, with the doubt
                        she attributed to Charles Holton manifest in her own uncertainty.
                    "We went over that the other day, Phil. As those wise aunts of yours
                        introduced you to this person, I should n't suggest that you drop
                        his acquaintance on my account. You see"she raised herself slightly
                        to punch a more comfortable hollow in the pillows"you see that
                        would merely stir up strife, which is highly undesirable. If you think you
                        can survive Bayless, LL.D.'s, plea for optimism, accept the
                        gentleman's invitation. There's only thisyou yourself
                        might be a little uncomfortable, for reasons we need n't mention;
                        you'll have to think of that. I suppose chaperons did n't
                        reach Montgomery with the electric light; girls run around with young men
                        just as they used to."
                    "I don't care what people say, so far as that is
                        concerned," replied Phil. "Charlie has been kind to meand
                        the lecture is the only thing that offers just now."
                    Lois laughed.
                    "Then, go!"
                    "And besides, just now people are talking about the Sycamore Company
                        and father's connection with it, and I should n't want
                        Charlie to feel that I thought he was n't all straight about that;
                        for I don't suppose he did anything worng. He does n't
                        seem like that."
                    Lois reached for a pot of cold cream and applied the ointment to her lips
                        with the tip of a slim, well-cared-for finger.
                    "You think maybe he's being persecuted?"
                    "Oh, I've wondered; that's all."
                    "I should n't worry about that part of it: if you feel like
                        going, tell him you'll go. It will give me a chance to look at him.
                        This is Charles, is it? Then it was Fred who came  the other evening to see Amzi;he's pretty serious but
                        substantial permissible if not exactly acceptable. You'll have to
                        learn to judge men for yourself. And you'll do it. I'm not
                        a bit afraid for you. And it's rather fortunate than otherwise that
                        you have specimens of the Holton family to work on, particularly with me
                        standing by to throw a word in now and then."
                    So it came about that when Charles appeared the next evening, fortified with
                        one of the village hacks, Lois went down to inspect him. Amzi had returned
                        to the bank, and Phil was changing her gown.
                    Charles, having expressed his appreciation of Mrs. Holton's
                        courtesy, found difficulty in concealing the emotions she aroused in him. He
                        had expected to feel uncomfortable in the presence of this lady, of whom her
                        former husband, his uncle, had spoken so bitterly; but she was not at all
                        the sort of person one would suspect of being in league with the Devilan
                        alliance vouched for in profane terms by Jack Holton. Charles liked new
                        sensations, and it was positively thrilling to stand face to face with this
                        woman who had figured so prominently in his family history.
                    He placed a chair for her with elaborate care, and bowed her into it. She was
                        a much more smoothly finished product than her daughter. He liked
                        "smart" women, and Mrs. Holton was undeniably
                        "smart." Her languid grace, the faint hints of sachet her
                        raiment exhaled; her abrupt, crisp manner of speakingin innumerable ways she
                        was delightful and satisfying. She was a woman of the world: as a man of the
                        world he felt that they understood each other without argument. The
                        disparity of their years was not so great as to exclude the hope that little
                        attentions from him would be grateful to her; it was a fair assumption that
                        a woman who had dismissed two husbands would not be averse to the approaches
                        of a presentable young man. He wished to fix himself in her mind as one who
                        breathed naturally the ampler ether of her own world. It would be easier to
                        win Phil with her mother as an ally.
                    
                         "You did go to Madison? I suppose
                        all good Montgomery boys go to the home college."
                    "Well, of course that was one of my mistakes. You never quite
                        recover what you lose by going to these little freshwater colleges. You
                        never quite get the jay out of your system."
                    The obvious reply to this was that in his case it had not mattered, for
                        patently he did not even remotely suggest the state or condition of jayness;
                        but Mrs. Holton ignored the opportunity to appease his vanity.
                    "Oh!"
                    Phil's "Oh" was ambiguous enough; but her
                        mother's was even more baffling.
                    "Of course, we all love Madison," he hastened to add;
                        "but I'm around a good deal, here and there over the
                        country, and when I meet Yale and Harvard men I always feel that I have
                        missed something; there is a difference."
                    "Clothesneckties?" suggested Mrs. Holton.
                    "It's a little deeper than that."
                    "Knack of ordering a dinner?"
                    "Oh, you're putting me in a corner! I'd never
                        thought it all out; but I've always felt a difference. If
                        I'm wrong, there's nobody I'd rather have set me
                        right than you."
                    Her laugh was enthralling. She had no intention of committing herself on the
                        relative advantages of big and little colleges.
                    "Let me see, Mr. Holton, your business is"
                    "Oh, I'm a broker in investment securities; that's
                        the way they have me down in the Indianapolis Directory."
                    "You advise people what to do with their money and that sort of
                        thing? It's very responsible, I should think, and it must be
                        wearing."
                    Her face reflected the gravity associated with the delicate matter of
                        investments. For a woman whose two matrimonial adventures had left her a
                        stranded dependent she carried this off well, and she could play a part; and
                        he liked people who could carry a part gracefully. She turned so that  the firelight fell upon her face and raised a
                        fan to shield her cheek from the heat. Her use of her hands charmed him. He
                        could not recall a more graceful woman in all his acquaintance. He added
                        trim ankles and a discriminating taste in silk hose to his itemized
                        appraisement of her attractions.
                    "If a poor lone woman should come to you with a confession that she
                        owned, say, fifty to a hundred thousand dollars' worth of
                        Government 3's, what would you advise her to do with
                        them?"
                    It was as though she spoke of poetry or the moonlit sea. "Fifty or a
                        hundred!" She could as easily have spoken of a chest of Spanish
                        doubloons, or some other monetary unit of romance. He was flattered that she
                        was taking so much pains with him; a woman who was so fair to look upon
                        might amuse herself at his expense as much as she liked. It was delightful
                        trifling. He felt that it was incumbent upon him to respond in kind.
                    "Oh, I should feel it my duty to double her incomeor triple it. Few
                        of us can afford to fool with Governments; but, of course, there are not
                        many first-rate securities that pay high interest. That's where I
                        come in: it's my business to find them for my
                        clients."
                    "What would you recommendI mean right now something that would net
                        seven per cent and be safe for the poor widow we're talking
                        about?"
                    "Well," he laughed nervously, "I haven't
                        anything better right now than bonds of the Hornbrook Electric Power at a
                        price to net six."
                    "Butthat sounds very conservative. And besides they say
                        there's not enough water in Hornbrook Creek to furnish power for
                        any great number of mills. The engineer's report was very
                        unsatisfactoryquite so. I looked into that. Should you say that the
                        territory adjacent to the creek is likely to inviteoh, factories, mills, and
                        that sort of thing?"
                    He colored as her brown eyes met his in one of her flashing glances. She
                        mentioned Hornbrook Creek in her low, 
                        caressing voice as though it were only an item of landscape, and the report
                        of the engineers might have been a pirate's round-robin, hidden in
                        an old sea chest from the way she spoke of it. It was inconceivable that she
                        had prepared for this interview. She touched her pompadour lightly with the
                        back of her handthe smallest of handsand he was so lost in admiration of the
                        witchery of the gesture that he was disconcerted to find her eyes bent upon
                        him keenly.
                    "Of course, it's got to be developedlike anything
                        else," he replied.
                    "Butthe fixed chargesand that sort of thing?"
                    He wished she would not say "that sort of thing." The
                        phrase as she used it swept everything before it like a broom.
                    "It's a delicate matter, the sale of bonds," she
                        continued. "I suppose if they turn out badly the investors have the
                        bad manners to complain."
                    "Well, it's up to the broker to satisfy them. My father
                        taught me that," he went on largely. "He promoted a great
                        number of schemes and nobody ever had any kick. You may have heard of the
                        Sycamore troubleswell, I'm personally assuming the responsibility
                        there. I deeply regret, as you may imagine, that there should be all this
                        talk, but I'm going to pull it out. It's only fair to
                        myself to say to you that that's my attitude. There's a
                        lot of spite work back of it; you probably realize that."
                    He wanted to say that Tom Kirkwood was the malignant agent in the situation,
                        but he shrank from mentioning the lawyer. He wished Phil would come down and
                        terminate an interview that was becoming increasingly disagreeable.
                    "What do you consider those Sycamore bonds worth, Mr.
                        Holton?"
                    "Par!" he ejaculated.
                    "You really think so?"
                    "My word of honor! There's not a better
                        "buy" in the American market," he affirmed
                        solemnly.
                    "You can dispose of them at full face value?" she queried,
                        arching her brows, her eyes full of wonder.
                    
                    "I'll pay that for any you have, Mrs. Holton," he
                        threw out at a venture, feeling that it was a "safe"
                        play.
                    "Then I have twenty of them, and I believe I'll sell. You
                        may bring me a check to-morrow. I shall have the bonds here at, say, three
                        o'clock."
                    She glanced carelessly at the watch on her wrist, and murmured something
                        about Phil's delay. The bond transaction was concluded, so far as
                        she was concerned; she spoke now of the reported illness of the Czar. She
                        had visited St. Petersburg and appeared to be conversant with Russian
                        politics.
                    It was in Charles's mind that his Uncle Jack would never have
                        dropped a woman who owned twenty bonds that were worth even a dime apiece.
                        He was confident of some trick. Phil's mother had led him into
                        ambush, and was now enjoying his discomfiture. His face reddened with anger.
                        She knew perfectly well that he could not fulfill the commission he had been
                        trapped into undertaking. His pride was stung, and his humiliation was
                        deepened by her perfect tranquillity. Phil's delay had been by
                        connivance, to give time for this encounter. His Uncle Jack had been right:
                        the woman belonged to the Devil's household.
                    His ordeal had lasted only twenty minutes, though it had seemed an hour.
                        Phil's tardiness was due to the fact that she had returned from a
                        tea just as dinner was announced, and she had gone to the table without
                        changing her gown. She had, of course, no idea of what had occurred when she
                        appeared before them, and met with her habitual cheeriness her
                        mother's chaffing rebuke for her dallying.
                    "Sorry! But it's only eight, and the lecturer dined with
                        Mrs. King, who never hurries. Hope you two have n't bored each
                        other!"
                    She thrust out her white-sheathed arm for her mother's help with the
                        buttons. Charles, still smarting, drew on his gloves with an effort at
                        composure. His good looks were emphasized by his evening clothes, and a
                        glimpse he caught of himself in the gilt-framed mirror above the mantel was
                        reassuring.  He picked up the wrap Phil had
                        flung on the chair, and laid it over her shoulders, while Lois stood by, her
                        finger-tips resting on the back of a chair. If she lacked in the essential
                        qualities of a lady, he at least could be a gentleman; and when he had
                        donned his overcoat, he bowed over her hand, with his best imitation of the
                        ambassadorial elegance which the Honorable Stewart King (son of Mrs. John
                        Newman King) had brought back to Montgomery from the Belgian Court.
                    "I'm glad to have had this opportunity, Mrs.
                        Holton."
                    "Not a word to Phil!" The slightest inclination of her
                        head, a compression of the lips, the lifting of her brows, suggested that
                        the most prodigious secrets had been discussed. She was quite equal to
                        rubbing salt in the wounds she inflicted! He was in no mood for a discussion
                        of sunshine and shadow; the lecture would be a bore, but he would have an
                        hour and a half in which to plan revenge upon Mrs. Holton. As the carriage
                        rattled toward Masonic Hall, Phil talked gayly of the afternoon's
                        tea.
                    When they reached the hall the lecturer was just walking onto the platform,
                        and Charles saw with elation that Phil and he shared public attention with
                        the orator. As they took their seats there was much craning of necks.
                        Lois's return had set all manner of rumors afloat. It had been said
                        that she had come back to keep Phil out of the clutches of the Holtons; and
                        here was Phil with Charlie Holton. Glances of surprise were exchanged. It
                        was plain that Lois was not interfering with Phil's affairs.
                        Possibly the appearance of the two just now had a special significance. It
                        was tough on Tom Kirkwood, though, that his daughter should be thrown in the
                        way of a son of the House of Holton! The pastor of Center Church introduced
                        the lecturer to an inattentive audience.
                    At the end there was the usual "visiting," and Phil
                        remained perforce to take her part in it. Phil had enjoyed the lecture; Phil
                        always enjoyed everything! Charles,  with her
                        cloak on his arm, made himself agreeable to a visiting girl to whom Phil
                        entrusted him while she obeyed a command from Mrs. King to meet the
                        speaker.
                    Wayland Brown Bayless was encircled by a number of leading citizens and
                        citizenesses. Judge Walters was in the group, and Captain Joshua Wilson, and
                        Mr. and Mrs. Alec Waterman, and General and Mrs. Wilks, and the wife of
                        Congressman Reynoldsrepresentatives of Montgomery's oldest and
                        best. Phil shook hands with Wayland Brown Bayless and told him she was glad
                        he had quoted Shelley's Skylark," her favorite poem,
                        whereupon he departed hurriedly to catch a train. It was then that Mrs. King
                        took advantage of the proximity of so many leading citizens and
                        citizenesses, who had just heard pessimism routed and optimism glorified, to
                        address Phil in that resonant tone of authority she brought to all
                        occasions.
                    "Phil, how's your mother?"
                    "Mamma's very well, thank you, Mrs. King."
                    "I wish you would tell Lois to make no engagement for Thursday
                        nightThursday, rememberas I want her to dine with me;that means you and
                        Amzi, too. The Sir Edward Gibberts, who made the Nile trip when I did in
                        '72, are on their way home from Japan and are stopping off to see
                        me. Don't forget it's Thursday, Phil."
                    It was all Montgomery she addressed, not Phil, as Phil and every one in
                        hearing distance understood perfectly. Reduced to terms, what had happened
                        was this: Mrs. John Newman King, the indisputable social censor of
                        Montgomery, whose husband, etc., etc., was "taking up"
                        Lois Holton! Not since that April afternoon when General Wilks, judge of the
                        circuit court, left the bench and personally beat a drum on the court-house
                        steps to summon volunteers to avenge the firing upon Sumter had anything
                        quite touched the dramatic heights of this incident. And Mrs.
                        King's pew in Center Church was Number 2 on the middle aisle!
                    Phil's blood tingled and her eyes filled. Her Aunt Josephine flung a
                        murderous glance at her, as though she were 
                        in any wise responsible for the vagaries of Mrs. John Newman King!
                    The gloomy station hack was waiting at the door when she emerged with her
                        escort. Charles had exerted himself to interest the visiting girland she had
                        promised to call him up the next time she was in Indianapolis, which was
                        some compensation for the banalities of the lecture.
                    "It's a fine night; let's walk home,"
                        said Phil.
                    Charles discharged the hackman without debate. His had been the only carriage
                        at the door, except Mrs. King's ancient coach, and he felt that
                        Phil had not appreciated his munificence. The remembrance of his encounter
                        with her mother rankled, and as he thought of Fred's rejection of
                        his proposal about the bonds and of Kirkwood's persistent, steady
                        stroke in the traction matter, he was far from convinced by the lessons of
                        the lecture. The sight of Montgomery in its best clothes, showing its
                        delight in optimism, had only aroused his contempt. He had been annoyed by
                        Phil's manifestations of pleasure; she had laughed aloud once at a
                        story, before the rest of the audience caught the point, and he felt that
                        considerable patient labor would be required to smooth out Phil's
                        provincial crudenesses.
                    Phil's spirits soared. The world was, indeed, a good place, and full
                        of charity and kindness. Wayland Brown Bayless had said so; Mrs. John Newman
                        King had done much to prove it. She walked from the hall in one of her moods
                        of exaltation, her head high
                    "I apologize, Phil; I had no idea the old fellow could be such a
                        bore. I heard him once when I was in college and thought he was the real
                        thingand it was, to the sophomoric taste."
                    "Oh, he's a perfect dear! Don't you dare
                        apologize! And his stories were perfectly killingall new to
                        me."
                    "You deserve better things, Phil, than the entertainments this town
                        affords. You were destined for the wider world; I've always felt
                        that about you."
                    He had forced a slower pace than the quick step with which  Phil had set out. His mind was working
                        busily. Phil was an exceedingly pretty and a very intelligent girl, and it
                        would be a good stroke on his part to marry her. Amzi would undoubtedly do
                        the generous thing by her. He had made his boast to Fredand why not? There
                        was no surer way of staying Kirkwood's hand than to present himself
                        as the affianced husband of the lawyer's daughter. Phil's
                        mother did not matter, after all. Kirkwood would probably be relieved to
                        find that Phil had been rescued from a woman he had every reason to
                        hate.
                    "You never looked so well as you did to-night, Phil. I was proud of
                        you. And you won't mind my saying it, but it was fine of you to go
                        with me whenwell, you know what I mean."
                    Phil knew what he meant. She said:
                    "Fine, nothing. You were kind to ask me and I had a good time every
                        minute."
                    "I was n't sure you'd go. Things have happened
                        queerly you know what I mean."
                    Phil knew what he meant.
                    "Oh, don't be looking for queernesses; we've got
                        to take things as they come along. That's my way of doing; and
                        I'm more than ever convinced that optimism is the true
                        doctrine."
                    In spite of herself her last words ended a little dolorously. He was quick to
                        seize advantage of this unfamiliar mood.
                    "I hope you know that any trouble that may come to you is my
                        trouble, too, Phil. Not many girls would have done what you did to-night. No
                        other girl I ever knew or read of would have taken the chance of stirring up
                        gossip as you did in going with me. It was splendid and
                        heroic."
                    "Pshaw! I don't see anything heroic in going to a lecture
                        you want to hear if a kind friend offers to take you. Let's talk of
                        something else."
                    "I want to talk about you, Phil."
                    "Then you'll have to find somebody else to listen; I  won't! I like to hear about
                        interesting things. Now don't feel you must tell me I'm a
                        fruitful topic!"
                    "I'm serious to-night. I have n't been happy
                        lately. I've had a lot of responsibilities thrown on methings I
                        never knew about have been dumped down on me without any warning. I was
                        tired to death to-night, and I can't tell you what a joy
                        it's been to be with you. I was n't listening to the
                        lecture; it meant nothing to me. I was thinking of you, Phil."
                    Phil stopped short. The senior who had proposed to her had employed a similar
                        prelude, and she had no intention of subjecting herself to a second
                        attack.
                    "You may think of me all you like; but don't tell me; just
                        let me guess. It is n't any fun if you know people think of you. We
                        expect our friends to think of us. That's what we have them
                        for."
                    She started off more briskly, but he refused to accommodate himself to her
                        pace. The undercurrent of resentment in his soul gathered force. He must
                        justify his boast to his brother, for one thing; and for another, his face
                        smarted from her mother's light, ironic whip.
                    "Phil!" he began endearingly.
                    "Oh, come on! We can't stand in the street all night
                        discussing the philosophy of life."
                    "Since that afternoon at the Run," he continued, as they
                        started forward again, "everything has been different with me,
                        Phil. I never felt until lately that I really wanted to follow my good
                        inclinations: I've done a lot of things I'm sorry for, but
                        that's all over. I felt that day, as we stood together at the top
                        of the bluff, that a new spirit had come into my life. You know I'm
                        a good deal older than you, Phil just about ten years' difference;
                        but you seem immensely older and wiser. I never knew a woman who knew as
                        much."
                    She stopped again, and drew away from him.
                    "Mr. Holton!" she ejaculated mockingly; "please
                        don't try that kind of jollying on me. I don't like
                        it."
                    This, uttered with sharp peremptoriness, did not soo the  him; nor was he in any humor to be thwarted. He had felt that
                        Phil liked him; and a great many girls had been in love with him. If she
                        made his approaches difficult, there was the more reason for believing that
                        his proposal of marriage would not fall upon ungrateful ears. And, besides,
                        Phil was just the sort of perverse, willful young woman to jump at a
                        proposal, the more readily if the suitor was set apart from her by barriers
                        that invited a young romantic imagination.
                    "I was n't jollying you," he said, "and
                        you know I was n't. You've known from the first that I
                        admired you. In fact, it was all over with me the first time I spoke to
                        youwhen you took me down so. I liked your spirit; I hate these tame,
                        perfectly conventional girls; they bore me to death."
                    "Oh, I like that! How dare you say I'm
                        not perfectly conventional!" she laughed.
                    "You know perfectly well what I mean. You have a mind and will of
                        your own, and I like that in you. You're a perfect wonder, Phil.
                        You're the most fascinating creature in the world!"
                    "Creature!" she mocked.
                    "Look here, Phil; I don't want you to pick me up like that.
                        I'm entitled to better treatment. I'm in terrible earnest
                        and I don't mean to be put off in any such way."
                    "Well, I'm not afraid to walk home alone!" She
                        made a feint at leaving him; then waited for him to catch up with her.
                    It had been said of Phil that she liked to tease; she had, with a pardonable
                        joy, made the high-school boys dance to her piping, and the admiration of
                        the young collegians was tempered with awe and fear. She felt herself fully
                        equal to any emergencies that might arise with young men. The boys she had
                        known had all been nice fellows, good comrades, with whom she had entered
                        into boyish sports zestfully, until her lengthening skirts had excluded her
                        from participation in town-ball and the spring's delight in
                        marbles. When her chums became seniors in college and appeared at parties in
                        dress-suits, the transformation struck her as funny. They  were still the "boys" who
                        had admired the ease with which she threw, and caught, and batted, and whom
                        she had bankrupted in naughty games of chance with marbles. She liked
                        Charles Holton. The difference in their years added to the flattery of his
                        attentions. He was a practiced flirt, and she had made experiments of her
                        own in the gentle art of flirtation. Phil was human.
                    "If you knew how depressed I am, and how I need a little sympathy
                        and friendliness, you would n't act like that. We are good friends,
                        are n't we?"
                    "I have n't questioned it."
                    "We understand each other, don't we?"
                    "In the plain old Hoosier language, yes!"
                    "And if I tell you out of the depths of my humility that no one in
                        the world means so much to me as you do, you understand, don't you,
                        Phil?"
                    "Certainly. Your words are admirably chosen and we'll let
                        it go at that."
                    Her flippancy now invited rather than repelled him. It was his experience
                        that girls like to be made love to; the more reluctant they appear, the
                        better they like it; and as she moved along beside him her beauty, her
                        splendid health, her audacity struck fire in him. It was to-night or never
                        between Phil and him. His to-morrows were uncertain; there was no guessing
                        what Kirkwood might do, and Phil alone could protect and save him.
                    "Phil, this whole situation here is an impossible one for you.
                        Because I'm older I realize it probably more than you do. First it
                        was my Uncle Jack that came back here and stirred things up, and nowyou
                        won't take it unkindly if I say that your mother's return
                        has been most unfortunate for all of us. A girl like you ought n't
                        to be exposed to the gossip of a country town. It's not fair to
                        you. I love you, Phil; I want you to marry me, at once, the quicker the
                        better. I want to take you away from all this. Phildear!"
                    His tone thrilled her; she was persuaded of his kindness and generosity. He
                        had not abused her mother or spoken  unkindly
                        of his uncle even. He had shown the nicest tact and discretion in his
                        proposal of marriage, hinting at his own difficulties without attempting to
                        play upon her sympathies. She could not laugh it off; she felt no
                        inclination to do so.
                    "I'm sorry, Charlie; I'm awfully sorry; and I did
                        n't want you to go on; I really did n't mean to let you; I
                        tried to stop you. I respect you and like you; but I don't love
                        you. So that's all there is to it. Now we must hurry
                        home."
                    They were quite near Amzi's gate, and there was need for urgency.
                        The thought of her mother gave him an angry throb; very likely she was
                        waiting for them.
                    "You don't mean that, Phil! I can't have it that
                        way."
                    "I do mean just that. So please don't say any more about
                        it; we won't either of us be happier for talking about
                        it."
                    "That's not square, Phil. You knew it was bound to come to
                        this. You let me go on believing, hoping"
                    "If you think such things of me, I shall be sorry I ever saw
                        you."
                    "I've offered you a way out for yourself; your happiness is
                        at stake. You must get away from here. Let us get married nowto-night, and
                        leave this place forever, Phil!"
                    "No!" she cried angrily, frightened now as he stopped and
                        planted himself before her at the edge of Amzi's lawn, where the
                        house loomed darkly against the stars.
                    He gripped her arms. In all her rough play with boys, none had ever dared to
                        touch her, and she choked with wrath. He had taken her off guard. Her hands,
                        thrust into her muff, were imprisoned there by his grasp of her arms.
                    "Phil, you can't leave me like this. You've got to
                        say yes. I'll kill myself if you don't."
                    She tried to wrench herself free, but his anger had slipped its leash and was
                        running away with him. He drew her toward him, and the brute in him roused
                        at her nearness. He threw an arm round her suddenly, and bent to kiss her.
                        Abruptly she flung him back, wrenched her arms free and seized his wrists.
                        Her fear left her on the instant; she was as strong or stronger than he, and
                        she held him away from  her easily, breathing
                        deeply, and wondering just how to dispose of him. She laughed mockingly as
                        he struggled, confident in the security of her greater strength. The light
                        from Amzi's gate-lamp fell upon them, and she peered into his face
                        curiously. At other times the spectacle of a gentleman in a silk hat held at
                        ease by a young woman in her best evening bonnet would have been amusing,
                        but Phil was thoroughly angry.
                    "I did n't think you would be like this. I thought all the
                        time that you were a man; I even thought you were a gentleman!"
                    He jerked back in an effort to free his arms, a movement that precipitated
                        his hat to the pavement. She gave his wrists a wrench that caused him to cry
                        out in pain. To be held in a vise-like grip by a girl he had tried to kiss
                        was a new and disagreeable experience. His anger rioted uncontrollably. He
                        brought his face closer and sneered:
                    "You need n't take such grand airs;think what your mother
                        is!"
                    She flung him against the iron fence with a violence that shook it, and her
                        fists beat a fierce tattoo on his facewhitegloved fists, driven by sound,
                        vigorous, young arms; and then as he cowered, with his arms raised to
                        protect himself from her blows, she stepped back, her anger and contempt
                        still unsatisfied.
                    He lifted his head, guardedly, thinking the attack was over, and with a quick
                        sweep of her arm she struck his face with her open hand, a sharp, tingling
                        slap. As she turned toward the gate, her foot encountered his hat. She
                        kicked it into the street, and then, without looking back, swung the gate
                        open and ran up the path to the house.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXII
                    MR. WATERMAN'S GREAT OPPORTUNITY
                    JACK HOLTON reappeared in Montgomery
                        toward the end of March, showed himself to Main Street in a new suit of
                        clothes, intimated to old friends that he was engaged upon large affairs,
                        and complained bitterly to a group of idlers at the Morton House of the
                        local-option law that had lately been invoked to visit upon Montgomery the
                        curse of perpetual thirst. He then sought Alexander Waterman in that
                        gentleman's office. Waterman he had known well in old times, and he
                        correctly surmised that the lawyer was far from prosperous. Men who married
                        into the Montgomery family did n't prosper, some way! An assumption
                        that they were both victims of daughters of the House of Montgomery may have
                        entered into his choice of Waterman as a likely person to precipitate a row
                        in Sycamore affairs. It was with a purpose that he visited
                        Waterman's office on the Mill Street side of the court-house, over
                        Redmond's undertaking parlorsa suggestive proximity that had not
                        been neglected by local humorists.
                    "This is your chance, old man, to take up a fight for the people
                        that can't fail to make you solid. What this poor old town needs is
                        a leader. They're all sound asleep, dead ones, who'd turn
                        over and take another nap if Gabriel blew his horn. These fellows are
                        getting ready to put over the neatest little swindle ever practiced on a
                        confiding public. The newspapers are in itabsolutely muzzled. I
                        won't lie to you about my motive in coming to you. I'm
                        sore all over from the knocks I've got. My dear brother Will has
                        kicked me out; actually told me he'd have me arrested if I ever
                        showed up here again. Like a fool I sent word to Kirkwood that I could be of
                        service in getting to the bottom of Sycamore; 
                        thought he'd led bygones be bygones when it came to straight
                        business, but, by George, he did n't even answer my letter! Cold as
                        a frozen lobster, and always was! You see I thought it was all on the
                        levelhis tinkering with the traction companybut he's in on the
                        shrewdest piece of high finance that was ever put over in Indiana. Talk
                        about my lamented brother SamuelSam never started in his
                        class!"
                    Waterman, with his ponderous swivel-chair tipped back against the Indiana
                        Reports that lined the wall, listened guardedly. It was not wholly
                        flattering to be chosen by a man of Jack Holton's reputation as the
                        repository of confidences; but things had been going badly with Waterman.
                        His passion for speculation had led him to invest funds he held as guardian
                        in pork margins, and a caprice of the powers that play with pork in Chicago
                        had wiped him out. Judge Walters had just been asking impertinent questions
                        about the guardianship money, and when he had gone to the First National
                        Bank for a loan to tide over the judicial inquiry and avert an appeal to his
                        bondsmen, William Holton had "called" a loan of three
                        hundred dollars that the bank had been carrying for two years. This was very
                        annoying, and it made the lawyer more tolerant of Jack Holton than he should
                        otherwise have been.
                    "We're talking on the dead, are we?"
                    Waterman grunted his acquiescence.
                    "Well, Kirkwood and old Amzi have framed it up to pinch the small
                        Sycamore stockholders. Kirkwood stands in with those Eastern fellows who
                        have the big end of ithe's their representative, as everybody
                        knows. And old Amzi is gumshoeing through the woods buying bonds of the yaps
                        who shelled out to Samueltelling them the company's gone to the
                        bad, and that he's the poor man's friend, anxious to
                        assume their burdens. It's a good story, all right. Of course he
                        has his tip from Kirkwood that the bonds are going to boom or he would
                        n't be putting money into 'em. You know Amzi he's
                        the king of gumshoe artistsand he and Kirkwood are bound to make a big
                        clean-up out of this."
                    
                    Waterman was interested. He had always disliked Amzi. He felt that the banker
                        had never dealt squarely with him, and in particular the peremptory fashion
                        in which Amzi, seven years earlier, had pushed his pass-book through the
                        window and suggested that he take his account elsewhere had eaten into his
                        soul.
                    "I knew somebody was picking up those bonds, but I did n't
                        know it was Amzi. One of my clients had five of them, and I'd got
                        him to the point of letting me bring suit for a receiver, but somebody shut
                        him off."
                    "Your client's bonds are in Kirkwood's pocket, all
                        right enough. By George, can you beat it! And here's another thing.
                        A man hates to talk against his own flesh and blood; and you may think
                        I'm not in a position to strut around virtuously and talk about
                        other people's sins; but I guess I've got some sense of
                        honor left. I've never stolen any money. I did run off with another
                        man's wife, and I got my pay for that. That was
                        in the ardor of youth, Waterman; it was a calamitous mistake. Nobody knows
                        it better than I do. I got my punishment. I don't wish the woman
                        any harm; she's a brazen one, and don't need
                        anybody's sympathy."
                    Lois Montgomery Holton's brazenness had been brought to
                        Waterman's attention convincingly at home. Josephine, Kate, and
                        Fanny were almost insane over their sister's bold return. Her
                        impudence in settling herself upon Amzi, under their very noses, was
                        discussed every day and all day on Sunday, whenever Lois's sisters
                        could get their heads together. Waterman felt that Jack Holton's
                        direct testimony as to the brazenness of their wicked sister would be
                        grateful to the ears of his wife and sisters-in-law.
                    "I guess," said Waterman, "that has n't
                        anything to do with the case. If what you say's true"
                    "Oh, it's true, all right enough. You go over to the
                        "Star" office and ask why they've shut up about
                        Sycamore; ask Judge Walters why certain damage suits against the Sycamore
                        Company have n't been tried; go out among the people who had put
                        the savings of years into the traction 
                        company and ask them who's buying their bonds. And then, just for a
                        joke, telegraph the Comptroller at Washington and ask him why he sent out a
                        special agent of the Treasury to look over the First National after the
                        examiner's last visit. I tell you, this town's going to
                        have a big jar in a day or two, and it's just about up to you to
                        get out among the people and tell 'em how they're being
                        worked."
                    "The people like being worked," replied Waterman, who had
                        been trying to bring the people to a realizing sense of their wrongs in
                        every campaign for twenty years. In a few months they would again be
                        choosing a Representative in Congress for the seat he had long coveted, and
                        it was conceivable that if he should now show himself valiant in their
                        behalf he might avert his usual biennial defeat. It was worth
                        considering.
                    "The thing to do is to hold a mass meeting and make one of your big
                        speeches, pitching into Walters for refusing to bring those damage suits to
                        trial, and telling the truth about what Kirkwood and Amzi are doing, and
                        then go over to Indianapolis and bring suit for the appointment of a
                        receiver. And, by the way, I'm not as altruistic as I look.
                        I'll take the receivership and you'll be the
                        receiver's attorney, of course. Between us we ought to clear up
                        something handsome, besides rendering a great public service that you can
                        cash in here any way you like."
                    Only that day Judge Walters had granted the request of Wright and Fitch, the
                        Indianapolis attorneys, for a postponement of the trial of a damage suit
                        against the Sycamore Company in which Waterman represented the plaintiff,
                        and this now assumed new significance in the lawyer's mind. If he
                        got before a mass meeting with a chance to arraign the courts for their
                        subservience to corporations, he was confident that it would redound to his
                        credit at the fall election. His affairs were in such shape that some such
                        miracle as his election to Congress was absolutely necessary to his
                        rehabilitation.
                    "You don't think the First National's going under,
                        do you? Bill is n't fool enough to let it come to
                        that?"
                    
                    Holton winked knowingly to whet his auditor's appetite.
                    "I don't think it; I know it! Kirkwood's a
                        merciless devil, and he's got Bill and my hopeful nephew Charlie
                        where the hair's short. If Sam had lived he'd have taken
                        care of this traction business; Sam was a genius, all right. Sam could sell
                        lemons for peaches, and when people made faces he sugared the lemons and
                        proved they were peaches. Sam was no second-story man; he worked on the
                        ground floor in broad daylight. Good old Sam!"
                    A Chicago newspaper had given currency to a rumor that the Sycamore line was
                        soon to be put into the hands of a receiver, and while Kirkwood denied this
                        promptly, there were many disquieting stories afloat as to the fate of the
                        road.
                    The reports of an expert as to the road's physical condition had
                        been reassuring, on the whole, and a thorough audit had placed Kirkwood in
                        possession of all the facts as to the property and its possibilities. Some
                        of the most prominent men in the State had been stockholders in the Sanford
                        Construction Company. Samuel Holton had enrolled in that corporation his
                        particular intimates, who had expected him to "take care of
                        them" as he was in the habit of doing. The list included several
                        former state officials and the benevolent bosses who manipulated the
                        legislature by a perfectly adjusted bi-partisan mechanism. It was with a
                        disagreeable shock that they found that Samuel had departed this life,
                        leaving them to bear the burden of his iniquities.
                    Tom Kirkwood had assembled these gentlemen in the inner room of Wright and
                        Fitch's offices and laid the incontrovertible figures before them,
                        with an alternative that they return their respective shares of the plunder
                        or answer to an action at law. Kirkwood was an absurd person. It was
                        politely suggested that it would be much to his advantage to allow the
                        Sycamore Company to take its course through the courts, under a receiver
                        friendly to the stockholders of the Sanford Construction Company. Kirkwood
                        was informed that things had always been done that way;  but, having no political ambitions or ties, he was little
                        impressed. It seemed to the business politicians weakminded for a man who
                        had "pull" enough to secure employment from one of the
                        most powerful trust companies on the continent to refuse to listen to
                        "reason." It was almost incredible that he should be
                        trying to save the road instead of wrecking it, when there was no money to
                        be made out of saving a trolley line that had been marked for destruction
                        from the day its first tie was laid. Kirkwood smiled coldly upon them and
                        their attorneys when they passed from persuasions to threats. It was
                        difficult to find an effective club to use on a man who was so unreasonable
                        as to threaten them with the long arm of the grand jury. The most minute
                        scrutiny of Kirkwood's private life failed to disclose anything
                        that might be used to frighten him.
                    It had seemed to Kirkwood that the beneficiaries of the construction company
                        should pay into the Sycamore treasury enough money to repair the losses
                        occasioned by dishonest work. Interest on the Sycamore bonds was due the Ist
                        of April. The November payment had been made with money advanced by half a
                        dozen country banks through negotiations conducted by William Holton. On the
                        day that Jack Holton was persuading Alec Waterman to thrust himself forward
                        as the people's protagonist, Kirkwood was tightening the screws on
                        the construction company. If the sum he demanded was not paid by the Ist of
                        April, he assured Samuel Holton's former allies that criminal
                        proceedings would be instituted. As one of the construction crowd was just
                        then much in the newspapers as a probable nominee for a state office,
                        Kirkwood's determination to force a settlement on his own terms was
                        dismaying. The bi-partisan bosses had figured altogether too much in the
                        newspapers, and it was not pleasant to contemplate the opening of the books
                        of the company to public gaze.
                    March prepared to go out like a lion in Montgomery that year. While Alec
                        Waterman was pondering his duty to the public as brought to his attention by
                        Jack Holton, Fate  seemed to take charge of
                        his affairs. On March 28 the whistle of the Sugar Creek Furniture Company
                        failed to rouse the town. The Sugar Creek Company, one of the industries
                        that Paul Fosdick had promoted, had seemed to escape the dark fate that had
                        pursued his other projects, so that the abruptness with which it shut down
                        gave the local financial seismograph a severe wrench.
                    The factory had been one of the largest employers of labor in Montgomery, and
                        its suspension was reported to be due to the refusal of the First National
                        to advance money for its next maturing weekly pay-roll. To several of the
                        workingmen who consulted Waterman about their claims, he broached the matter
                        of a mass meeting in the circuit courtroom to discuss the business
                        conditions of Montgomery. Two hundred men and boys were thrown out of work
                        by the failure of the furniture company; rumors as to the relations between
                        the company and the First National caused the stability of the Holton bank
                        to be debated guardedly; and April Ist was fixed definitely in the minds of
                        the Main Street gossips as the date for drastic action in Sycamore
                        matters.
                    Mr. Amzi Montgomery's frequent absences in Indianapolis had
                        occasioned comment of late. He returned, however, on the evening of the
                        28th, and before the "Bank Open" side of the battered tin
                        sign was presented to Main Street on the morning of the 29th, a number of
                        citizens had called to ask his opinion of the local financial conditions. He
                        answered their anxious inquiries with his habitual nonchalance, leaning
                        against the counter, with his cigar at an angle that testified to unruffled
                        serenity and perfect peace with the world. Amzi had brought home from the
                        capital a new standing collar, taller than he was in the habit of wearing,
                        and from its deep recesses his countenance appeared more than usually chaste
                        and demure. The collar, a dashing bow tie, and a speckled waistcoat that was
                        the most daring expression of sartorial art available at the capital, gave
                        to Amzi an air of uncommon jauntiness.
                    
                    "What about this, Amzi? Is the whole town going to smash?"
                        asked Judge Walters.
                    "Nope. Worst's over. Nothing to worry about."
                    "I've got to appoint a receiver for the furniture company
                        in a few minutes. I hope I'm not going to have to run the whole
                        town through my court."
                    "You won't. The Sugar Creek Furniture Company is a year
                        behind time; I thought it would go down last year. Then they bounced
                        Fosdick, and it naturally picked up a little; but it's hard to
                        overcome a bad start, Judge."
                    "I've politely turned over my court-room for a meeting of
                        the furniture company employees this afternoon. Alec's going to
                        holler; they say he's going to pitch into the traction company and
                        dust off the banks and capital generally."
                    "Good for Alec! He'll do a good job of it. Should
                        n't wonder if he 'd lead a mob down Main Street, hanging
                        all the merchants, bankers, and judges of courts."
                    "That would require more energy than Alec has; his love of the
                        downtrodden is purely vocal."
                    The county treasurer who followed the judge found Amzi disposed to be
                        facetious over the reports that other failures were likely to follow the
                        embarrassment of the furniture company.
                    "Worst's over. Just a little flurry. When there's
                        a rotten apple in the barrel, better get it out."
                    The treasurer jerked his head in the direction of the First National.
                    Amzi met his gaze, took the cigar from his mouth, and looked at the ash.
                    "Thunder! It's all right."
                    "How do you know that!"
                    "I just guess it; that's all."
                    "They say," the treasurer whispered, "that Bill
                        has skipped."
                    "Bill's over there in his bank right now," Amzi
                        replied impatiently.
                    "How do you make that out?"
                    
                    "Because I was talking to him on the 'phone ten minutes
                        ago. If he's skipped, it must have been sudden. Tell people not to
                        borrow trouble when they can borrow money. Money's easy on Main
                        Street."
                    Amzi wobbled his cigar in his mouth the while he smoothed his new waistcoat
                        with both hands. He was feeling good. His house was in order; failures and
                        rumors of failures could not disturb him.
                    This was Saturday, and their spring needs had brought an unusual number of
                        farm-folk to town. The proximity of interest-paying day made an acute issue
                        of Sycamore Traction. Amzi had by no means gathered up all the bonds held by
                        small investors. Book learning has not diminished the husbandman's
                        traditional incredulity: if Sycamore traction bonds were worth seventy to
                        Amzi Montgomery, they were undoubtedly worth eighty, at least, to the
                        confiding original purchasers. Those who had clung to their bonds were
                        disposed to ridicule those who had sold; and yet no one was wholly
                        comfortable, either way. The collapse of the furniture company might prelude
                        a local panic, and farmers and country merchants collected in groups along
                        Main Street to discuss the situation.
                    The Saturday half-holiday in the various Montgomery industries added to the
                        crowd that drifted toward the courthouse at two o'clock, drawn by
                        the announcement that Alec Waterman was to discuss many local issues, which
                        the failure of the furniture company had rendered acute. The circuit
                        court-room was packed with farmers, mechanics, and the usual idlers when
                        Waterman without introduction began to speak.
                    At that moment Amzi Montgomery, in his seersucker coat and with his old straw
                        hat tilted to one side, stood at the door of his bank and observed half a
                        dozen men on the steps of the First National. Amzi, a careful student of his
                        fellow-townsmen, was aware that men and women were passing into the rival
                        bank in larger numbers than usual, even for a Saturday, and that the
                        mellifluous oratory of  Alec Waterman had not
                        drawn from the First National corner a score of idlers who evidently felt
                        that the center of interest lay there rather than at the court-house. Amzi
                        planted himself in his favorite chair in the bank window and watched the
                        crowd increase.
                    By half-past two the town marshal had taken official notice that citizens
                        were gathering about the bank doors, and overflowing from the sidewalk
                        halfway across Main Street, to the interruption of traffic. Women and girls,
                        with bank-books in their hands or nervously fingering checks, conferred in
                        low tones about the security of their deposits. The Citizens'
                        National and the State Trust Company were also receiving attention from
                        their depositors. As three o'clock approached, the Montgomery Bank
                        filled, and the receiving-teller began to assist the paying-teller in
                        cashing checks. Amzi lounged along the lines outside, talking to his
                        customers.
                    "Going to buy automobiles with your money, boys? Thunder! You in
                        town, Jake?"
                    He greeted them all affably, ignoring their anxiety.
                    "Boys, I'll have to get a new shop if business keeps on
                        like this."
                    A depositor who had drawn his money and was anxiously hiding it in his
                        pocket, dropped a silver dollar that rolled away between the waiting
                        lines.
                    "Never mind, gentlemen, we sweep out every night," said
                        Amzi. "Now, let's all understand each other," he
                        continued, tilting his hat over his left ear, and flourishing his cigar.
                        "It's all right for you folks to come and get your money.
                        The regular closing time of banks in this town is 3 P. M., Saturdays
                        included. We've got a right to close in fifteen minutes. But just
                        to show there's no hard feeling, I'm going to change the
                        closing hour to-day from 3 P. M. to 3 A. M. Tomorrow's Sunday, and
                        you can tell folks that's got money here that they won't
                        have any trouble getting their change in time to put it in the collection
                        basket tomorrow morning."
                    
                    A number of depositors, impressed by Amzi's tranquillity, tore up
                        their checks and left the bank. To a woman who asked him what the excitement
                        meant, Amzi explained politely that the town was experiencing what he called
                        a "baby panic."
                    "As an old friend, Martha, I advise you to leave your money here; if
                        I decide to bust, I'll give you notice."
                    Along the two lines, that now extended out upon the sidewalk, there was a
                        craning of necks. A demand from one depositor that he repeat to all what he
                        had said to the woman caused Amzi to retire behind the counter. There he
                        stood upon a chair and talked through the screen,
                    "I don't blame you folks for being nervous. Nobody wants to
                        lose his money. Money is hard to get and harder to keep. But I've
                        never lied across this counter to any man, woman, or child"and
                        then, as though ashamed of this vulgar assertion of rectitude, he
                        added"unless they needed to be lied to."
                    There was laughter at this. The room was packed, and the lines had been
                        broken by the crowd surging in from the street.
                    "You can all have your money. But I hope you won't spend it
                        foolishly or stick it in the chimney at home where it'll burn up. I
                        ain't going to bust, ladies and gentlemen. This town is all right;
                        it's the best little town in Indiana; sound as Sugar Creek bottom
                        corn. This little sick infant panic we've had to-day will turn over
                        and go to sleep pretty soon. As an old friend and neighbor of you all, I
                        advise you to go homewith your money or without it, just as you like.
                        It's all the same to me."
                    "How about the First National?" a voice demanded.
                    Amzi was relighting his cigar. There was a good deal of commotion in the room
                        as many who had been pressing toward the windows withdrew, reassured by the
                        banker's speech.
                    Amzi, with one foot on a chair, the other on the noteteller's
                        counter, listened while the question about the First National was
                        repeated.
                    
                    "I'll say to you folks," said Amzi, his voice
                        clearing and rising to a shrill pipe,"that in my judgment the First
                        National Bank can pay all its claims. In factin fact, I'm dead sure
                        of it!"
                    The crowd began to disperse. Most of those who had drawn their money waited
                        to re-deposit it, and Amzi walked out upon the step to view the situation at
                        the First National, to whose doors a great throng clung stubbornly. The
                        marshal and a policeman were busily occupied in an effort to keep a way open
                        for traffic. Observed by only a few idlers, Tom Kirkwood emerged from the
                        First National's directors' room and walked across to
                        where Amzi stood like a guardian angel before the door of
                        Montgomery's Bank. The briefest colloquy followed between Kirkwood
                        and his quondam brother-in-law.
                    "It's fixed, Amzi."
                    "Thunder, Tom; I did n't know you'd got
                        back."
                    "Got in at one, and have been shut up with Holton ever since.
                        He's seen the light, and we've adjusted his end of the
                        Sycamore business; I'm taking part cash and notes with good
                        collateral. The whole construction crowd have settled, except Charlie, and
                        he'll come inhe's got to. The settlement makes the
                        traction company goodit's only a matter now of spending the money
                        we've got back in putting the property in shape."
                    "That's good, Tom." And Amzi looked toward the
                        courthouse clock. "Bill say anything about me?"
                    "Yes; he most certainly did. He wants you to go over and take charge
                        of his bank!"
                    "Thunder! It's sort o' funny, Tom, how things come
                        round."
                    Kirkwood smiled at Amzi's calmness. He drew from his pocket a folded
                        piece of paper.
                    "Here's your stock certificate, Amzi. Bill asked me to hand
                        it to you. It's in due form. He wanted me to ask you to be as easy
                        on him as you could. I think what he meant was that he'd like it to
                        look like a bona-fide, voluntary sale.  Those ten shares give you the control, and
                        the Sycamore claim wiped out the rest of his holdings. I'm
                        afraid," he added, "there's going to be some
                        trouble. Where's Phil?"
                    "Probably at the court-house hearing her Uncle Alec talk about the
                        money devils. We ought to let a few banks bust, just to encourage Alec.
                        Thunder! Phil's all right!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIII
                    PLEASANT TIMES IN MAIN STREET
                    PHIL, on her way to a tea, reached Main Street shortly
                        before three o'clock. Her forehandedness was due to the fact that
                        her hostess (the wife of the college president) had asked her to perform
                        divers and sundry preliminary offices pertaining to refreshments, and it had
                        occurred to Phil that it would be as well to drop in at the
                        Bartletts' to see whether Rose had sent the cakes she had
                        contracted to bake for the function, as the sophomore who delivered
                        Rose's creations was probably amusing himself at the try-out of
                        baseball material on Mill's Field.
                    Shopkeepers restlessly pacing the sidewalk before the doors of their
                        neglected stores informed Phil of the meeting at the court-room, and of the
                        panicky rumors. No good reason occurred to Phil for absenting herself from a
                        mass meeting at which her Uncle Alec was to speak. Phil liked meetings. From
                        the crest of a stack of chicken crates near the freight depot she had heard
                        Albert Jeremiah Beveridge speak when that statesman had vouchsafed ten
                        minutes to the people of Montgomery the preceding autumn. She had heard such
                        redoubtable orators as William Jennings Bryan, Charles Warren Fairbanks, and
                        "Tom" Marshall, and when a Socialist had spoken from the
                        court-house steps on a rainy evening, Phil, then in her last year in high
                        school, had been the sole representative of her sex in the audience.
                    Waterman was laboriously approaching his peroration when she reached the
                        packed court-room. Men were wedged tightly into the space reserved for the
                        court officials and the bar, and a number stood on the clerk's
                        desk. She climbed upon a chair at the back of the room, the better to see
                        and hear. There were other women and girls presentemployees  of the furniture factorybut it must be
                        confessed that even without their support Phil would not have been
                        embarrassed.
                    Waterman was in fine fettle, and cheers and applause punctuated his
                        discourse.
                    "I am not here to arouse class hatred, or to set one man against
                        another. We of Montgomery are all friends and neighbors. Many of you have
                        lived here, just as I have, throughout your lives. It is for us to help each
                        other in a neighborly spirit. Factories may close their doors, banks may
                        fail, and credit be shaken, but so long as we may appeal to each other in
                        the old terms of neighborliness and comradeship, nothing can seriously
                        disturb our peace and prosperity.
                    "It grieves me, however, to be obliged to confess that there are men
                        among us who have not felt the responsibility imposed upon them as trustees
                        for the less fortunate. I have already touched on the immediate plight of
                        those of you who are thrown out of employment, with your just labor claims
                        unpaid. There are otherand some of them are perhaps in this roomwho
                        entrusted their savings to the Sycamore Traction Company, and who are now at
                        the mercy of the malevolent powers that invariably control and manipulate
                        such corporations. I shall not be personal; I have no feelings against any
                        of those men. But I say to you, men and women of Montgomery, that when I
                        heard this morning from the lips of an industrious and frugal German
                        mechanic that a certain financier of this town had bought from him a
                        traction bond that represented twenty years of savings then my blood boiled
                        with righteous indignation.
                    "My friends, a curious situation exists here. Why is it why is it, I
                        repeat, while one of our fellow-citizens pretends to be trying to safeguard
                        by legal means all the local interests involved in that traction company,
                        another person who stands close to him is buying the bonds of laborers and
                        mechanics, widows and orphans, at little more than fifty per cent of their
                        face value? My friends, when you find a corrupt  lawyer and a rapacious banker in collusion, what chance have the people
                        against them?"
                    Apparently the people had no chance whatever, in the opinion of the intent
                        auditors. The applause at this point was long continued, and Waterman,
                        feeling that he had struck the right chord, hurried on.
                    "Who are these men who have plundered their own people, thrust their
                        hands into the pockets of their fellowcitizens, and filched from them the
                        savings of years? Who are they, I say? My friends, in a community like this,
                        where we are all so closely knit together,where on the Sabbath day we meet
                        in the church porch after rendering thanks unto God for his mercies,where in
                        the midweek prayermeeting we renew and strengthen ourselves for the battle
                        of life,it is a serious matter to stand in a forum of the people before the
                        tabernacle the law has given us for the defense of our liberties, and impugn
                        the motives of our fellows. I shall not
                    "Name them!" chorused a dozen voices.
                    Waterman's histrionic sense responded to the demand. With arm
                        uplifted, he deliberated, turning slowly from side to side. He was a master
                        of the niceties of insinuation. Innuendo he had always found more effective
                        than direct statement. He shook his head deprecatingly, reluctant to yield
                        to the clamor for the names of the human vultures he had been
                        arraigning.
                    "Name them! Tell who they are!"
                    He indulged these cries with a smile of resignation. They had a right to
                        know; but it was left for him, in his superior wisdom, to pass upon their
                        demands.
                    "Hit 'em, Alec! Go for 'em!" yelled a man
                        in the front row.
                    "Why," the orator resumed, "why," he
                        asked, "should I name names that are in every mind in this
                        intelligent audience?" There was absolute quiet as they waited for
                        the names, which he had not the slightest intention of giving.
                    "Why"
                    
                    "Coward!"
                    The carrying power of Phil's voice had been deplored from her
                        earliest youth by her aunts. Her single word, flung across the heads of the
                        auditors, splashed upon the tense silence like a stone dropped suddenly into
                        a quiet pond.
                    "Put him out!" yelled some one who attributed this impiety
                        to the usual obstreperous boy. A number of young fellows in Phil's
                        neighborhood, who knew the source of the ejaculation, broke into laughter
                        and jeers. Alexander Waterman knew that voice; he had seen Phil across the
                        room, but had assumed that her presence was due to her vulgar curiosity, on
                        which his wife had waxed wroth these many years. In his cogitations Phil was
                        always an unaccountable and irresponsible being: it had not occurred to him
                        that she might resent his veiled charges against her father and Amzi.
                        Waterman, by reason of his long experience as a stump speaker, knew how to
                        deal with interruptions. He caught up instantly the challenge Phil had flung
                        at him.
                    "Coward?" he repeated. "I should like to ask you,
                        my fellow-citizens, who is the coward in this crisis? Is it I, who face you
                        to-day clothed in my constitutional guaranty of free and untrammeled speech,
                        to speak upon the issues of this grave crisis; or is it the conspirators who
                        meet in dark rooms to plot and plunder?"
                    Applause and cheers greeted this reply. Men looked at each other and grinned,
                        as much as to say, "Alec knows his business." In
                        Phil's immediate vicinity a number of young men, lost in admiration
                        of her temerity, and not without chivalrous instincts, jeered the
                        orator's reply. In the middle of the room Fred Holton, who had gone
                        to the meeting with some of his farmer neighbors that he met in Main Street,
                        turned at the sound of Phil's voice. Before Waterman, luxuriating
                        in his applause, could resume, Fred was on his feet.
                    "As this was called as a meeting of citizens, I have a right to be
                        here. We have listened for nearly an hour to a speech that has made nothing
                        any clearerthat has, in fact, gone  all round
                        the pump without finding the handle. It 's time we knew what it is
                        the speaker wants done; it's time he came to the point and named
                        these men who have robbed their friends and neighbors. Let's have
                        the names right now before we go any further."
                    "Who's that talking? Put him out!"
                    The meeting was in disorder, and a dozen men were trying to talk. Waterman,
                        smiling patiently, rapped with the official gavel that Judge Walters wielded
                        when counsel, in the heat of argument, transcended the bounds of
                        propriety.
                    "It's Fred Holton," bellowed some one.
                    Waterman smiled in quiet scorn. He had recognized Fred Holton and was ready
                        with his answer. One of his friends who had pushed through the crowd
                        whispered in his ear.
                    "My friends," he began, in the indulgent tone of a grieved
                        parent, "the gentleman who spoke a moment ago was quite right in
                        remarking that this is a meeting of citizens. No one denies his right to
                        speak or to interrupt other speakers if such be his idea of courtesy. But he
                        will pardon me for suggesting that it is remarkable that he of all men
                        should interrupt our friendly conference here and demand that names be
                        mentioned, when, prompted by a sense of delicacy, I have refrained from
                        mentioning his own name in this unpleasant connection. It's a name
                        that has been identified far too closely with the affairs of this town. I
                        should like to know how a member of the Holton family dare come to this
                        meeting, when the suspension of one of our chief industries and the
                        embarrassments of the Sycamore Traction Company are directly attributable to
                        the family of which this young gentleman is a member. And while we sit here
                        in conference, there are grave rumors afloat that we are threatened with
                        even more serious difficulties. Within a few minutes word has reached me
                        that a run is in progress upon certain of our banks." (There was a
                        commotion throughout the room, and those near the doors were already pushing
                        toward the street.) "I beg of you, be not hasty; the hour calls for
                        wise counsel"
                    
                    The shuffling of feet and overturning of chairs deadened the remainder of his
                        speech.
                    Phil escaped quickly from the court-house, and seeing the throng in Main
                        Street began a dtour to reach Montgomery's Bank. Fred caught up
                        with her and begged her to go home.
                    "There's going to be a row, Phil, and you 'd
                        better keep out of the way."
                    "If there's a row, that silly Waterman is
                        responsible," Phil replied. "I'm going to the
                        bank to see Amy."
                    People were flocking to Main Street from all directions, and finding that she
                        persisted in going on, Fred kept close beside her.
                    "He'll scold you if you do; you'd better go
                        home," Fred urged as they reached Franklin Street, a block south of
                        Main, and saw the packed streets at the First National corner.
                    They debated a moment; then Phil was seized with an idea.
                    "Fred, run over to the college and bring all the boys you can find
                        at Mill's Field. Bring them up Main Street singing, and send a
                        flying wedge through the mob;that will smash it. Beat it, before the boys
                        hear the row and mix in!"
                    Fred was off for the athletic field before she had finished speaking, and
                        Phil sought the side door of Montgomery's Bank.
                    The throng at the intersection of Franklin Street and Main faced the First
                        National. When the court-house clock boomed three the clerks inside made an
                        effort to close the doors, and this had provoked a sharp encounter with the
                        waiting depositors on the bank steps. The crowd yelled as it surged in
                        sympathy with the effort to hold the doors open. Some one threw a stone that
                        struck the window in the middle of "National" in the sign,
                        and this caused an outbreak of derisive cheers. An intoxicated man on the
                        steps turned round with difficulty and waved his hat.
                    "Come on, boys; we'll bust the safe and find out whether
                        they 've got any money or not."
                    
                    Some of those who had gained entrance to the bank came out by the side door,
                        and this served to divert attention to Franklin Street for a moment. There
                        were cries that a woman who had received her money had been robbed, and this
                        increased the uproar.
                    When Amzi took a last survey from his bank steps at three o'clock,
                        some one yelled, "Hello, Amzi!" A piece of brick flung
                        with an aim worthy of a nobler cause whizzed past his head and struck the
                        door-frame with a sharp thwack and blur of dust. Amzi looked down at the
                        missile with pained surprise and kicked it aside. His clerks besought him to
                        come in out of harm's way; and yet no man in Montgomery had
                        established a better right than he to stand exactly where he stood and view
                        contemporaneous history in the making.
                    Howls and cat-calls followed the casting of the brick. Amzi lifted his hand
                        to stay the tumult, but in his seersucker coat and straw hat his appearance
                        was calculated to provoke merriment.
                    "Shoot the hat! Where's your earmuffs?" they
                        jeered. He could not make himself heard, and even if his voice had been
                        equal to the occasion no one was in humor to listen to him. Bankers were
                        unpopular in Montgomery that afternoon. No one had ever believed before that
                        Amzi was capable of taking unfair advantage of his fellow-men; and yet
                        Waterman's hearers were circulating the report in Main Street that
                        Amzi had been buying Sycamore bonds at an infamously low price.
                    He flourished his cigar toward the First National, and then pointed it at his
                        own door, but this bit of pantomime only renewed the mirth of the
                        assemblage. It seemed to be the impression that he was trying to advertise
                        his bank, in the fashion of a "demonstrator" in a
                        shop-window. The disorder increased. Some one yelled:
                    "What are you paying for Sycamore bonds?"
                    This was followed by an ominous turning and shifting. Amzi withdrew, closed
                        and locked the bank doors, and  showed his
                        scorn of his calumniators by reversing with deliberation the tin card so
                        that it announced "Bank Shut."
                    Amzi, his dignity ruffled by the reception accorded him, had retired to his
                        private room when a familiar knock sounded on the Franklin Street door and
                        he turned the latch to admit Phil.
                    "You! what you doing down here? What right have you to be running
                        the streets on a day like this?" he blurted, his eyes bulging
                        wrathfully.
                    "Oh, chuck it, Amy! This is the best show we've had since
                        the calliope blew up and killed the elephant in the circus when I was seven
                        years old. I've been to the meeting. The Honorable Alec delivered a
                        noble oration; he told them that everybody, including you and daddy, is
                        crooked; he's the only honest man. It was the supreme and ultimate
                        limite!"
                    "Want to burn me in effigy? Call me a horned
                        plutocrat?"
                    "Oh, he did n't mention you, or daddy either, by name; just
                        hinted that you were both trying to rob the Sycamore
                        bondholders."
                    Amzi put his feet on a chair, settled his hat comfortably on the back of his
                        head, and chewed his cigar meditatively.
                    "Thunder! You'd better keep away from indignation meetings
                        where Alec's going to speak. You're likely to get
                        shot."
                    "Not I, sir. I called him a coward, right there in the meeting. A
                        most unladylike proceeding; indeed, it was, Amy.
                    
                        "When rose the maid upon a chair,
                        Some called her false; none named her fair;
                        Nathless she saw nor sneer nor frown,
                        But 'C-o-w-a-r-d' flung her challenge
                            down."
                    
                    Amzi ignored her coupletsPhil's impromptu verses always embarrassed
                        himand demanded the particulars. He chuckled as she described the meeting.
                        He cross-examined her to be sure that she omitted nothing. Her  report of his brother-in-law's
                        tirade gave him the greatest delight. As they talked, they heard plainly the
                        commotion in the streets.
                    "I like the way you take things," said Phil. "The
                        town's gone crazy, and there's a mob in front of your
                        little toy bank, but you're not even peevish."
                    "Some old schoolmate threw a brick at me awhile ago when I went our
                        for air and that annoyed me," Amzi admitted. "If those
                        fellows out there who have n't any money in any bank, and never
                        will have any, would only go home, I'd do something to relieve the
                        pressure. I hanker for a chance to cross the street, but they won't
                        let me. I called the mayor on the telephone and demanded that he send over
                        the fire department and sprinkle 'em, but he said he could
                        n't unless I 'd turn in an alarmhad the nerve to tell me
                        it would be against the city ordinances! What do you think of that, Phil?
                        Guess the police force is under the bed at home. But I can wait.
                        There's nothing like waiting. Take it from me that you'd
                        better trot along to your tea. You're rather cute in that hat. I
                        suppose it burnt a hole in a ten-dollar-bill."
                    "Twenty-five, Amy."
                    "No wonder there 's a panic! Go out and show yourself, so
                        they can see what a plutocrat looks like. I guess that would cause
                        'em to break windows all right."
                    "Ungrateful old man! Main Street will be opened for traffic in a few
                        minutes, thanks to the head under the hat you feign to despise. I sent Fred
                        over to the college to bring the boys down to clean things up.
                        They're about due, methinks."
                    "Fred in town?"
                    "Why ask? It's Saturday and he's a
                        farmer."
                    "Your thinker thinks, Phil. Would that I loved prayermeeting as much
                        as you love trouble! As trustee of Madison, I wish you'd left the
                        boys at play. That last Washington's Birthday row almost broke up
                        the college."
                    Phil jumped down from the table suddenly and flung the  door open. Above the murmur of the restless shuffling crowd
                        rose the sound of singing.
                    The sunny afternoon had brought to Mill's Field budding baseballists
                        and candidates for track teams and a gallery of critics of their
                        performances. Fred Holton's name was written high in the athletic
                        records of Madison, and a few words bawled from the bleachers served to
                        assemble all the students in sight.
                    "There 's an ugly mob downtown, boys; and it may do
                        mischief if it hangs together until dark. If we can pry 'em apart,
                        they'll go home and forget it."
                    Fifty students immediately formed in line. "No clubs or sticks,
                        boys. We'll march down Main Street in good order and see what a
                        peaceful demonstration will do. Forward! March!"
                    As they crossed the campus at double-quick, students poured out of the
                        library and joined the battalion. Others came tumbling out of the fraternity
                        houses in Buckeye Lane, anxious to join in the lark. Before entering Main
                        Street, Fred gave his last orders, which were accepted without question from
                        an alumnus whom they had all learned to know of late as a sympathetic and
                        stimulating visitor to the Gym, and the adviser for the Thanksgiving
                        football game in which they had scored a victory over the hosts of
                        Purdue.
                    Two blocks from the bank they re-formed in four lines, extending from curb to
                        curb, and went forward to the strains of "Old
                        Madison":
                    
                        "What shall we do for Madison, for Madison, for
                            Madison?
                        What shall we do for Madison, our college and her
                            men?"
                    
                    To the familiar strains of the college song, Montgomery had frequently wept
                        not without reason, for the young Madisonians had been much given in recent
                        years to ebullitions of college spirit. The timid mayor heard it now, looked
                        out upon the lines of marching students, and pulled down  his office blinds to avoid witnessing the
                        inevitable collision between town and gown.
                    As the students approached, women and timorous men began trying to escape.
                        Fred signaled to the yell leader, who began beating time, and the street
                        rang with the college cheer. They gave it over and over again; they cheered
                        the college and every bank in town, and between cheers Fred moved the lines
                        forward. The mechanics and farmers, who, alarmed for the security of their
                        savings, had formed the nucleus of the crowd, began to disperse before the
                        advance of the students, but the sidewalks filled with those who expected an
                        encounter and wished to view it in safety. Merchants closed and barred their
                        doors against possible invasion. The rougher element, that had attached
                        itself to the throng and given it the semblance of a mob, now organized
                        hastily for a counter-demonstration.
                    "Smash the college dudes!" bawled a big fellow, throwing
                        himself forward as leader. There was a rush and a sharp struggle. The
                        collegians stood fast. The town phalanx withdrew to Franklin Street, and,
                        considerably increased, rushed again upon the collegians. A lively
                        fist-fight now engaged the vanguard for a minute, to the delight of the
                        spectators. Hard blows were struck on both sides. While this was in
                        progress, Fred withdrew the rear ranks of his army, massed them compactly,
                        and led them in a gallant charge through the shattered line of their
                        comrades, against the enemy. The students wavered at the moment of
                        collision; there was sharp tackling and the line broke, closed again, and
                        swept on, beyond Franklin Street and for half a block further; then effected
                        a quick about-face in readiness for another charge but found the field
                        clear. Some one on the packed sidewalk proposed a cheer for the college, and
                        it was given with a will, and the collegians resumed their cheering. A few
                        missiles flung by the vanquished town men rained upon them, but the war was
                        over. Fred's lines were flung across the intersecting streets like
                        pickets, and, impressed by their quiet order, the belligerent town men began
                        to  mingle peacefully with the lingering crowd
                        on the pavements.
                    Mr. Amzi Montgomery appeared on the steps of his bank, and glanced up and
                        down the street, and at the courthouse clock, like a pigeon emerging from
                        its cote after a shower. Phil, having been warned to remain inside,
                        naturally joined him an instant later. Amzi was saluted with a cheer in
                        recognition of his dignity as treasurer of Madison's board of
                        trustees,a greeting he acknowledged by puffing his cheeks and guardedly
                        lifting his hat. And all these things pleased Main Street. An attack on the
                        First National had been averted; the students had made amends for many
                        affronts to municipal dignity; and it was in the air that other and equally
                        interesting incidents would add further to the day's
                        entertainment.
                    The jubilant yell leader, seeing Phil beside Amzi, decided that she, too, was
                        deserving of attention.
                    "For the girl on the bank stepsall together!"
                    While this rah-rahing was in progress, Amzi left the steps and started across
                        the street. Now, while Amzi Montgomery had been seen of all men in all years
                        and at all seasons, standing on the steps of his bank in the old straw hat,
                        with his seersucker coat buttoned tightly round his sturdy figure, he had
                        never before been known to descend into Main Street in that garb. The crowd
                        immediately began closing in upon him and Fred detached a squad of his
                        brawniest men to act as the banker's bodyguard.
                    Amzi moved with great serenity towards the First National Bank, and appeared
                        to be examining the sunburst the hostile stone had stamped upon the
                        plate-glass window. Amzi never hurried, and he appeared to be in no haste
                        now. Main Street was pleased that he deliberated. The longer the
                        entertainment lasted the better. The door of the First National had been
                        closed with little difficulty during the diversion afforded by the arrival
                        of the college men, but the steps and sidewalk were filled. Amzi looked over
                        the crowd musingly, and beckoned to Fred.
                    
                    "Get me a box to stand on and a piece of soaplaundry soap. I want
                        to"
                    He waved his cigar toward the window in vague explanation, and Fred dived
                        into a grocery and came back with the articles demanded. Main
                        Street's curiosity had never been so whetted and teased. If it had
                        been any one but Amzi; but it was so unmistakably Amzi! Amzi placed the box
                        under the window and stood upon it. Then with characteristic nonchalance he
                        removed the wrapper from the cake of soap, while the crowd surged and
                        shuffled, filling the street again in its anxiety to miss nothing. Amzi
                        broke the bar of soap in two, and calmly trimmed half of it to serve as a
                        crayon. As he began to write upon the glass, his guards were hard-pressed to
                        hold back the throng that seemed bent upon pushing the banker through his
                        rival's window. To ease the tension the boys struck up
                    
                        "The pirates of the Wabash,
                        A jolly crowd are they."
                    
                    Amzi wrote slowly, in a large round hand, beginning immediately under the
                        "First National Bank" lettering. The faint tracings of the
                        soap were legible only a few yards away and the yell-leader began reading
                        for the benefit of the crowd. And this was Amzi's announcement: 
                            
                                
                                    I hereby guarantee all deposits in this bank.
                                    Interest on Sycamore Traction bonds will be paid here April
                                        1. Persons from whom I have bought such bonds may redeem
                                        same at price I paid for them, without discount.
                                    
                                        A. MONTGOMERY.
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    When he had completed his first sentence, he paused to inspect it. Murmurs of
                        astonishment gave way to shouts of approval, and then the street grew silent
                        as the remainder was read word by word.
                    "Let her go now, for A. Montgomeree!"
                        cried the yellleader, and while necks craned and men jostled and pushed,  the students cheered. When Amzi had written,
                        "at the price I paid for them," he made a period, and
                        then, after a moment's reflection, drew out his handkerchief and
                        erased it to add"without discount."
                    He threw away the soap and began to retrace his steps, but the whole town
                        seemed now to have massed itself in the intersecting streets. The nearest
                        students flung themselves together as an escort, and amid cheers Amzi
                        returned to his own bank, where Phil opened the door and demanded to know
                        what he had been doing to be cheered as only a football hero is cheered when
                        his name is read at commencement.
                    "Thunder!" said Amzi. "I just wanted to take the
                        gas out of Alec's speech. What are those fools doing
                        now?"
                    Phil, Fred, and Amzi, with several of the students who had acted as the
                        banker's bodyguard, gathered at the front window. Amzi's
                        announcement that the Sycamore interest would be paid had brought Kirkwood
                        into the minds of many who knew of his efforts to save the company. His name
                        shouted here and there in the street directed attention to his office
                        windows. As a former member of the faculty of Madison, Kirkwood appeared
                        usually on the platform at commencement, and now that he was mentioned the
                        students improvised a cheer for him that Kirkwood's building flung
                        back at Montgomery's Bank. The demonstration continued with
                        increased volume, until finally Kirkwood opened a window and looked down. A
                        shout rose as he appeared. The tears sprang to Phil's eyes as she
                        saw her father's tall figure, his stoop accentuated as he bent
                        under the window. He had really achieved at last! She only vaguely grasped
                        the import of what Amzi had told her in a few abrupt sentences after his
                        return to the bank, but her heart beat fast at the thought that her father
                        shared in the day's honors. He had been of real service to his
                        fellow-townsmen and they were now demanding a speech. He bowed and vanished;
                        but when the cheering was renewed and long continued, he came back, and when
                        silence fell upon the crowd (Phil wondered if they, too, felt  the pathos in him that had always touched
                        her, and which just then brought the tears to her eyes!) he spoke slowly and
                        clearly.
                    "My friends, this is the best town and its people are the best and
                        kindest people in the world. If I have done anything to win your praise I am
                        glad. This community is bound to prosper, for it is founded, not upon
                        industry and thrift alone, but upon faith and honor and helpfulness; and
                        these, my good friends, are the things that endure forever."
                    "I could n't hear that," said Amzi to Phil, as her
                        father disappeared into his office amid the loudest cheers of the day,
                        "but I reckon Tom said about the right thing."
                    "I'm sure he did," replied Phil, drying her eyes,
                        "and it's all true, too!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIV
                    THE FORSAKEN GARDEN
                    IT'S pleasant, on the whole, to do something
                        worth doing; to make grass grow where it has never grown before; to put the
                        last touch to a canoe-paddle of exactly the right weight and balance; to
                        bring to something approximating one's ideal of a sound sentence
                        the last stubborn, maddening clutter of words in a manuscript that has grown
                        from a penscratch on the back of an envelope into a potential book. And Tom
                        Kirkwood was not without his sense of satisfaction. He had without
                        litigation straightened the Sycamore Company's financial tangles.
                        Its physical deficiencies were being remedied and its service brought to
                        standard. He had never in his life felt so conscious of his powers. He was
                        out of debthaving paid back two thousand dollars Amzi had loaned him in the
                        fall, after Phil had raised the red flag of danger in their affairs. The
                        load was off his back; men spoke to him in the street with a new cordiality;
                        the "Evening Star," in an excess of emotion following the
                        taking-over of the First National Bank by Amzi and all the moving incidents
                        connected with the drama of Main Street's greatest day,the
                        "Evening Star" had without the slightest provocation,
                        declared that the Honorable Thomas Kirkwood was just the man for governor.
                        The Desbrosses Trust & Guaranty Company had not only paid him
                        handsomely, but was entrusting him with the rehabilitation of a traction
                        company in Illinois that was not earning dividends.
                    He came back to Montgomery to try some cases at the April term of court and
                        sent his trunk to the Morton House.
                    "It is n't square, daddy," said Phil, breaking in
                        upon him at his office on the day of his arrival. "We were to open
                        the  house again when you had finished at
                        Indianapolis. And here you are, not even telling me you were
                        coming."
                    The office was dingier and dustier than ever. She abused him for not at least
                        giving her a chance to clean it against his coming.
                    "I have to be off again in a week; it did n't seem worth
                        while to put you to the trouble of opening the house just for
                        that," he replied evasively. His own affairs again occupied his
                        mind, and the sight of Phil gave a keen edge to his curiosity as to her life
                        at Amzi's.
                    "Your new suit is certainly some clothes, and a glimpse of that
                        four-in-hand makes the world a nobler and better place to live in! If the
                        Indianapolis boulevards can do that for you, it's too bad I did
                        n't know it long ago. I have an idea"and she paused
                        pensively in the act of dusting a chair"I'm a good deal
                        worried by the idea that you ought to be mussed!"
                    He pleaded mockingly for mercy, calling attention to her inconsistency in
                        admiring his raiment while at the same time threatening it with
                        destruction.
                    "You seem to have been to the dressmaker yourself. How's
                        your bank account, Phil? I suppose your uncle will have to be more careful
                        about overdrafts now that he has a national bank."
                    "Oh, I'm not broke. And"suddenly
                        serious"I must tell you something, daddy. I've been
                        waiting for a chance to ask you if you cared; it did n't seem right
                        not to ask you; and, of course, if you mind, I won't."
                    He smiled at her earnestness, her unusual indirection. She was immensely
                        grown up; there were new manifestations of her otherwiseness. He noted
                        little sophisticated tricks of manner that reminded him vaguely of some one
                        else.
                    "Amy says it's all right for me to do it, but that I must
                        ask you; and mamma says that, too."
                    Her preluding roused apprehensions. What might not have happened in these
                        weeks that Phil had spent with  Lois? He
                        observed his daughter with a new intentness. She drew a handkerchief from
                        her sleeve and touched it lightly, with an un-Phil-like gesture to her nose;
                        and an instant later, with an almost imperceptible movement of her head,
                        resettled her hat. She had acquiredquite unconsciously he did not questiona
                        new air. She was his old Phil, but the portrait had been retouched here and
                        there, and was reminiscent in unaccountable ways of some one else very like
                        and very different.
                    "Yes, Phil, come out with it," he said, finding her eyes
                        upon him in a wide, unseeing gazeand that, too, he now remembered. She had
                        taken on, as young girls do, the superficial graces and innocent
                        affectations of an older person. Such perfectly natural and pardonable
                        imitation is induced by admiration; and Lois had been a woman of
                        fascinations in old times! He had no reason for believing that she had
                        changed; and it had been clear to him that first day of Lois's
                        return that she had laid strong hold upon Phil's imagination.
                    "Mamma wants to give me some money: she has already done some nice
                        things for me. She bought this hat and suit; but she wants to do
                        more."
                    Kirkwood frowned. Lois had no right to come back and steal Phil away from
                        him. He was at once jealous, suspicious. He, too, had assumed that
                        Lois's return had not been voluntary; that she had come back of
                        necessity and flung herself upon Amzi's charity. It would be quite
                        like her to try to tempt Phil with a handful of trinkets.
                    "It is n't likely that she has much to give you; but before
                        you accept anything of importance you should be sure that it's a
                        proper gift for her to offer, that she can afford to do it."
                    "There does n't seem to be any question about that, daddy.
                        What she wants to do is to give me a whole lot of moneyenough to make me
                        really rich. She wants to put one hundred thousand dollars in a trusteeship
                        for me."
                    There was consternation in his quick glance. Nothing in his knowledge of Lois
                        justified a belief that she would ever,  by
                        any proper and reputable means, command any such sum.
                    "You must be mistaken, Phil. You must have got the figures wrong.
                        It's more likely a thousand. You know mathematics was never a
                        strong point with you!"
                    "It's this way, you see, daddy. She made a lot of money in
                        lucky investmentsmines, real estate, and things like that. She told me a
                        little about it; as though it were a great joke. But she is very clever; she
                        did it all by herself and no one knows it, except just Amy; and she told me
                        I might tell you, so you 'd understand. She even said to say to
                        you" and Phil paused, knitting her brows. To be repeating as from a
                        stranger a message from her mother to her father was a fresh phase of the
                        unreal situation created by her mother's return. "She said
                        to tell you she came by it honestly; that it was n't tainted
                        money!"
                    And Phil laughed nervously, not knowing how her father would take this. He
                        seemed depressed, in the old familiar fashion; and she could not know the
                        reason of it, or that the magnitude of his former wife's resources
                        and her wish to divide with her daughter rallied all manner of suspicions
                        round his jealousy.
                    "She said that either Amy could manage it for me, or that if you
                        liked she would be perfectly willing to turn it over to you. She was very
                        kind about it, daddy; really she was."
                    "I'm not questioning that, Phil. It's a little
                        staggering, that's all."
                    "But, of course," she ran on eagerly, "it would
                        n't make any difference between you and me. I know you have done
                        everything for me. Please don't ever think I forget that, daddy.
                        And if you have any feeling about it, please say no. I don't want
                        money, just to be having it. We've always agreed that money is
                        n't the main thing in life."
                    "It's rather necessary, though, as we've found by
                        experience," he replied, with a rueful smile.
                        "I've done pretty badly, Phil; but things are brighter.
                        I'm able now to begin putting some money away for you myself, and I
                        shall do it,  of course, just the same. But as
                        to your mother's offer, you must accept it; it's a large
                        sum, far more than I could ever command. It makes you independent; it
                        changes the future for you, puts things within your reach that have been
                        clear out of the question. And it's very generous on her part to
                        tell you to refer the matter to me. I assume," he added,
                        "that she's keeping enough for herself; there might be
                        some difficulty later on if she didn't do that."
                    "Oh," said Phil, with an unconscious note of pride that did
                        not escape him, "she has plenty; she's richer, I suppose,
                        than almost anybody around here. She did n't ask me not to tell you
                        anythingshe's not like thatso you may as well know that she gave
                        Amy a lot of money to help him set up the new bank. It's so funny
                        that I can't help laughing. The whole familyone's aunts, I
                        meanthink she came back to sponge off of Amy, and they don't know
                        she's going to own almost as much as he does in the new Montgomery
                        National. I get to giggling when I see those women strutting by the house
                        with their chins up, but mamma does n't pay the least attention. I
                        don't believe she thinks about them at all; she's had the
                        house fixed overpitched a lot of Amy's old furniture into the
                        alleyand is having the garden done by a landscape gardener she imported from
                        Chicago. And those poor women are fretting themselves to death, thinking
                        it's Amy's money she's spending. Yesterday she
                        ordered a seven thousand dollar automobile by telegraph,just like that!and
                        when it anchors in front of Amy's gate there'll be some
                        deaths from heart failure in that neighborhood."
                    Kirkwood's sometime sisters-in-law had been three sharp thorns in
                        his side; and Phil's joy at the prospect of their discomfiture when
                        they beheld their sister rolling about in an expensive motor was not without
                        justification. Lois's prosperity was, however, deeply mystifying.
                        It flashed upon him suddenly that he did not in the least know this Lois of
                        whom Phil had been speaking: she was certainly not the young woman, scarcely
                        out of her girlhood, who had so  shamelessly
                        abandoned him. And over this thought stumbled another: he had never known
                        her! As he reflected, his eyes roamed to a large calendar on the wall over
                        Phil's head. This was the 12th of April, his wedding-day. The date
                        interested him only passively; it had long ago ceased to affect him
                        emotionally.
                    He meant to speak to Nan before he left town and endeavor once more to
                        persuade her that Lois's return had made no difference. As he swung
                        idly in his chair he sought to analyze his feelings. Those little tricks of
                        manner that Phil imitated so unconsciously kept recurring and he tried to
                        visualize the Lois of the present as she must be;clever, impulsive in her
                        generosities, heedless, indifferent. In all his conjecturing since Christmas
                        he had experienced no longing to have her back; nothing beyond a mild
                        impersonal curiosity as to how time had dealt with her.
                    The success that had attended his labors had strengthened all the fibers of
                        his will; he was the master of himself, a man again. He had demonstrated to
                        his own surprise and satisfaction that he could devise a plan and put it
                        through; that he could bring an iron hand to his dealings with men. And
                        buoyed up by this fresh knowledge he was impatient at the frustration of any
                        of his plans and hopes. Lois had shaken down the pillars of his life once;
                        but she could not repeat that injury. He had built himself a new argosy and
                        found a new companion for his voyaging. Nan should marry him; if she liked
                        they would remove to Indianapolis to escape gossipy tongues; but he had
                        definitely determined that the marriage should not be delayed. He was a free
                        man and he meant to exercise and enjoy his freedom. He had taken soundings
                        where he had gone down on that first venture and touched nowhere any trace
                        of the wreck; the waters of oblivion rippled listlessly over those unmarked
                        shoals.
                    He swung round with an uncomfortable sense that Phil had been watching him as
                        she bent forward, her elbow resting on the arm of one of the old office
                        chairs, her hand against her cheek. That had been one of Lois's
                        ways and  Phil's brown eyes were very
                        like Lois's! He did not want Phil to attribute his long reverie to
                        retrospective regrets or present longings.
                    "Well, Phil; I've got to go to the court-house to see Judge
                        Walters. About that money, it's perfectly right for you to accept
                        it; but I think it best that your Uncle Amzi should have the care of it.
                        It's a considerable responsibility, however, and you must let him
                        know that you appreciate his doing it; and I'll speak to him about
                        it myself. If you're going home you can walk as far as the
                        court-house with me."
                    He had spoken briskly, to emphasize his own indifference to Lois and her
                        money.
                    While Kirkwood was collecting some papers, Phil, after moving restlessly
                        about and glancing down at Amzihe happened just then to be standing on the
                        bank steps talking to an agent of the Comptroller's office who had
                        been dispatched from Washington to observe the metamorphosis of the First
                        National into the Montgomery National,Phil, with an embarrassment that was
                        new to her relations with her father, asked diffidently,
                    "Shall I say anything to mammaI mean about the money?"
                    This was not at all what she had meant to say. She had hoped that he would
                        send some message to her mother. It was incredible that the wires should be
                        so utterly broken between them as to make all communication impossible. They
                        were both so much to her liking; in her own heart admiration and love
                        enfolded them both so completely that her spirit chafed at the thought of
                        standing first with one and then with the other on the respective sides of
                        the barricade that had risen between them. Her father replied brusquely:
                    "No; that's all, I believe, Phil."
                    As they walked toward the court-house, Lois passed on the opposite sidewalk.
                        It is not against Montgomery conventions to nod to friends across Main
                        Street or even to pause and converse across that thoroughfare if one is so
                        disposed. Phil nodded to her mother. She was unable to tell  whether her father was conscious that his
                        former wife was so near; he lifted his hat absently, seeing that Phil was
                        speaking to some one.
                    "By the way, Phil, have you been in the house lately the old place,
                        I mean? Amzi's carpenter tells me the wind has torn off the
                        water-spouts and that the veranda posts have rotted badly."
                    He had so rarely mentioned the long-abandoned house that she was startled. He
                        did not care! This was the most conclusive proof possible that he no longer
                        cared; and the thought of it did not make her happy. Clearly Love was not,
                        after all, a limitless dominion, without other bounds than those set by the
                        farthest stars, but a narrow, dark, and unstable realm. That these two
                        should dwell in the same town, walk the same street, at the same hour,
                        without any desire to see and speak to each other, was the strangest of
                        phenomena.
                    "Drop in to-morrow and have luncheon with me at the hotel. I want to
                        see all of you I can while I'm here," he remarked when
                        they reached the court-house.
                    "Very well, daddy."
                    That evening, after he had eaten the hotel supper with a printed brief for
                        company, Kirkwood went to the Bartletts', but no one answered his
                        summons and he turned away disappointed. Thinking they were probably at some
                        neighbor's house he decided to walk about and return later. His
                        idle roaming led him past Center Church. It was prayer-meeting night, and
                        through the open windows floated a hymn sung waveringly by the small
                        gathering of the faithful. It was here, on just such an April night, that he
                        and Lois had sworn to love and cherish each other to the end of their days.
                        He had been profoundly moved that night, standing before the reverend
                        president of the college in the crowded church and repeating his vows after
                        the kindly, lovable old man. And he remembered how, as they left the church,
                        the assembled students had shown their good-will in ringing cheers. But
                        these memories had lost their poignancy. Verily, he did not care!
                    
                    Finding himself presently before Amzi's house, he remembered without
                        emotion that Lois was established there. It was an ironic fling of the dice
                        that had brought her back prosperous and presumably happy to lure Phil away
                        from him! He walked slowly; the proximity of his recreant wife gave him
                        neither pang nor thrill. He loitered that the test might be the more
                        complete.
                    A man had been walking toward him from the farther side of the Montgomery
                        place, and something furtive in his movements caused Kirkwood to pause.
                        Then, after halting uncertainly and fumbling at the chain that held the
                        Kirkwood gate together, the man retraced his steps, and guardedly let
                        himself into the Fosdicks' yard. Kirkwood listened, and hearing no
                        further sounds dismissed the matter. It now occurred to him to visit his own
                        property, whose decrepitude Amzi had brought to his attention, and finding
                        that he had matches and the house key, he lifted the chain from the rickety
                        gate and passed into the garden. Kirkwood was preoccupied with the idea of
                        putting the house and lot in order and selling it. Now that he was confident
                        that it no longer held any associations for him, he was in haste to be rid
                        of it. He would sell the place and invest the proceeds for Phil. He smiled
                        ironically as he remembered the disparity between his own fortunes and those
                        of his former wife. He did not resent her prosperity; he did not understand
                        it; but if it was the way of the gods to visit fortune upon the unrighteous,
                        so much the worse for the gods.
                    A brick walk curved round the house, and as he was about to step from it to
                        the veranda he heard voices that came seemingly from the jutting corner of a
                        wing that had been his library. He had no wish to be found there. Very
                        likely the yard was visited frequently by prowlers; and there was a beaten
                        path across the rear which had been for years a short cut between
                        Amzi's and his sisters' houses. He was in no mood for a
                        meeting with any intruder who might be there at this hour, and he was about
                        to steal back the way he had  come when a
                        man's voice rose suddenly in anger. A woman replied, evidently
                        counseling a lower tone.
                    "Here in Tom's graveyard is a fitting place to talk over
                        our affairs. You need n't be in such a hurry to go. We may as well
                        fix this thing up now and be done with it. I'm broke; I have
                        n't got a cent, and it's tough, I can tell you. But
                        it's some satisfaction to know that Will's broke, too. I
                        took care that he got his, all right. The Holtons are all down and out.
                        Will's as poor as I am, and my gay nephew Charlie's busy
                        dodging the sheriff. Not much left for Will now but to go out and rustle for
                        life insurancethe common fate of inglorious failure."
                    The woman's voice rose crisp and assured on the tender spring
                        air.
                    "Your note said it was something of importance. I can't
                        stay here all night. I have n't any money for you and your family
                        troubles don't interest me. And let me say, once and for all, that
                        I don't propose to have you following me round. This is a big world
                        and there's room in it for both of us."
                    Kirkwood could not see them, though he heard perfectly every word that had
                        been spoken, and he could not escape without attracting their attention.
                    "See here, Lois, I've just heard a whisper from Seattle
                        that you cleaned up a lot of money out there. Good joke on me, was
                        n't it? I thought you were pretty thick with the Barkleys, but I
                        did n't know he had let you into his deals. I want my share; if it
                        had n't been for me, you would n't have known Seattle was
                        on the map. It's only fair; I'll call it fifty thousand
                        and let it go at that."
                    "Nothing; absolutely not a penny! I advise you to make yourself
                        scarce. And if you attempt to annoy me while I'm here,
                        I'll do something very unpleasant about it. I agreed to meet you
                        to-night merely to tell you that."
                    Kirkwood heard her step on the walk, and drew back. The light of the moon was
                        full upon her. She was bareheaded and wrapped in a long coat. It was thus
                        that he saw her again, in the shadow of the house where together they had
                             kindled their hearth,in the garden plot
                        whose disorder and ruin were eloquent of her broken faith.
                    She was moving away swiftly, with the light step he remembered. Holton gained
                        her side in a long leap.
                    "No, you don't! Not by a damned sight, you
                        don't!"
                    Kirkwood saw them both clearly in their attitude of antagonism the wife who
                        had wronged him, the friend who had betrayed him.
                    "You don't shake me so easily. I want my share of the
                        profits. It was a low trickgetting rid of me so you could spend your money
                        on yourself; humiliating me by showing me up as a drunkard in the divorce
                        court. I owe you a good one for that!"
                    "Not a cent!" she repeated, lifting her head in mockery of
                        his clumsy attempt to becloud the real issue.
                    Her taunting tone maddened him; without warning he gripped her throat
                        roughly. His tightening clasp stifled her cry as she struggled to free
                        herself.
                    Kirkwood stood suddenly beside them, caught Holton by the collar, and flung
                        him back. Holton's arm was up instantly to ward off an expected
                        blow. He turned guardedly, and his arm fell as he recognized Kirkwood.
                    "So that's the ticket! It was a trap, was it?" And
                        then his anger mounting, he flung round at Lois. "So this is what
                        brought you back! Well, it does n't lower my price any! He can have
                        you and be damned to him, but I double my price!"
                    "This is my property," said Kirkwood coldly; "if
                        you don't leave instantly, I'll turn you over to the
                        police."
                    "She's come back to you, has she! Well, you need
                        n't be so set up about it. She's anybody's woman
                        for the asking; you ought to have learned that"
                    Kirkwood's stick fell with a sharp swish across his shoulders.
                    "Leave these grounds at once or I'll send you to the
                        lockup!"
                    Holton looked coweringly from one to the other. The strangeness of the
                        encounter was in the mind of each: that  the
                        years had slipped away and that Kirkwood was defending her from the man for
                        whom she had abandoned him. An unearthly quiet lay upon the garden.
                        Children's voices rose faintly on the silvery April night from the
                        grounds beyond. Far away, beyond the station, a locomotive puffed slowly on
                        a steep grade. The noises of the town seemed eerily blurred and distant.
                    "Clear out! Your business here is finished. And don't come
                        back," said Kirkwood firmly.
                    "She asked me to meet her here;you must have known it; it was a
                        damned vile trick" Holton broke out violently; but Kirkwood touched
                        him with the end of his stick, pointed toward the gate, and repeated his
                        order more sharply. Holton whirled on his heel, found an opening in the
                        hedge, and left them, the boughs snapping behind him.
                    Kirkwood was the first to speak.
                    "He's gone, I think. I'll watch until you get
                        safely back to Amzi's."
                    He lifted his hat; his tone was one of dismissal and she turned as though to
                        leave, hesitated and drew a step nearer.
                    "If you don't mind, I'd like to speak to you a
                        moment. I should n't have thought of seeking you, of course, but
                        this makes it possible."
                    He made no reply, but waited, leaning on his stick. Her foot tapped the walk
                        nervously; as she readjusted the cloak it exhaled the faint scent of orris
                        that reached him as though wafted down some dim aisle of memory.
                    "I want to speak about Phil. It was to see Phil that I came back. I
                        want you to know that I would n't take her away from you if I
                        could. There must be no misunderstanding about this. Whatever I am or have
                        been or may be, I am not base enough for that."
                    He was silent for a moment.
                    "That is something that is not in your hands or mine," he
                        answered. "Phil is the mistress of her own affairs. I was perfectly
                        willing that she should go to Amzi's to be with  you; it's for her to decide whether
                        she ever comes back to me."
                    "That isgenerous; very generous," she replied, as though,
                        after hesitating before using the word, her second thought confirmed the
                        choice.
                    "And about the money; she told me she spoke to you about that
                        to-day. I appreciate your attitude. I want you to understand that
                        I'm not trying to bribe her. I'm glad of a chance to say
                        that I would do nothing to spoil her loyalty to you. You deserve that; and I
                        have no illusions about myself. If I thought my coming would injure heror
                        you in any way, I should go at once and never come back. But I had to see
                        her, and it has all happened fortunatelyAmzi's kindness, and
                        hersand your own! Phil is so dearso lovable!"
                    Her last words broke in a sob, but she quickly regained her self-control.
                    "I'm glad," he replied, "if you are not
                        disappointed in her. We have been very closecomrades and friends; but she
                        has gone beyond me; and that was inevitable. She's an independent
                        spiritquite capable of managing her own affairs."
                    "I don't think she will ever go beyond you," Lois
                        answered. "She has told me all the storyand I have read a good deal
                        into it that she did n't tell me. And I am very grateful. She did
                        n't have to tell me that you had not embittered her against me; her
                        way of meeting me was reassuring as to that. It was fine of you; it was
                        n't what I expected or deserved."
                    Unconsciously they had begun walking back and forth in the path, and once, as
                        they turned, they looked at each other fixedly for the first time. It was
                        the deliberate frank scrutiny of old acquaintances who seek affirmation of
                        fading memories after long absence.
                    "As to the money, I want to protect her, as far as money can do it,
                        from hardship and need hereafter. I don't want you to think I offer
                        it as restitutionorpenance. I have plenty for myself; I'm giving up
                        nothing in doing it."
                    
                    He tried to phrase carefully his disavowal of any thought that her gift was a
                        penitential act. He confessed that he had been concerned for Phil's
                        future; and that so far he had not been able to provide for her in case of
                        his death. This brought him to Amzi, whose devotion to Phil he praised
                        warmly. They met immediately upon the safe ground of Amzi's
                        nobility. Then they recurred to Phil. Presently as they passed the veranda,
                        she sat down on the steps and after a moment he seated himself beside her.
                        They had sat thus, looking out upon the newly planned garden, when the
                        mystery and wonder of Phil's coming filled their hearts and
                        minds.
                    "I've thought," she said, bending forward with her
                        arms folded upon her knees, "that Phil ought to travelthat I might
                        take her away for a little while." She waited for his assent; but
                        when he was silent, she hurried on to set herself right in this.
                        "But I don't believe that would be best. Not with me.
                        Trotting around with me over there would n't do her any good. It
                        might spoil her point of view, which is just rightsound and healthy. The
                        child's a genius. She wants to writeof course you know
                        that."
                    He did not know it. Jealousy pricked him at this sudden revelation of
                        something in Phil that he had not with all his opportunity realized.
                    "She's very clever," he responded tamely.
                    "It's more than that! She has a trunkful of stuff
                        she's writtensome of it rubbish; some of it amazingly
                        good."
                    He resented these appraisements of Phil's literary experiments. It
                        was disagreeable to hear from Phil's mother things which he should
                        have learned for himself. His trained analytical faculties were disturbed;
                        he had regarded the theory of the superior keenness of maternal perception
                        as rather fantastic. Phil had never confided her ambitions to him; in fact,
                        it was now clear that she had concealed them, perhaps fearing his
                        criticisms.
                    "She's so droll!'and Lois laughed at some
                        recollection. "She has a delicious humorher own special flavor.  All these people in Montgomery are story-book
                        people to her. She's a deep onethat little Phil! She has written
                        pages about themand the drollest of all about those women over
                        there."
                    She indicated with a gesture the domiciles of her sisters. The fact that Phil
                        had utilized her aunts as literary material amused Lois profoundly. But
                        finding that the burden of the talk lay with her she asked, "What
                        would you think of college for Phil? Or is it too late?"
                    "She did n't seem a good subject when the time came; and
                        besides," he added bluntly, "I could n't afford
                        it."
                    "Oh, she did n't speak of it regretfully; she did
                        n't complain because you had n't sent her!"
                    "No, of course not; that would n't be like Phil.
                        I'm not sure college would be a good thing for her now;
                        she's read prodigiouslyaway ahead of most girls, ahead of most
                        people! There would n't be so much that college could do for her.
                        And if she really has the creative faculty, it's better not to curb
                        or check it. Not in her case. She led her class in high school without
                        working at it. Whatever she wants to know she will get without tying herself
                        up in a college course."
                    Lois nodded. He was an educated man who had himself been a teacher, and his
                        testimony was entitled to respect. She was far more comfortable than he as
                        they continued the discussion. The breadth of her understanding of Phil
                        piqued him. In these few weeks Lois had learned much about Phil that had
                        been a sealed book to him. His position was absurd; it was preposterous for
                        him to be learning about Phil from Phil's mother, when it was he
                        who had shaped the course of Phil's life. He wondered whether Lois
                        knew that her disclosures hurt his pride, shattered his vanity.
                    "The dear child seems to be the sole prop of most of the paupers in
                        the bottoms. I went with her to look at one of her families yesterday, and I
                        could see where her spare change has been going. She's set up a
                        piano in the box factory so the girls can amuse themselves at noontime and
                        you may  be sure they're all crazy
                        about her. Everybody seems to be!"
                    The remembrance of Phil's generosities amused her. She mentioned a
                        number of them with murmurous glee and unmistakable admiration. Phil had
                        never confided these things to him, and he reflected ruefully that her
                        indulgence in pianos for working-girls probably accounted for deficiencies
                        in her own wardrobe that had not at times escaped his masculine eye. He had
                        mildly wondered what became of the money he gave Phil for shoes! It argued
                        an unresponsiveness in his own nature that Phil had concealed her adventures
                        as Lady Bountiful from himand he had thought she told him everything!
                    He was learning about Phil from the last person in the world who had any
                        right to know Phil. He had seen in her precociousness, her healthy delight
                        in books, nothing astonishing, and he had known nothing of her scribbling.
                        His irritation grew. He was impatient to escape from this garden that Holton
                        had spoken of as Kirkwood's graveyard; from this cheerful ghost
                        beside him, with her low, musical voice and her murmurous laughter. His
                        thoughts flew to Nan, to whom he now meant to go with his last appeal.
                    It flashed upon him that he might assure his victory over Nan's
                        qualms by carrying to her the definite knowledge that there was absolutely
                        no hope, as he fancied Nan believed there was, that he and Lois might bridge
                        the wide chasm that had separated them for so many years and renew the old
                        tie. If he could go from Lois to Nan with that news, he believed his case
                        would be invincible. He would make the offer to Lois now, on this spot whose
                        associations might be supposed to create an atmosphere of sentiment
                        favorable to its serious consideration. The interview had run into a dead
                        wall. Quite imaginably his proximity had begun to bore Lois. He idled with
                        his stick, pondering. She rose suddenly.
                    "I must go back; Phil won't know what's become of
                        me."
                    "Perhaps it would be as well to tell her that we've
                        met," he said. "In fact, I think she should
                        know."
                    
                    "I prefer not," she answered with decision. "It
                        might trouble her; she might thinkshe thinks of everything!"
                    "Lois, there are waysimportant onesin which it would be best for
                        her, make her happier, if we couldtry again!"
                    She raised her hand with one of her quick gestures, and it rested for an
                        instant on his arm. As she lifted her face he saw the tears bright in her
                        eyes.
                    "Don't say it; don't think of it!" she
                        whispered brokenly.
                    "For Phil's sake we ought to do it if we can," he
                        persisted, surprised to find how unmoved he was.
                    "For Phil's sake we wouldn't if we
                        could!" Their gaze met searchingly. "It would be doing
                        Phil a terrible wrong!"
                    "I don't understand; I can't follow
                        that," he answered.
                    And still unmoved, untouched, he saw grief and fear in her eyes, her face
                        twitching with the pain of inner conflict.
                    "No; you don't understand!" she cried softly.
                        "But if you meant itif we either of us cared any more,
                        don't you see that it would n't do! Don't you
                        know how unjust how horribly unjust it would be to her, toto lead her to
                        think that Love could be like that; something to be taken on and put off? It
                        would be an unholy thing! It would be a sacrilege! No one would be deceived
                        by it; and Phil would know we both lied!"
                    "But we might work it out some way; with her to help it might not go
                        badly. I would do my best! I promise you that," he said, more
                        sincere than he had meant to be.
                    She was greatly moved and he wondered where emotion might lead her. He was
                        alertly watchful for any quick thrust that might find him off guard. She
                        went on hurriedly.
                    "Tom," she said gently, "Phil had thought of it;
                        she spoke of it. But nothing worse could happen to her. It would spoil the
                        dear illusions she has about me; and in the end she would think less of you.
                        For you don't mean it; it's only for Phil's sake
                        you suggest it."
                    "And for your own sake, too; to protect you from from just such
                        occurrences as"
                    
                    His eyes turned away from her to the point in the hedge through which Holton
                        had vanished.
                    She shivered as though a cold wind had touched her and drew the cloak closer
                        about her shoulders.
                    "I don't need any one's protection. That poor
                        beast won't bother me. I must say now all I shall ever have to say
                        to you. We won't lie to each other; we need not! There is no real
                        soul in me. If there had been, this house would not have been standing here
                        empty all these years. And yet you see that I have n't changed
                        much; it has n't really made a great deal of difference in me. I
                        have had my hours of shame, and I have suffereda little. I believe I am
                        incapable of deep feeling: I was born that way. If I appealed to your mercy
                        now, I should be lying. And for a long time I have lived the truth the best
                        I could. I believe I understand the value of truth and honor, too; I believe
                        I realize the value of such things now. I'm only a little dancing
                        shadow on the big screen; but I mean to do no more mischief; not if I can
                        help it, and I think that at last I have mastered myself. You see,"
                        and quite composed she laughed again, "I'm almost a fool,
                        but not quite."
                    He murmured something as she paused, but she did not heed him, nor ask what
                        he had said. He was not so relieved as he had expected to be by her prompt
                        refusal of his offer, whose fine quixotism he felt had been wasted upon her.
                        He was nothing to her; and never could have been; and this rejection was not
                        the less disagreeable because he had expected it. It is difficult to imagine
                        any circumstances in which a man will accept without resentment the idea
                        that he is a negligible figure in a woman's life. The finer his
                        nature the greater his astonishment at finding that she is able to complete
                        her reckoning without including him as a factor in her calculations. And in
                        Kirkwood's case the woman had put him in the wrong when all the
                        right was so incontrovertibly on his side. She had taken high ground for her
                        refusal, and he could not immediately accommodate himself to the air of this
                        new altitude, which he had never expected to 
                        breathe in her company. Her thistledown nature might be the prey of the
                        winds, but even so they might bear her high and far.
                    "I must go on and finish, for there will never be another chance.
                        You deserve the best life can give you. I'm glad to know things
                        have been going well with you; and Amzi says it's only the
                        beginning. With all my heart I'm glad. It makes it easier for
                        medon't you see! And I know about Nan Bartlett; not from Phil, but
                        from Mrs. King. I hope you will marry Nan; and if my coming has made any
                        difference, don't let that trouble you! In a little while I shall
                        be gone; but Phil must n't know that. And I shall never come back
                        hereyou may rely on that; but I hope to have Phil come to me now and then. I
                        want to keep in touch with her,have some part in her life. And you need
                        n't fear that I shan't bequite a proper person for Phil to
                        visit! You will believe that, won't you?"
                    "Yes, Lois," he said wonderingly; for he was touched by the
                        wistfulness of her plea that he should not fear her influence upon Phil.
                        "You would n't have come back to Phil unless you felt you
                        had a right to; I'm sure of that," he said with
                        warmth.
                    "No; I should not have been base enough for that," she
                        replied, with a little forlorn sigh.
                    "And as for your going away, it must not be on my account. It is
                        n't necessary for you to go."
                    He did not speak of Nan; nor did she refer to her again.
                    "I'm glad this has happened this way. I think we understand
                        a little better. Good-night, Tom!"
                    "Good-night, Lois!"
                    Their hands touched. He saw the flutter of her cloak as she passed round the
                        house, seeking the path to Amzi's. The garden was very still when
                        she had gone.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXV
                    PHIL ENCOUNTERS THE SHERIFF
                    THE May number of "Journey's
                        End" containing Phil's veracious account of the dogs of
                        Main Street created almost as much of a sensation as the consolidation of
                        the First National with Montgomery's Bank. The "Evening
                        Star" did not neglect its duty to Indiana literature. A new planet
                        blazed in the Hoosier heavens, and it was the business of
                        Montgomery's senterprising afternoon daily to note its appearance
                        and speculate upon its course and destiny. The "Evening
                        Star's" "local" wrote a two-column
                        "story" about Phil for the Sunday supplement of the
                        Indianapolis "Advertiser." The fact that Miss Kirkwood
                        belonged to one of the oldest and most distinguished families in central
                        Indiana was not overlooked; but this was merely the prelude to a breezy
                        description of her many adventures, her athletic prowess, her broad
                        democracy. The "Evening Star's"
                        "local" was under obligations to Phil for many quiet news
                        tips; and beyond question he fully balanced the account. The pastor of
                        Center Church made "The Dogs of Main Street" the text of a
                        sermon on the humane treatment of dumb animalsa sermon that Phil heard
                        perforce, as she sat, blushing furiously, beside Amzi in the Montgomery
                        pew.
                    Amzi nearly perished with pride. Busy as he was with the remodeling of the
                        old bank, made necessary by the consolidation (he scorned the idea of moving
                        his bank into the Holton property!), he found time to stand on the bank
                        steps and invite comments on "Phil's
                        latest";there had n"t been a time since Phil was six when
                        her "latest" was n't a subject of spirited
                        conversation. Phil's own happiness was mitigated  somewhat by the fact that
                        "Journey's End" had lately refused two other
                        manuscripts. Still the editor wrote explaining why her stories were not
                        available and urged her to try again. "Stick to the local
                        flavor," he said, "and don't read Stevenson so
                        much. Anybody can write stories about the French Revolution; not many are
                        able to catch the character and life of Main Street." While she
                        pondered this, she resolved to be a poet and sold a jingle to
                        "Life."
                    Kirkwood wired his congratulations from Chicago. He had not fully recovered
                        from the shock of Lois's declaration of her belief in
                        Phil's genius. Reading Phil's sketch over a lonely dinner
                        in a Chicago hotel, he was pricked anew by the consciousness that he had
                        never fully appreciated Phil's qualities. What Lois had said made a
                        difference. He would have chuckled over the Philesque touches in
                        "The Dogs of Main Street" in any circumstances, but he
                        remembered enough of the commencement essay to value her changes, and to
                        note the mark of the file on certain sentences. The thing had form and
                        something akin to style. While he had been counseling Nan Bartlett as to
                        "The Gray Knight," writing that was quite as individual as
                        hers had been done without his guidance under his own roof!
                    In spite of his professional successes, Fate still played pranks with him.
                        Nan had set herself determinedly against the idea of marrying him, and his
                        assurance that Lois had rejected the idea of remarriage, even for
                        Phil's sake, had not shaken her resolution. Lois's return
                        had dimmed the glow of his second romance. And Nan and Rose had gone to call
                        on heran act whose finality was not wasted on Kirkwood.
                    The authorship of "The Gray Knight of Picardy" was now
                        generally known, and when the Bartletts called on Phil's mother the
                        talk ran naturally upon books and writers; and as Nan would not talk of
                        herself, Phil's ambitions were thoroughly discussed. Phil, knowing
                        that the Bartletts were coming, had discreetly taken herself off.
                        Lois's account of the visit, given before Amzi at the dinner-table,
                             lacked all those emotional elements which
                        Phil had assumed to be inevitable where a man's former wife
                        describes a call from a woman whom that man has been at the point of
                        marrying. Phil had not lost her feeling that the world is a queer place.
                    "They are splendid women, Amzi," Lois declared.
                        "If you don't marry Rose pretty soon, I shall have to take
                        the matter into my own hands."
                    "Thunder! Rose marry me!" Amzi ejaculated.
                    "Why not!" Lois answered, composedly dropping a lump of
                        sugar into his coffee. "Nan can't marry
                        you; I should never have chosen you for Nan!"
                    The ice cracked ominously and Amzi began talking about the furniture he was
                        buying for the new bank. Of course Lois knew! Phil had no doubts on that
                        point. That astonishing mother of hers had a marvelous gift of penetration.
                        Phil's adoration was increasing as the days passed. It was little
                        wonder that following Mrs. John Newman King's courageous example,
                        people seemed to be in haste to leave cards at Amzi's for Mrs.
                        Holton. The gossip touching Lois's return lost its scandalous tinge
                        and became amiable, as her three sisters were painfully aware. The
                        "stand" they had taken in support of their private dignity
                        and virtue and in the interest of public morals had not won the applause
                        they had counted on. People to whom they went for sympathy politely changed
                        the subject when they attempted to explain themselves. Mrs. John Newman King
                        told the pastor of Center Church, who had sought her advice as to his own
                        duty, that she hoped he would n't make a fool of himself. These
                        were shocking words from a woman who had known Abraham Lincoln, and who was
                        a greater power in Center Church than the ruling elders.
                    The Presbyterians were just then canvassing the town in the interest of a
                        projected hospital, and the "Evening Star" printed the
                        subscriptions from day to day. Amzi's name led all the rest with
                        one thousand dollars; and immediately below his modest "A.
                        Montgomery," "Cash" was credited  with a like sum. It was whispered that Lois
                        Montgomery Holton was the anonymous contributor. Lois's three
                        sisters were appalled by the increasing rumors that their erring sister had
                        come back with money. It was a sinful thing, if true; they vacillated
                        between demanding an inquiry as to the source of the unknown
                        contributor's cash or boldly suing for peace with Lois and Amzi.
                        And to add to their rage, they knew that neither Lois nor Amzi cared a
                        picayune whether peace was restored or not. Lois's sisters were not
                        the first among humankind to conclude that there is a difference between Sin
                        begging bread and Sin with cake to throw away.
                    Lois's automobile dazzled Main Street at this juncture. The William
                        Holton car, splendid as it had been in its day, was a junk-pile compared to
                        it. The accompanying chauffeur received, it was said, a salary of
                        seventy-five dollars a month. Public interest fastened upon this person. A
                        crowd that gathered in front of the old bank to inspect the car on the day
                        that Lois and Phil brought it home from Indianapolis heard Mrs. Holton
                        address him in a strange tongue. By nightfall every one in Montgomery knew
                        that Lois had bought the most expensive car in town; that her chauffeur was
                        French, and that she gave him orders in his own language just as though she
                        had spoken it all her life. Main Street was impressed; all Montgomery felt
                        the thrill of these departures from its usual, normal life.
                    Lawrence Hastings carried home details as to the "make,"
                        horse-power and finish of the machine that caused his wife and two
                        sisters-in-law indescribable anguish. Still the French chauffeur was a
                        consoling feature; a vulnerable target for their arrows. No woman who valued
                        her reputation would go gallivanting over the country with a foreign
                        chauffeur, when it was the duty of Montgomery people to employ worthy
                        college boys to run their machines whenever possible. The sight of Phil at
                        the wheel, receiving instructions in the management of the big car on the
                        day after its arrival, did not greatly add to their joy in life. The
                        exposure  of Phil to the malign influences of
                        a French chauffeur was another of Lois's sins that did not pass
                        unremarked. Still the stars would not always fight against righteousness;
                        Phil would be killed, or she would elope with the Frenchman, and Amzi would
                        be sorry he had brought Lois home and set her up brazenly in the house of
                        her fathers.
                    Amzi, rolling home to luncheon in the new car and rolling off again with his
                        cigar at a provoking angle, was not unobserved from behind the shutters of
                        his sisters' houses. In the bank merger he had acquired various
                        slips of paper that bore the names of his sisters and their husbands,
                        aggregating something like seven thousand dollars, which the drawers and
                        indorsers thereof were severally unable to pay. The payment of the April
                        interest and the general bright outlook in Sycamore affairs had induced a
                        local sentiment friendly to the company that had already lost Waterman one
                        damage suit. Fosdick thought he saw a way of making his abandoned brickyard
                        pay if he could only command a little ready cash. Hastings had not forgotten
                        Phil's suggestion that he transform his theater into a
                        moving-picture house: there were indications that the highbrows were about
                        to make the "reel" respectable in New York, and a few
                        thousand dollars would hitch Montgomery to the new
                        "movement" for dramatic uplift. And here was Amzi soaring
                        high in the financial heavens, with a sister who gave a thousand dollars to
                        a hospital without even taking credit for her munificence!
                    Amzi and Lois enjoyed themselves without let or hindrance from their
                        neighboring sisters. Packages arrived by express; decorators from
                        Indianapolis came and went; furniture was unpacked in the front yard; and a
                        long stone bench and a sundial appeared in Amzi's lawn, together
                        with a pool, in the center of which an impudent little god piped joyfully in
                        a cloud of spray. Such trifles as these testified to the prevailing cheer of
                        Amzi's establishment.
                    The fact that Fred Holton had turned his farm over to Kirkwood was public
                        property now; and people were saying  that it
                        was fine of Amzi to give Fred employment. The way in which the Holtons
                        crossed and recrossed the trail of the Montgomerys had been the subject of
                        much discussion. But the situation was clearing in so far as the Holtons
                        were concerned. William had removed to Chicago to begin life anew; and Jack
                        had vanished utterly, the day following the collapse of the panic. Charles,
                        too, had disappeared. It was believed that Kirkwood had recovered enough
                        from Samuel's associates in the construction company to balance the
                        deficiencies occasioned by fradulent construction and that he was not
                        particularly interested in Charles's whereabouts.
                    "How about taking a look at the farm?" asked Amzi one
                        Saturday afternoon. "Fred's planting corn and
                        we'll see how the country looks."
                    Lois and Phil agreed that this was a capital idea and they set off in high
                        spirits.
                    As they approached the farm, Jack Whittlesey, the sheriff, passed on
                        horseback.
                    "Looks bad for somebody," said Phil.
                    "What does?" asked Amzi.
                    "When Jack goes out on his horse, it's a sign
                        somebody's going to jail."
                    "Only serving subpoenas, I reckon," said Amzi.
                    They espied Fred driving a corn-planter across a long level field, and
                        stopped the car. He ran to the fence to talk to them, and they all alighted.
                        It was a warm afternoon and he mopped his face with a big bandanna as he
                        talked to them. He rested his arms on the top rail of the fence, playing
                        with his capnot the disreputable old coonskin with which Phil had become
                        familiar that winter, but the regular Madison College cap with a scarlet
                        "M" above the visor.
                    "In the words of the poet," began Phil, "where did
                        you get that hat?"
                    "This? Oh, the day of the Main Street rumpus I lost mine and one of
                        the boys lent me his. I meant to get him another, but I have n't
                        been to town since. And besides, I've forgotten his
                        name."
                    
                    "That's George Nesbit's cap," Phil
                        answered, after eyeing it critically. "I know because it's
                        an old style nobody else wore this year. George lives at the Phi Gam house,
                        if you care for his address."
                    "I hope you don't know them all as well as that,
                        Phil," remarked Lois.
                    "She does," chuckled Amzi; "she does,
                        indeed."
                    Amzi and Fred dealt in technicalities. The green of young wheat caught the
                        eye in the distances. These were Amzi's acres; the Holton farm lay
                        beyondthe land that had been Fred's. In February, Phil and Amzi had
                        driven out one afternoon and had found Fred sowing clover seed over the
                        snowcovered wheat in his own field. Her imagination took fire at all these
                        processes. "A calendar might be laid out in great squares upon the
                        earth," she had written in her notebook, "and the months
                        would tell their own stories." It was all a great wonder, that man
                        had learned so perfectly how to draw from the mute soil its sweetness and
                        vigor. Nothing man did seemed more interesting than this tilling and sowing.
                        She noted how even snow had its use in catching and holding seed against the
                        wind, and watched the sower marking his own progress and regulating the
                        distribution by his tracks. Ultimately the clover would give its own life to
                        nourish and strengthen the wheatthese things kindled her fancy. Here was
                        poetry in the making, with suns and frosts, rains and snows taking their
                        part in it. And Fred felt it too; she knew that. In his shy, guarded way he
                        had spoken of it. But to-day he was not a dreamer but a man of action.
                    "Got all the help you want, Fred?" Amzi was asking.
                    "Yes, sir. No troubles. I'm using my old place for a
                        boarding-house for the hands. Suppose you won't stay for
                        supper?" he suggested, a little perfunctorily.
                    "Just because you're so enthusiastic, we will! But
                        we've brought our own fodderPhil packed the hamper; enough for a
                        couple of regiments. We'll meet you at my house at supper-time and
                        have an indoors picnic."
                    They waited to watch him start the team. Phil took the  wheel, and as they rolled away Lois and Amzi exchanged a
                        glance.
                    "You trust him?" she asked, glancing meaningly at
                        Phil's back.
                    "Thunder!" said Amzi; "I don't know about
                            that."
                    "It might be worse," Lois replied, and her brother looked
                        at her in surprise.
                    "He's a straightforward, manly fellow; seems to have
                        escaped the family curse. It must be this"Lois indicated the fields
                        "that makes the difference. There's a moral influence in
                        it; and," she added with a smile, "there's always
                        a market for corn."
                    "He's as square a chap as they make 'em, but as
                        for that" and he nodded towards Phil.
                    "It is n't for us to say, brother, but I believe I should
                        trust him; and they seem to understand each other. He's far from
                        stupid, and the kind of man to watch over her and protect her."
                    These utterances greatly astonished Amzi. He wondered whether Lois's
                        own experiences were responsible for her feeling that Phil needed a
                        protector, and her frankly expressed liking for Fred in that connection. He
                        was surprised but not displeased though the thought of Phil's
                        marrying gave him a distinct shock when considered concretely. He never
                        dissociated it from the remembrance of Lois's tragedies.
                    They found Amzi's house in order. Phil lighted the open fire to take
                        the chill from the living-room, which had been closed since the
                        Perrys' departure. Amzi ran off in the machine to pay a visit to
                        one of the county commissioners who lived near by: Lois with her usual
                        adaptability produced a novel and made herself comfortable on a couch. She
                        was absorbed in her book before Phil left the room. Her mother's
                        ready detachment never ceased to astonish her. Sometimes in the midst of a
                        lively conversation, Lois would abruptly take up a book, or turn away
                        humming to look out of the nearest window. Her ways had been disconcerting
                        at first, but Phil had grown used to them. It argued for the completeness
                             of their understanding that these
                        dismissals were possible. Her mother's love of ease and luxury; the
                        pretty knickknacks she kept about her; her deftness in self-adornment the
                        little touches she gave to a hat that utterly re-created itnever failed to
                        fascinate Phil.
                    Having disposed of her mother, or rather, that lady having forgotten her
                        existence, Phil climbed the blossomy orchard slope and looked off toward
                        Listening Hill. How many things had happened since that fall afternoon when
                        she had talked there with Fred! Life that had seemed simple just then had
                        since shown her its complexities. She watched Fred's slow progress
                        with the corn-planter in the field below.
                    Glancing again at Listening Hill road her wandering gaze fell upon a horse
                        and rider. Her eye, delighting in the picturesque at all times, was alive to
                        the strong, vigorous lines in which man and horse were drawn against the
                        blue May sky. They gained the crest of the road, and the man turned in his
                        saddle and swept the surrounding fields in a prolonged inspection. She
                        looked away and then sought the figures again, but they had disappeared. A
                        little cloud of dust rose in the hollow toward Turkey Run. It was
                        undoubtedly big Jack Whittlesey, the sheriff. The idea of one man hunting
                        another was repugnant to Phil to-day, in this bright, wakened world of green
                        fields, cheery bird song and laughing waters. She ran down the hill to
                        escape from the very thought of sheriffs and prisons, and set off for the
                        creek, following the Montgomery-Holton fence toward the Holton barn, whither
                        the music had lured her that night of the change o' the year when
                        she had danced among the corn shocks. The laborers were all off at work and
                        no one was in sight.
                    It was a very respectable-looking barn now that Fred had patched its
                        weather-beaten sides and painted it. She flung back the door to revisualize
                        her recollection of the dance. The bang of the sliding door roused a hen to
                        noisy protest, and it sought the open with a wild beating of wings. The hen
                        had emerged from the manger of an unused stall, and in feeling under the
                        corn-trough for eggs, Phil touched some  alien
                        object. She gave a tug that brought to light a corner of brown leather,
                        found handles, and drew out a suit-case. She was about to thrust it back
                        when "C. H." in small black letters arrested her eye. It
                        was an odd place for the storing of luggage and her curiosity was keenly
                        aroused. She had seen and heard nothing of Charles Holton since the night he
                        had taken her to the lecture, and barns were not likely camping-places for
                        gentlemen of his fastidious tastes.
                    A step on the planked approach to the barn caused her to thrust the case back
                        under the corn-box. She sprang toward the door, and faced Jack Whittlesey,
                        who grinned and took off his hat.
                    "'Lo, Phil!"
                    "'Lo, Jack!"
                    "Stealing eggs, Phil?"
                    "The hen deceived me; nothing doing."
                    "Passed you on the way out. Hardly know your old friends now
                        you've set up a machine, I reckon."
                    "Cut that out, Jack, and feed it to the larks. You had only ten
                        votes to spare when you were elected and I landed seven of them for you, so
                        don't be gay with me."
                    "I'm not gay; I'm tired. I'm looking for
                        a party."
                    "What's your friend's name?" asked Phil,
                        picking up a straw and chewing it.
                    "That would be telling. You have n't seen a man chasing
                        over the country with a brown suit-case, have you?"
                    "Nope; nor with a black, pink, or green one. Where does the story
                        begin?"
                    "Well, not in my county. They send all the hard jobs out to us
                        farmers. Suppose there's anybody in this barn?"
                    "There was a hen; but she went off mad when I came in.
                        You'd better go back and pose on Listening Hill again; you looked
                        rather well therea lone picket on an Alp watching for Napoleon's
                        advance.
                    
                        He saw afar
                        The coming host, but thought the glint of arms,
                        Betokened milk-cans in some peasant's cart,"
                    
                    
                    Phil added, bending forward and shading her eyes with her hand.
                    Whittlesey, knowing Phil well, laughed his appreciation absently.
                    "He's been dodgin" up and down the creek here for
                        two days, trying to muster nerve enough to hit the trolley and clear out.
                        There's a nice bunch of plunder in his suit-case."
                    "Rich man, poor man, beggar man, thief?" Phil repeated
                        touching the buttons on her shirt-waist.
                    "That would be tellin'"
                    "Well, don't tell, then. But not mentioning any names that
                        particular person would n't be likely to hang around
                        here," suggested Phil meditatively.
                    The sheriff eyed her critically.
                    "You know who I mean? Sure you ain't seen
                        him?"
                    "No, I have n't, Jack," replied Phil
                        truthfully.
                    "If you spot a gent with a suit-case, hop for a telephone and call
                        the jail, and mebbe I'll whack the reward."
                    "It does n't sound like such easy money," Phil
                        replied.
                    "Charlie and Fred ain't so terribly chummy, I
                        guess," remarked the sheriff leadingly. "That's
                        why I thought I'd take a look around here. A fellow as smart as
                        Charlie would pick the unlikeliest place to hide in. I'll have a
                        word with Fred as I go back. I got a deputy at Stop 7, watching the cars. If
                        Charlie's in the neighborhood we'll pinch him all right.
                        So long, Phil."
                    Whittlesey moved across the barn-lot toward his horse. Phil's mind
                        had been working busily. Beyond doubt Charles Holton was lurking in the
                        neighborhood, waiting for a chance to escape. The suit-case pointed to this
                        clearly. It was undeniably her duty to tell the sheriff of her discovery,
                        and it had been on the tip of her tongue to do so half a dozen times during
                        their colloquy at the barn door. Whittlesey was an old friend and one of her
                        admirations, and it was only the part of good comradeship to help him.
                    The remembrance of her last meeting with Charles still flamed angrily in her
                        heart when she thought of him. There  was
                        certainly no reason why she should shield him from the outstretched arm of
                        the law; yet she had first hesitated, then rejected the idea of
                        communicating to the sheriff her knowledge that the plunder with which
                        Charles was seeking to escape was hidden in the barn. Contemptible as
                        Charles was and doubtless deserving of his impending punishment, she would
                        not aid in his apprehension. She did not believe that Fred in like
                        circumstances would do so; and there was Ethel, their sister, on whom the
                        disgrace of Charles's arrest would fall heavily.
                    Whittlesey swung himself into his saddle and rode slowly toward the highway.
                        Phil returned to the barn, considering whether she should tell Fred of her
                        discovery of the suit-case.
                    She stopped short on the threshold, all her senses alert. The rear door of
                        the barn had been opened during her brief absence. She saw across the fields
                        the trees that marked the Turkey Run defile, and she was confident that this
                        long vista had not been visible when she first entered. She took a step
                        toward the stall where she had found the suit-case, looked round cautiously
                        before bending down to draw it out again, and a pair of eyes met hers,
                        unmistakably Charles Holton's eyes, fear-struck, as he peered
                        across a farm wagon behind which he had concealed himself. While she had
                        been talking to Whittlesey in the barn-lot, he had stolen in by the rear
                        door to be nearer his booty.
                    Phil walked to the door and glanced toward Listening Hill. A quarter of a
                        mile away she saw Whittlesey and Fred conversing earnestly at the edge of
                        the cornfield. No one else was in sight. The farm hands were scattered over
                        the fields, and were not likely to visit the barn until they brought home
                        their teams. Phil, standing in the door, spoke in a low tone.
                    "You can get away, by the back door. The sheriff's talking
                        to Fred down the lane; his man's watching Stop 7. Go back to the
                        Run and follow it to the red covered bridge. Keep away from the trolley
                        line; they're watching it. Better make for Gaston's and
                        take the Chicago train thereit comes along a little before
                        five."
                    
                    He was furtively creeping round the wagon while Phil spoke. She heard the
                        creaking of the planks and turned to see him tiptoeing toward the stall. His
                        clothing was soiled and crumpled. His bent, slinking figure as he stole
                        toward his booty affected her disagreeably. She took a step toward him.
                    "You can't do that; you can't have
                        that."
                    "It's all the baggage I've got; just a few
                        clothes," he muttered huskily. "I crawled in here last
                        night to sleep. I've got to see Fred before I go. I've
                        been waiting two days for a chance to get to him."
                    He watched her with fearful intentness as he continued his cautious advance
                        upon the stall.
                    "You can't have that suit-case," said Phil in a
                        sharper tone. "Go out by the rear door, and keep close to the
                        fence. There's nobody in those fields, and I'll watch till
                        you get to the creek."
                    "I want my things; I've got to have them," he
                        blurted hoarsely, his hand on the stall-post.
                    "You can't have it. If you don't go at once
                        I'll call the sheriff back. There's nothing in that
                        suit-case you need. Quick! Whittlesey knows you're around here
                        somewhere, and if it had n't been for me he'd have
                        searched the barn."
                    "He's a fool. I heard his talk through the cracks, and
                        there's nothing in that case but a suit of clothes, and
                        I've got to have it. It's all I've got in the
                        world."
                    "Then you won't miss it much! I'm giving you a
                        chance to get away. If you don't take it and clear out in ten
                        seconds, I'll call Whittlesey. He's still talking to Fred
                        just a little way down the lane."
                    As she turned to reassure herself of the fact, he made a dive for the
                        suit-case, brought it out and rushed toward the rear door. His foot caught
                        on the edge of a rough plank and he fell headlong, the case flying from his
                        hand. Phil pounced upon it, flung it with all her strength into the farthest
                        corner of the barn, pulled him to his feet, and pushed him through the door.
                        She drew it shut, jerked the bar into place, and ran  through the front door into the barn-lot. She continued
                        running until she had gained the mound on which the house stood. She
                        reasoned that the fugitive would hardly venture to re$eUnter the barn, as
                        this would bring him into the open lot with a possibility of encountering
                        new foes. She saw him presently stealing along the edge of the field toward
                        the creek, dodging along the stake-and-rider fence and pausing frequently to
                        rest or make sure that he was not followed. She saw Whittlesey bid Fred
                        good-bye, watched the young farmer return to his corn-planting, and heard
                        his voice as he called cheerily to the horses.
                    Charles gained the edge of the ravine, clambered over the fence, and
                        disappeared. Then Phil sighed deeply and shuddered; the fear in the
                        man's eyes had not been good to see; and yet she had been touched
                        with pity for him. The night he had taunted her about her mother she had
                        taken the measure of his baseness; but she was glad she had helped him to
                        escape. If there was really anything of value in the suitcase, as Whittlesey
                        had said, the law might have it and welcome; and she was already wondering
                        just how to dispose of it. If Charles followed her instructions, he would
                        strike across country and catch the northbound evening train. His fate was
                        out of her hands, and it was wholly unlikely that he would make any further
                        effort to regain his property now that Phil had seen it. She doubted whether
                        he had had any real errand with Fred. It was much more probable that chance
                        alone had directed his steps to this neighborhood, and that all he wanted
                        was to beg his brother's protection and aid. Now that the
                        excitement of the episode had passed, Phil hid the bag in a dark corner of
                        the corn-crib and continued her tramp.
                    Fred, having gone for a shower and change of raiment, was late to the supper
                        that Phil spread in the dining-room of the Montgomery farmhouse. He seemed
                        unusually grave when they met at the table, and Phil surmised that
                        Whittlesey had discussed Charles's plight with him fully. Amzi had
                             spent an enjoyable afternoon cruising in
                        the neighborhood among his farmer friends, and was in the best of humor.
                        Lois, who had taken her ease, reading and napping, declared that she must
                        cultivate a closer acquaintance with farm life. She pronounced it immensely
                        interesting, feigning to ignore the ironical glances exchanged by Phil and
                        Amzi. She exclaimed in a mockery of rapture over a bowl of scentless wild
                        violets which Phil had gathered. They were amazingly fragrant, she said,
                        waving her hand lately splashed with toilet water.
                    "The fraud! She has n't been out of the house,"
                        Phil remarked to Amzi.
                    "Why should I go out and walk over the clods in my best slippers? I
                        don't return to Nature; Nature returns to me. It's much
                        pleasanter that way." She nibbled a sandwich, elbows on table, and
                        asked if Montgomery still indulged itself in picnics, a form of recreation
                        which she associated only with a youthful horror of chigres.
                    "Met Jack Whittlesey again, on my way back," said Amzi.
                        "What's he hanging round here for?"
                    Fred looked up suddenly, the color deepening in his face.
                    "Jack's always looking for somebody," said Phil
                        lamely, seeking to turn the talk. "He must dream that he's
                        looking for people. I should n't like his job."
                    "He's looking for Charlie," said Fred, raising his
                        head squarely and speaking directly across the table to Amzi. "Jack
                        thinks he's hiding about here somewhere."
                    Amzi blew out his cheeks to hide his embarrassment. It was not his way to
                        cause pain, and there was a hurt, unhappy look in Fred's eyes. And
                        Amzi liked Fredliked his simplicity and earnestness, and stubborn pluck, his
                        manly attitude in adversity.
                    "How absurd," murmured Lois, regarding critically one of
                        Phil's deviled eggs, made, by the way, after Rose
                        Bartlett's recipe.
                    "I thought that was all a bluff about dragging Charlie  into the traction business,"
                        remarked Amzi, who had not thought anything of the kind.
                    "He never surrendered the bonds he got from father," said
                        Fred, relieved, now that the matter had been broached, that he could speak
                        of Charlie's plight to friendly hearers. "Jack said he was
                        trying to get away with them, and there's an indictment against him
                        at Indianapolis."
                    "Oh, they won't catch him," said Lois in her
                        spacious fashion. "They never catch anybody."
                    This was a well-intentioned effort to eliminate Charles and his troubles from
                        the conversation; but Fred, not heeding, spoke again directly to Amzi.
                    "I think it was n't altogether Charlie's fault
                        that he got mixed up in this. The temptation to keep the bonds must have
                        been strong. But he ought to have turned them over. I can't defend
                        his not doing it."
                    Amzi was still annoyed by his unfortunate reference to the sheriff. He
                        fumbled in his breast pocket and drew out a brown envelope.
                    "I've got something for you, Fred, that ought to cheer you
                        up. Charlie's troubles have n't anything to do with you.
                        Here's the deed you gave Mr. Kirkwood for your farm. It's
                        never been recorded, and it stands as though it had never been made. I told
                        Tom he had got back enough money to straighten up the Sycamore business out
                        of those construction fellows without taking your farm, and here you are.
                        I've been holding it a little while just to see how you would take
                        your troubles. Burn it; and now let's forget about
                        Charlie."
                    Fred stared, frowning, at the deed which Amzi tossed across the table.
                    "This is n't right; it is n't square," he
                        began.
                    "Be careful how you sign papers. You may not get 'em back
                        the next time. They tried to swindle you out of your share in your
                        father's estatea clean case on Charlie's part, as
                        everybody knows. You need n't worry about Charlie. He got a lot of
                        stuff that never figured in his 
                        administrator's inventory. The Sycamore Company's
                        perfectly satisfied with what's been wrung out of the other
                        fellows, and if Charlie really has some of those bonds, they belong to
                        you."
                    Lois shrugged her shoulders. The subject was distasteful. Discussions of
                        disagreeable business affairs were not to her liking; and she was sincerely
                        sorry for Fred's discomfiture.
                    "The sheriff's mistaken," remarked Phil.
                        "Charlie has n't any of those bonds, and Jack
                        won't catch him; not to-day."
                    At an early age Phil had learned the dramatic value of downright statements.
                        She helped herself to an olive and waited for Amzi to explode. He exploded
                        immediately.
                    "Charlie has n't them! Jack won't catch
                        him?"
                    "Of course not. I have the bonds and Charlie's a long way
                        from here by this time."
                    She recounted her meeting with Charles in the Holton barn, and when they
                        expressed incredulity, she sprang up and darted from the room. When she
                        reappeared with the suit-case and dumped its contents on the table, Amzi,
                        narrowly averting apoplexy, counted the bonds carefully, and made a
                        calculation of the accrued and unpaid interest.
                    "Thunder!" he blurted. "Now, look here, Fred,
                        don't you do anything foolish! We'll stack these up in the
                        bank until Kirkwood can pass on this business. He might have them annulled,
                        I suppose; but we'll wait and see."
                    "You would n't have Fred steal them, Amy!"
                    "Steal them! Thunder! We'll run 'em through the
                        estate and out to Fred again. I guess Charlie took care of his sister in the
                        original whack; but if he did n't we'll give her a
                        slice." He glared at Phil fiercely. "You,
                        Phil!"
                    "What's the matter, Amy?"
                    "You lied to the sheriff of this county!"
                    "If you talk to me like that I'll most certainly muss you;
                        I will, I will!"
                    "You concealed stolen property! You helped a fugitive  to escape from justice! Youyou!"
                        Words failing him, he bent over the table, shaking an accusing finger under
                        her nose.
                    "Forget it, Amy! If I did I glory in my shame. Put that in your
                        pipe. Incidentally, it occurs to me that it's about time to think
                        of going home."
                    "I don't know what to say to all this," said Fred
                        as they rose from the table. He looked from one to the other, the deep
                        feeling showing in his face. "It was fine of you, Phil, to help
                        Charlie get away; I appreciate that. I want to say again that I think
                        Charlie means all right. He's the besthearted fellow in the
                        world."
                    "Well," said Lois kindly, "we hope he will find
                        another chance and make good." Then after a moment she added:
                        "We most of us need two chances in this world, and some of us
                        three!"
                    "And about the farm, I did n't expect that: I'm
                        not sure it's right to take it back," said Fred.
                        "I want to do the square thing."
                    "Thunder!" ejaculated Amzi; and then, seeing that Phil was
                        already engaged in repacking the hamper with the empty dishes he turned upon
                        her with his mock fury and demanded that she give him another pickled peach
                        before the jar was disposed of.
                    "Get that article at my house, Phil?"
                    Phil walked close to him and shouted in his ear as to a deaf man:
                    "No, you grand old imbecile! Anybody but you would know that they
                        represent the perfection of Rose Bartlett's art! Now, will you be
                        good!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVI
                    A CALL IN BUCKEYE LANE
                    "GOING out, mamma?"
                    "Rather think so, Phil!" replied Lois.
                    It was the week after the visit to the farm, and Phil, who was now scratching
                        away furiously on a short story, had opened her mother's door late
                        in the afternoon to find that lady contemplating with unusual gravity a
                        frock she had flung across the bed for inspection.
                    "What are you up to, Phil?"
                    "Up to my chin in ink," replied Phil, holding up a
                        forefinger empurpled from the ink she was affecting. She had read in a
                        literary note that one of the most distinguished of contemporaneous women
                        novelists always used purple ink. Phil was spreading a good deal of it over
                        legal cap purloined from her father's office. Kirkwood was just now
                        in town, and he had called her on the telephone to invite her to supper with
                        him at the Morton House, an arrangement which she disclosed to her
                        mother.
                    "Your father's home again?" Lois asked
                        indifferently.
                    "Yes. He has something to do here about those bonds of Charlie
                        Holton's. It sounded rather complicated; and he wants to see Fred,
                        and Amy was to call him into town."
                    Lois's mind was upon the gown. She compressed her lips as she
                        continued to scrutinize it. It was a gown from Paris and a very handsome
                        one. Having decided that it suited her purposes, she brought out a hat that
                        matched it and tossed it onto the bed.
                    "How do you think I'd look in those things?"
                    "Adorable! Shall I order up the machine?"
                    "Um, no: I'll walk, I think."
                    "I rather take it that I'm not invited," laughed
                        Phil.
                    
                    "Bless me, no! I have a call to make that would n't
                        interest you."
                    Phil walked to the bureaua new one of mahogany that had been among her
                        mother's recent substitutions for the old walnut with which the
                        house had been filled. The folder of a steamship company lay sprawled open
                        across the neatly arranged toilet articles. Phil picked it up idly, and
                        noted certain pencilings that caused her heart to give a sudden bound. She
                        flung round upon her mother with tears in her eyes.
                    "You are notnot thinking of that!"
                    Lois walked over to her and kissed her. She took Phil's face in her
                        hands, looking into her eyes steadily.
                    "You dear chick, you would care!"
                    "Oh, you must n't! You must not!" Phil cried. "And you have been thinking of it
                        and not telling me! And just when I thought we understood
                        everything."
                    "I meant to tell you to-day: I really did. It was n't easy.
                        But I've got to go, Phil. I'm not sure that I have
                        n't stayed too long! You know I never meant to stay
                        forever."
                    "Then you have n't been happy here! You don'tyou
                        don't like me!"
                    Lois sank into a chair by the window and drew the girl down beside her. Phil
                        gripped her mother's hands tight, and stared into her face with
                        tear-filled eyes.
                    "It's as hard for me as it is for you, Phil. But we may as
                        well have it out. I've taken passage for the first Saturday in
                        June, and it's not far off. Some friends are spending the summer in
                        Switzerland and I'm going to join them. It was half-understood when
                        I came here."
                    "It's hard; it's unkind," Phil whispered.
                        The fact that her mother had planned flight so long ahead did not mitigate
                        the hurt of it. Nothing, it seemed, could ever be right in this world! And
                        she had just effected all the difficult readjustments made necessary by her
                        mother's return! She had given herself so unreservedly to this most
                        wonderful of women! Lois was touched by her show of feeling.
                    
                    "I'm sorry," she said, stroking Phil's
                        brown head. "I have had thoughts of taking you with me. That would
                        be easy enough" she paused uncertainly, as the clasp of
                        Phil's hands tightened. "But, Phil, I have no right to do
                        that. It would n't be for your happiness in the end; I know that;
                        I'm sure of that."
                    "Oh, if you only would! I'll be very gooda lot nicer than
                        you think I am if you will take me."
                    "No!" said Lois sharply, but with a slight quaver in her
                        voice that caused hope to stir in Phil's breast.
                    "You had n't any right to come back and make me love you
                        and then run away again! It is n't kind; it is n't
                        just!"
                    "You would n't love me much longer if I stayed! You would
                        n't love me very long if I carried you off. You've seen
                        the best of me: I've shown you my best box of tricks. I
                        don't wear well, Phil; that's the trouble with
                        me."
                    She rose abruptly and drew Phil to her feet, with an effort at gayety.
                    "As it is we really love each other a lot, and it would be hazardous
                        for me to stay longer. When I saw the first blossoms in the cherry tree, I
                        knew it was time to go. I used to feel that way when I was a childas though
                        I just could n't bear to stay any longer. I remember the days and
                        hours when I used to fight it, away back there when I was a school girl.
                        There must be gypsy blood in me. I can go on being just as you have seen
                        melazy and comfortable for a long time, and then the thing becomes
                        intolerable. It's the cause of all my troubles, one of the wobbles
                        in my wobbly character. But now that I know what's the matterthat
                        it is n't just malariaand that the curse or whatever it is will
                        pass in time, I suppose it is n't a weakness any longer, because I
                        know just what to do for it. How's that, Phil, for
                        philosophy!"
                    "Oh, you're so dear, so wonderfully dear!" cried
                        Phil, touching her mother's cheeks lightly with her hands:
                        "and we have had such good times; and I thought we should go on
                        forever, just chumming; and you have stirred me all up  about doing things, workinghow am I ever to go on trying
                        without you?"
                    "Nothing could keep you from going on and doing things; you will do
                        great things. It's in you. I think maybe it's the wildness
                        in me that has taken this turn in you. You have more brains in a little
                        minute than I ever had: you are amazingly clever and wise. I'm glad
                        it was left for me to discover it; that's one credit I've
                        got on the Good Book."
                    There was a new sweetness and a wistfulness in her gravity that did not
                        escape Phil. Phil knew that she could not change her mother's
                        decision. Lois was already preening her wings for flight. Like a migratory
                        bird she was moved by an irresistible call to other lands and other summers.
                        Phil felt the strong columns of her young life totter; but they did not
                        fall, and she knew they would not. It was a sad business, viewed in any
                        light, but life, Phil had realized since Christmas brought her mother back
                        to her, was not a holiday affair.
                    "I'm only a foolish butterfly down there in the
                        garden," Lois was saying. "I can't stop long
                        anywhere. If I did I'd make mischief. Trouble!" She threw
                        up her hand and snapped her fingers. "What a lot of trouble
                        I've caused in this world! I'm causing some right now; I
                        know it: and it has worried me a lot. And before I flit I've got to
                        straighten things out a little. Don't worry: I'm not going
                        to do anything foolish."
                    She presented her back for Phil to unhook her gown; and proceeded to array
                        herself in the Paris frock, which she had never worn before.
                    "By the way, Phil, I subscribed to a clipping bureau so you could
                        see how far your dog piece traveled, and it's being quoted all over
                        creation. Some paper calls it inimitably droll, which I think rather nice.
                        You'll find a bunch of clippings in my second drawer there. Be sure
                        and show them to your father, and don't fail to keep him in touch
                        with your work: he can help you once he's aroused to what you can
                        do. By the way, you must boil the slang out of your  system. It's charming, but it won't do.
                        First thing you know it will be slipping in to your ink-pot and corrupting
                        your manuscripts. You know better; I don't! As you go on Nan
                        Bartlett can probably save you a good many bumps: she's a clever
                        woman. I read her book twice, and I can point out everything your father put
                        into that tale. There's not much of him there; only one of his dry
                        jokes now and then. Don't imitate anybody; write about things you
                        see and feel. One reason I'm not going to take you away with me is
                        the danger of spoiling your American point of view. Two years from now you
                        can go over and have a look; we'll see to that; but meanwhile make
                        yourself into a blotter that soaks up everything. I once met a literary
                        critic who said that the only American literature that's worth
                        anything or is ever going to be worth anything will be dug right out of the
                        soil. I did n't know then that I had a little digger in my own
                        family! No; the other gloves; and get me the pink parasolthe one with the
                        white handle."
                    She was deftly thrusting the pins through her hat before the oval mirror
                        which had been one of her acquisitions. As she drew on the gloves she turned
                        her supple body to make sure of the satisfactory hang of her skirt. Her good
                        spirits had returned, and she hummed softly as Phil surveyed her. She seemed
                        less indifferent to-day to Phil's admiration. Phil's
                        spirits rose slowly; it was difficult to mourn in this radiant presence.
                    Lois had exercised all her arts in preparing for this mysterious call. She
                        looked astonishingly well!and amazingly young! Dressing had always been to
                        Phil one of the nuisances and troubles of life. Her aunts had so annoyed her
                        by their fussiness, and their efforts at self-embellishment had so disgusted
                        her that it had been a revelation to find her mother making herself into
                        charming pictures with so few strokes and so blithe an indifference to
                        results.
                    Phil watched Lois to the gate, delighting in her easy, graceful step;
                        following the pink dot of the parasol as it was lost and found again through
                        the greenery. Lois sauntered  toward the
                        college and Phil turned into the house, speculating as to her destination.
                        Her mother's general spontaneousness and inadvertence had led Phil
                        to the belief that Lois withheld nothing; it was inconsonant with her
                        understanding of Lois that there should be any recesses where the sun did
                        not strike upon glittering mirrors in the long corridors down which, in
                        Phil's adoration, her mother was forever loitering.
                    Students encountered near the campus turned their heads for a second glance
                        at Lois, thinking her a new girl in town who had escaped their vigilance.
                        She walked through Buckeye Lane to the Bartletts'; lowered her
                        parasol as she passed under the maples in the yard; bent over the lilacs
                        that overflowed upon the path, and smiled at the drumstick as she took it in
                        hand to announce herself.
                    Nan opened the door. If she was surprised to find Mrs. Holton on her
                        threshold, her manner did not betray the fact. Mrs. Holton owed her a calla
                        call which by the social canons was slightly overdue.
                    "I am very glad to see you," said Nan cordially.
                    It was cool and pleasant in the little cottage. (Houses in Montgomery are
                        always pleasant and cool on the warmest days!) Lois sank into a seat, her
                        eyes taking in the room at a glance. The flute on the music cabinet and the
                        'cello beside the piano did not escape her. On the table, where
                        presumably Nan performed her literary labors, lay the week's
                        darning. There was no denying the essential domesticity of the atmosphere.
                        Lois vaguely remembered that room from the days when Professor Bartlett was
                        living, and she had been a frequent visitor, delighting in the cookies and
                        raspberry shrub that were the inevitable items of Bartlett hospitality when
                        youngsters were about.
                    "I'm sorry Rose is n't here; she's
                        spending the day in Indianapolis," Nan observed.
                    "I knew that. That's why I came to-day," replied
                        Lois, smiling. "I wished to see you alone."
                    They exchanged the quick glance called for by this statement. Nan nodded.
                    
                    "I shall be leaving very soon," Lois remarked, holding her
                        parasol at arm's length and whirling it idly.
                    "I'm sorry to hear that," Nan replied.
                    She shook the bracelet down upon her round white arm with her accustomed
                        gesture, rested her elbow on the writingtable, and waited. She had just come
                        in from a walk and was clad in a blue wash waist and dark skirt. She was
                        immediately conscious of the perfections of Lois's raiment, noting
                        its points from silk hose and modish pumps to the utmost tip of the feather
                        on the beguiling Paris hat.
                    Nan's imagination was at work upon the situation: Tom
                        Kirkwood's former wife had come to call upon her, and wished to see
                        her alone; and Tom Kirkwood was in love with her, and she would have married
                        him had not this lovely apparition returned to shake her resolution. In the
                        way of people who write she began to view the encounter with unconscious
                        detachment. She was not to remain long in doubt as to the purpose of
                        Lois's visit.
                    "I am going abroad for an indefinite stay. I may return, of course,
                        now and then, but just to pass the time of day. Montgomery will never be my
                        home. Amzi and Phil"
                    A smile, a slight movement of her head, a lifting of the hand completed the
                        sentence.
                    "They are strong ties," Nan replied, smiling in return.
                    "I want to tell you how deeply grateful I am to you and your sister,
                        for your kindnesses to dear Phil. In these years that I have been gone you
                        and Rose have been"she hesitated "like mothers and
                        grown-up sisters to her. The result speaks for itself. Without you those
                        sisters of mine would have made a fool of her."
                    "Oh, Phil could n't have been spoiled!" exclaimed
                        Nan.
                    "Anybody might be spoiled," Lois insisted.
                        "I'm rather a sad example of the spoiled child myself. I
                        speak, you see, from a weight of experience!"
                    The smile continued in lips and eyes. She was tremendously at ease and her
                        ease was disconcerting.
                    "Phil has kept us delighted and bewildered. She was born  with understanding; there's genius
                        in the child!" said Nan, with warmth.
                    "Ah! I knew you realized that! Tom"she spoke her discarded
                        husband's name unwaveringly, smiling still "Tom has not
                        quite taken her at full value, though he has beensplendid. Amzi has been a
                        dear angel to her,but even he has never fully taken in the real Phil. But
                        here, in this house"she looked about, as though the more fully to
                        place the room in evidence"you have taken her into your hearts! And
                        she needed the oversight of womenof women like you and Rose. You have been
                        her great stimulus, the wisest of counselors. It seems almost as though I
                        had left her on your doorstep! I am not so dull but that I see it
                        all."
                    Nan colored deeply. Lois's suggestion, so bluntly put, that she had
                        cast her child upon the Bartletts' doorstep aroused uncomfortable
                        memories. After an instant's reflection Nan said:
                    "Phil and her father have been unusually close; I don't
                        believe Mr. Kirkwood has failed at any point in duty or sympathy. He is
                        immensely proud of her development."
                    "Yes. Buthe is not a woman! And there's a difference, if I
                        have n't forfeited my right to an opinion on that
                        point!"
                    She skirted the fringes, the dim borders of the past with the lightest step.
                        She fumbled the keys of the closed doors as though they were silver trinkets
                        on a ch$aUtelaine. In Nan's consciousness they seemed to tinkle and
                        jingle softly in the quiet room.
                    "I thought of taking Phil away with me, to see the world,"
                        Nan felt a sudden tightening of the throat"but I have decided
                        against it. That will come later. In the work she wants to do it is better
                        for her to stay here. If she learns Montgomery she will know the world! Does
                        that sound a little studied? I am not a maker of phrasesfar from it! But she
                        has splendid talents?" she ended questioningly.
                    
                    "Phil has the best mind of any girl I ever knew: she takes my breath
                        away!" cried Nan.
                    "So! I knew you would n't fail me there!"
                    "We all realize it: we expect great things of her," added
                        Nan.
                    Lois bent toward her with her winning manner. She drew the parasol across her
                        lap and clasped it in both hands.
                    "That is why I am appealing to you; that is what brought me here to
                        see youalone. I am leaving Phil here with you becausebecause it is so much
                        better for her to be with you than with me! You have done my work for me oh,
                        we won't discuss that! I know it all. You must credit me with some
                        little understanding before we go further!"
                    Just where that "further" was to lead, Nan could not guess.
                        She murmured something to the effect that Mrs. Holton was far too kind.
                    "There is every reason why I should be kind," Lois
                        retorted. "And this brings me to a rather more serious matter, and
                        oneone I am not broaching without reason. I want to speak of Tom!"
                        she flashed. The smile had left her face; her lovely eyes were very
                        grave.
                    "There is nothing that we need say about Mr. Kirkwood,"
                        said Nan, reddening and stirring uneasily.
                    "Please do not say that! This is an important moment in your life
                        and mine. And I must speak to you of Tom before I go away. We are not
                        childrenyou and I. You are a woman and a very noble one andyou must let me
                        say it I have been one of the worst. There's no finer man in the
                        world than Tom; I never knew that until I had flung him away. And
                        it's only because of you and Phil that he found himself again. I
                        know it all as clearly as though I had been here every day of all these
                        years. You picked up the broken pieces and made a man of him againyou and
                        Phil. And you very much more than Phil! I've come to tell you that
                        I'm grateful for that. He deserves well of the world. He loves you;
                        he wants to marry you. If I had n't come back just when I did, you
                        would have married him."
                    
                    She knelt beside Nan with lifted face. There were tears in her eyes.
                    "Don't you seedon't you understandthat that is the
                        only way I can be happy? I'm not saying this for your sakeand only
                        half for Tom's. It's the old selfish me that is asking
                        it," she ended, smiling once more, though with brimming eyes.
                    Nan turned her head.
                    "I can never do it! It's not fair for you to speak to me of
                        him."
                    "Oh, don't I know that! But I never in my life played fair!
                        I want you to promise me that you won't say no to him! He is
                        started on the way up and on once more: I want you to help him gain the top.
                        He needs you just as Phil does! You have already been to him what I never
                        could have been. It is all so easy and so plain! And in no other way can I
                        be right with myself. I shall never trouble you by coming back! Phil can
                        come to me sometimesI'm sure you will not mind that! And I shall
                        find peace that way! For Phil's sake you and Tom must
                        marry!"
                    "Phil loves you so," said Nan; "you have no right
                        to leave her; you don't know what you mean to her!"
                    "I'm only a pretty picture in a book! She's too
                        keen; she'd see through me very soon. No! It must be my
                        way," she said, with a little triumphant note. She rose and turned
                        to pick up her parasol.
                    Nan watched her wonderingly, for an instant dumb before the plea of this
                        woman, so unlooked-for, so amazing in every aspect. Lois touched her
                        handkerchief to her eyes and thrust it into her sleeve.
                    "Now that's all over!" she said, smiling.
                    "No; it can't be over that way," returned Nan,
                        quite herself again. "For a day I thought I could do it, but
                        I'm grateful that you came back, for your coming made me see what a
                        mistake it would have been. There's no question of his needing me.
                        If I helped him a little to find himself, I shall always be glad, but he has
                        tasted success now, and he will  not drop
                        back. And as for Phil, it is absurd to pretend that she needs any one. The
                        days of her needs are passed, and she is at the threshold of happy
                        womanhood. I am glad you came when you did, for I see now how near I was to
                        losing some of my old ideals that would have made the rest of my life one
                        long regret."
                    "Those scruples are like youlike what I know to be true of you; but
                        you are wrong. I believe that in a little while you will see that you
                        are."
                    "No," continued Nan; "I know they are not wrong. I
                        am ashamed of myself that I ever wavered, but now I know I shall never be
                        tempted again. I may seem to be taking myself too seriously"she
                        smiled in her accession of assurance "but I have a feeling of
                        greater relief than I dare try to explain. I am provincial and
                        old-fashioned, and there are things I can't bring myself to think
                        of lightly. I suppose the prejudices of my youth cling to me, and I
                        can't dissociate myself from the idea that, inconspicuous as I am
                        in the general scheme of things, I have my responsibility to my neighbors,
                        to society, to the world. I am grateful that I saw the danger in time to
                        save myself. Your coming back was well timed; it makes me
                        believe"she added softly "that there is more than a fate
                        in these things. I had misgivings from the first; I knew that it was wrong;
                        but not till now have I seen how wrong it was! And I want you to be sure
                        that this is finalthat I shall never waver again."
                    "But in a little while, when I am safely out of the
                        way"
                    "Your going or coming can make no difference. I can say in all
                        sincerity that I wish you would stay. I think it would mean much to Phil if
                        you should. I hope you will change your decision. You must understand that
                        so far as Mr. Kirkwood and I are concerned there is no reason whatever for
                        your going."
                    Lois drew a line in the rug with the point of her parasol, her head bent in
                        an attitude of reflection.
                    "As for Tom and me," she said, meeting Nan's eyes
                        after an instant, "it's only right for you to know from me
                        that he  has given me another chance. He has
                        offered to try me again! It was for Phil's sake. It was generousit
                        was noble of him! But"she shrugged her
                        shoulders"I've caused enough misery. Not in a thousand
                        years would I do it!"
                    Nan nodded, but made no reply. It was enough that she had established her own
                        position, and nothing that Lois could add really mattered. And Lois, with
                        her nice sense of values, her feeling for a situation, knew that the
                        interview was at an end.
                    A copy of the May number of "Journey's End" lay on
                        a little stand with other magazines. Her hand rested upon it a moment, as
                        though she thus referred everything back to Phil, but even this evoked
                        nothing further from Nan.
                    Lois walked to the door, murmuring nothings about the weather, the charm of
                        the flowering yards in the Lane.
                    At the door she caught Nan's hands, smiled into her eyes, and said,
                        with all her charm of tone and manner:
                    "You will kiss me, won't
                        you!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVII
                    AMZI'S PERFIDY
                    IN accommodating himself to the splendors of the enlarged
                        bank room, Amzi had not abandoned his old straw hat and seersucker coat,
                        albeit the hat had been decorated with a dab of paint by some impious
                        workman, and the coat would not have been seriously injured by a visit to
                        the laundry.
                    Amzi was observing the new fa$cLade that had been tacked onto the building,
                        when Phil drove up in the machine. This was the afternoon of the 3d of July.
                        Phil and her father were camping for a week in their old haunt in Turkey
                        Run, and she had motored into town to carry Amzi to his farm, where he meant
                        to spend the Glorious Fourth in the contemplation of the wheat Fred had been
                        harvesting.
                    Phil had experienced a blow-out on her way to town, a fact to which the state
                        of her camping clothes testified.
                    "Thunder!" said Amzi; "you look as though you had
                        crawled halfway in."
                    "A naughty nail in a bridge plank was the sinner," she
                        explained.
                    She jumped out and was admiring the alterations, which had eliminated the
                        familiar steps to the old room, when Mrs. Waterman emerged from a
                        neighboring shop.
                    "You dear Phil!" she cried effusively.
                        "I've been wanting to see you for weeks!"
                    Her aunt caught and held the brown hand Phil had drawn from her battered
                        gauntlet.
                    "Father and I are out at the Run," Phil explained.
                    These were the first words she had exchanged with either of her aunts since
                        Christmas. She was not particularly interested in what her Aunt Josephine
                        might have to say,  though somewhat curious as
                        to why that lady should be saying anything at all.
                    "I can't talk here," Mrs. Waterman continued,
                        seeing that Amzi lingered in the bank door. "But there are things I
                        want to discuss with you, Phil, dear."
                    Main Street is hot on July afternoons; and Phil was impatient to get back to
                        the cool hollows of the Run.
                    "Oh, any time, Aunt Josie," she replied hastily.
                    "It's only fairto myself, and to Fanny and to Kate, for me
                        to say to you that we never meantwe never had the slightest intentionin
                        regard to your dear mother"
                    "Oh, don't trouble about that!" said Phil.
                        "Mamma never minded! And please excuse me; Amy's
                        waiting."
                    She nodded good-bye, and walked through the bank to the new
                        directors' room where Amzi was subjecting himself to the breezes of
                        an electric fan.
                    "Indian!"
                    "I have n't mussed you," observed Phil, placing
                        her gloves on the new mahogany table, "since you started up the new
                        bank. It's about time we were celebrating."
                    He threw up his arms to ward off the threatened attack, and when he opened
                        his eyes and peered out she was sitting on the table with the demurest of
                        expressions upon her countenance.
                    "False alarm; only I object to your comments on my complexion.
                        I'm some burnt; but as it is n't painful to me, the rest
                        of creation need n't worry."
                    "Well, you need n't kick the legs of that table with your
                        sneakers; that table cost money!"
                    "Really! Woeful extravagance. Did you see Aunt Josephine holding my
                        hand?"
                    "I did," replied Amzi. "What's eating
                        Josie?"
                    "She seemed to want to kiss and make up. I excused myself owing to
                        the heat of the day."
                    "Humph! I'll tell you something, Phil, if you'll
                        sit in a chair and be nice."
                    
                    She sat in a chair and was nice.
                    "I was brought up," said Amzi, "to believe in
                        heaven. Ever hear of the place?"
                    "I have," said Phil; "and no thanks to
                        you."
                    He ignored the fling as unworthy of his attention, and continued soberly,
                    "I never expected, in all the years I've been attending
                        Center Church, that I'd ever see anybody on earth that had a pass
                        right through the pearly gates; but I guess I know one woman that's
                        got a ticket, with stop-over privileges, and a seat in the observation
                        carall stamped and good for any date. That woman, Phil, is your mother. That
                        idea's been in my mind a good deal lately and I thought
                        I'd mention it."
                    Phil's face assumed an unwonted gravity. Her mother's
                        departure, in all the circumstances of her going, had still its poignancy.
                        Phil had been brave, but it had cut deep. She did not reply to her
                        uncle's remark, but waited for him to go on. He drew out a cigar,
                        satisfied himself that it was in good condition, and returned it to his
                        pocket.
                    "The day she left, your mother wrote out three checks for five
                        thousand bucksone for each of your aunts. She told me not to turn them over
                        until she had landed on the other side. Thunder! After everything they had
                        done to her and tried to do to her, she did that!"
                    He waited characteristically for her to deny the facts he had stated. A look
                        of great tenderness came into Phil's face.
                    "Said she did n't want any unkind feelings. Said it was all
                        right the way they acted. Right!" he repeated
                        contemptuously. "I've known menand womensome; but I
                        can't beat that! And the day the cable came saying she'd
                        got to Cherbourg, I called 'em down in a bunch and gave
                        'em the checks. You've noticed that your Uncle Lawrence
                        has turned his theater into a moving-picture shop with a yellow-haired girl
                        selling tickets at the gate; and your Uncle Paul has given notice that
                        he's going to start the brickyard 
                        again. He's got contracts to keep him going for six months. And
                        your Uncle Waterman's started in to pay a few of his debts on the
                        installment plan. That's all your mother's
                        money."
                    A wan smile flitted across Phil's face.
                    "What you laughing at?" Amzi demanded.
                    "Nothing," said Phil; "only I seem to remember
                        that I once said something to Lawrince about cutting out the drammer and
                        putting on the reel. And Paul and I had some talk once about
                        bricks"she ended meditatively.
                    "Your ideas, both of 'em, I bet!" declared Amzi
                        furiously.
                    "I thought those fellows never had that much sense all by
                        themselves."
                    "Oh, nothing like that!" replied Phil.
                    "I just thought I ought to tell you what your mother did. Lois did
                        n't say for me not to tell you. I guess she thought I most likely
                        would."
                    "I'm glad you did, Amy. Everything I know about mamma makes
                        me love her that much more."
                    Amzi turned to push the regulator on the fan, and when it had ceased humming
                        he rested his arms on the table and said:
                    "Seems Nan's not going to marry your father, after
                        all?"
                    "No, that's all over," she answered
                        indifferently.
                    "It was fine of your mother to want them to marry."
                    "Yes, it was like her. She is wonderful about everything, thinks of
                        everything and wants everybody to be happy."
                    Phil clasped her crossed knees in her hands, and did not meet her
                        uncle's eyes. The ache in her heart that was not to be stilled
                        wholly through many years cried aloud.
                    "Nan is a splendid woman and a mighty good friend to all of us. And
                        your father's got a new shove up the ladder, and is doing
                        splendidly. Nan did a lot for him!"
                    Phil loosened her hands and they fell helplessly to her sides.
                    
                    "Oh," she cried, "I don't understand all
                        these things, Amy! If mamma had n't come back, Nan and daddy would
                        have married; but I don't see how they could! It's clear
                        beyond me how people see things one way one day and another way the next.
                        What's the matter with all of us anyhow, that right is n't
                        always right? In old times people mostly got married and stayed married, and
                        knew their minds, but nowadays marriage seems so purely incidental.
                        It's got to be almost ree-diculous, Amy."
                    "Well, Phil, I guess we all do the best we can. I guess we
                        can't see very far ahead in this world." And then he
                        smiled grimly. "I guess we never know when we're going to
                        get a puncture. There's got to be patches on the tire before we get
                        home."
                    She gave a little shrug that she had learned from her mother and walked over
                        to him. She clasped his chin in her fingers and tilted his head so that she
                        looked straight through his spectacles into his eyes.
                    "Let's stay on the bank; the swimming's
                        dangerous!"
                    "What are you talking about?" he blurted, fearing that a
                        mussing was imminent.
                    "Getting married! But you"
                    She turned his head the better to search his face for telltale signs.
                    "You beautifulest of old sinners, how about Rose?"
                    He jerked himself free and pushed away from her with a screeching of the new
                        chair's casters.
                    "Thunder!" he gasped. "Don't you ever
                        think that!"
                    "Sure you're not fooling!" she demanded, amused at
                        the look of horror in his face.
                    He drew out his handkerchief and mopped his face. His manner was that of a
                        man who, having heard bad news, has just been assured of its falsity.
                    "I guess," he said, "if I was fool enoughat my age
                        Rose would n't be. I've got along so far, and I guess I
                        can pull through."
                    "Then," said Phil cheerfully, "we'll pull
                        through  together! This marriage business does
                        n't look good to me!"
                    "Thunder!" He looked at her narrowly. "I wish to
                        the Lord I could keep you."
                    "Watch me! You know we're going abroad next summer to see
                        mamma; that's a date. I guess you'll keep me all right
                        enough until you get tired of me, or I break the bank! But why chat we here?
                        Let's set the gasoline alight and ho for the well-hoed fields of
                        corn!"
                    Phil carried a bundle of mail to her father to which he addressed himself
                        after the supper they cooked for themselves in the camp in their old
                        fashion. Amzi scorned their invitation to join them, as he frankly confessed
                        his inability to find joy in sitting on a boulder and drinking coffee out of
                        a tin cup. He preferred the comforts of his own farmhouse and
                        Fred's society.
                    Phil had promised to visit him later, and finding that her father became
                        engrossed immediately in an engineer's report on the Illinois
                        traction property, she stole away.
                    She took the familiar ascent slowly, pausing now and then to listen to the
                        murmur and rush of the waters beneath. From the top of the cliff she called
                        down to assure her father of her safety. The dry stubble of the newly cut
                        wheat was rough underfoot as she set off for Amzi's. There was much
                        sowing and reaping in the world, she philosophized, and far too much chaff
                        in the garnered grain! Life, that might be so simple if every one would only
                        be a little bit reasonable, unfolded itself before her in dim, bewildering
                        vistas.
                    Fred had started to meet her, and she saw his stalwart figure against the
                        fading west.
                    "Mr. Montgomery is getting nervous about you; he said for you to
                        hurry! The fact is that I bored him and he needs you to cheer him
                        up."
                    "Which is fishing," Phil replied. "I had the
                        dishes to wash. There's a lot to do in a camp."
                    
                    "You'd better not mention the dishwashing; that's
                        what made him cross."
                    "Cross! Dear old Amy cross!" laughed Phil. "Why,
                        Fred, he does n't know how to spell the word!"
                    They followed a lane beside a cornfield, talking spiritedly. Fred paused,
                        lifted his head and filled his lungs with the fresh cool air. It was with a
                        sense of elation that he traversed these fields of his own tilling and
                        sowing and reaping. There was something in his bronzed face that had not
                        been there when Phil first knew him. He carried his shoulders straighter and
                        was less timid; he expressed himself with more confidence and was beyond
                        question on very good terms with the world. At every meeting they had
                        somehow seemed to make progress; they really got on famously together now
                        that he was no longer shy in her company and had caught the spirit of her
                        humor.
                    She had wondered frequently whether she was in love with him. Her
                        speculations had been purely subjective; she had not been concerned in the
                        least with his attitude toward her. It had occurred to her in other moods
                        that he would be an interesting character in a book and she had even jotted
                        down notes which would have astonished him greatly if he had been vouchsafed
                        a glance at those amazing memoranda. Viewed objectively he was an attractive
                        protagonist for a story dealing with the return to the soil of a young man,
                        who, trying city life without success, sought refuge in the fields of his
                        ancestors. The heroine must be a haughty city girl whose scorn should yield
                        slowly to admiration and love. The last chapter of the tale should be called
                        "The Harvest." She thought well of the idea, and meant to
                        sketch an outline of it as soon as she finished a short story about the
                        young gentleman who presided over the soda-fountain at Struby's,
                        the simple chronicle of whose love affair with the cashier at
                        Bernstein's she was just now transcribing for
                        "Journey's End."
                    A new incident for that delectable yarn now popped into her head. Fred was
                        talking about the corn which had  nothing
                        whatever to do with Struby's or the cashier at
                        Bernstein's. She stopped and whistled as the revelation of new
                        possibilities in her story flashed upon her.
                    "What's the matter, Phil?"
                    "Nothing," she answered. "I just thought of
                        something!"
                    Phil rested her arms on the top rail of the fence and lifted her eyes
                        dreamily to the glowing planet that for the moment reigned alone in the
                        heavens. But her thoughts were in Main Street, not in Jupiter. The inspector
                        on the trolley linethe one with the red mustache, the one who had punched
                        the head of a conductor for disputing the justice of a reprimand for which
                        the inspector had been responsible he must certainly be brought into the
                        story. She was disgusted with herself that it had never occurred to her
                        before. The adored cashier should enter the drug-store to refresh herself
                        with a chocolate sundae, and the inspector should follow"
                    "Phil," said Fred.
                    Phil, intent upon her characters, did not respond. She did not know that her
                        face lifted to the bright planet had quickened his pulses, roused a thousand
                        longings in his heart.
                    His hand stole along the rail until it touched hers. In her deep absorption
                        she did not notice it, or pretended that she did not; but when he took a
                        step nearer she drew her hand away gently. The star held her gaze as though
                        it possessed some mesmeric power. A smile was upon her face as the situation
                        at the soda-water counter took form, became a veritable drama in her
                        imagination.
                    She struck her hands together and chirruped. Fred stared at her, abashed. His
                        hand lay where it had been, but her warm slim fingers had slipped away! When
                        Phil was "thinking" she wholly bewildered him. Just as a
                        girl, the loveliest in the world, Phil was far enough removed from him; but
                        as a girl who "wrote," who improvised verses, who was
                        caught away as by invisible hands in her fitful dreaming, she deepened his
                        humility. He had often wondered whether he would ever gain courage to touch
                        her hand in just that  way; and now that he
                        had dared it had profited him nothing. She had apparently been wholly
                        unmindful of an act that had left him trembling. She had n't even
                        resented it!
                    "Phil, I've been looking forward to seeing you all day.
                        I've been thinking about youparticularly."
                    "That's not so surprising," replied Phil,
                        returning to earth a little reluctantly, "when I've been
                        seeing you every evening and it was pretty sure to happen so to-day.
                        Let's hurry along or Amy will say bitter things to us that he will
                        always regret."
                    "I want to tell you something before we go on," he said,
                        with a gravity that caused her to look at him sharply.
                    "Fred Holton, you and I are old friends now, and good pals. I hope
                        you're not going to spoil it all."
                    "I love you, Phil; I can't help telling you: I have to tell
                        you now."
                    She reached down, picked up a pebble and flung it at the star.
                    Assured, by the sound of its fall afar off in the corn, that it had missed
                        Jupiter, she gave him her attention. He broke in before she could speak.
                    "I know there are reasons why I should n't tell you. I want
                        you to know I have thought about them; I know that there are family reasons
                        why"
                    She laid her hand gently on his arm.
                    "Dear old Fred," she began, as a boy might have spoken to a
                        comrade in trouble, "there's nothing about you that is
                        n't altogether fine. The thing you were about to say you
                        don't need to sayever! If Amy did n't know you were one of
                        the best fellows in the world, he would n't have got behind you
                        when things were going wrong. He knew all those things that are in your mind
                        and he did n't care, and you may be sure I don't. So
                        that's all right, Fred."
                    His hope mounted as she spoke. The hand on his arm thrilled him. The fact
                        that he was a Holton did not, then, make any difference, and he had been
                        troubled about that ever since he realized how dear she had grown to
                        him.
                    
                    "You've all been mighty good to me. If it had n't
                        been for your father and Mr. Montgomery, I should have lost the farm.
                        I'm better off than I ever expected to be and I owe it all to them.
                        It's a big thing when a fellow's clear down and out to
                        have helping hands like theirs. I don't know how to say these
                        things, but I love you, Phil. You don't know what it has meant to
                        know youhow thinking about you makes the day's work easier as I
                        tramp these fields. I know I ought n't to ask a girl like you to
                        share a farmer's life, but I'll be so good to you, Phil!
                        And I mean to go on and win. You've made the world a different
                        place for me, Phil. I know what a poor clod I am, but I mean to study and to
                        try and measure up to you."
                    "Cut out that last proposition, Fred! I'm the
                        harumscarumest girl on earth and I know it. I'd be a real handicap
                        to you, or any other man. Gracious! Why did n't you tell me you
                        were going to make love to me and I'd have put on my other suit.
                        I'll never forgive you for this, Fred Holton; it's taking
                        an unkind advantage!"
                    "I don't believe you think I mean it!" he cried
                        despairingly, as her gaze wandered across the fields to the far horizon.
                    "If I thought you did n't, I should never speak to you
                        again," she declared severely, meeting his eyes.
                    
                        "The corn was glad
                        When he had told his love. The evening star
                        Chortled in joy. The cattle on the hills
                    
                    Oh, come on, Fred, and let's stop foolishing!"
                    "Please, Phil? If only you cared a little!" he pleaded
                        forlornly.
                    "A little! I care a whole lot about you! I respect you and admire
                        you; and I suppose, to be real frank about it, I love you a little tiny bit.
                        But as for marrying you or anybody elsethat's different, oh, very
                        different! You see, Fred," she continued, abruptly abandoning her
                        half-chaffing tone, "the ice is too thin; it makes me shudder to
                        think of it!  Instead of people being settled
                        when they get married, it seems to make them nervous. I'm going to
                        study and work and work and work! I want to see what kind
                        of a life I can build up for myselfand then I want to stand off and look at
                        ita good long look before I allow anybody else to have a share in it.
                        That's all of that, Fred."
                    "But, Phil."
                    As she started toward the house he stepped quickly in front of her. The
                        shadows deepened round them, and the wind whispered in the corn. The rattle
                        of a wagon descending Listening Hill reached them faintly and Phil lifted
                        her head at the vague, blurred sound. After her brave speech a mood of
                        loneliness swept her heart, and the cheer with which she had lately
                        fortified herself against depression failed to respond to her summons. She
                        had no control over the lives of her mother and father. The one beyond the
                        sea was not more hopelessly remote than the other in his camp by the creek.
                        They and all the others who were near and dear Amzi, even, and Nan and
                        Roseseemed strangely beyond her reach. The fields, the woodlands etched
                        darkly against the sky, suddenly became Fred's allies. He was of
                        kin to them; he had confessed in their later talks to a simple spiritual
                        faith born of contact with the earth, the study of its secrets, the
                        pondering of its mysteries. With him there would be peace and security. Her
                        heart ached with tenderness and longing. The qualities her nature lacked he
                        supplied, and love and faith like his were not lightly to be put aside. Fred
                        in the dusk before her took form in her mind as a refuge and hope. He was
                        big and strong and kind; he loved her and it was sweet to be loved by him.
                        He took her hands, that fluttered and became still like two forlorn birds;
                        and then her arms stole round his neck in a tight clasp.
                    "Dear Fred!" she cried, half-sobbing;
                        "don't you ever leave me!"
                    A little later, as they walked hand in hand toward the house, he pointed
                        toward the creek.
                    
                    "You see, Phil, about your work, I've thought all that out.
                        I want you to go on with it. I've planned a kind of studio for you
                        over there, in that clump of trees on the edge of the Run. I'm
                        going to build a little bungalow, all glass on the creek side, where you can
                        study and write, while I'm off making the corn grow. And in the
                        evenings we'll go out there and sit and talk. I've thought
                        a lot about that."
                    "But, you goose, that won't be helping you any, the way a
                        farmer's wife has to help her husband. I won't be of any
                        use to you, writing pieces for editors to fire back at me."
                    "They won't send them back; and if they do, I'll
                        punch their heads."
                    "And daddy can live with us, can't healways, Fred? Where we
                        are will be home for him!"
                    "Yes; of course, Phil. I've thought about that, too.
                        I've thought about almost everything. And I'm not afraid
                        of life, Phil,not with you. Out here in the fields it's different
                        from anywhere else, and easier. Those old stars are closer, some way, here
                        in the country. You've got more room to think in, and it is
                        n't a narrow life, but a broad one when you consider it.
                        You've taught me to understand all that, Phil! I believe you feel a
                        good deal about it as I do, and the work you want to do ought to be better
                        for being done out here where the corn grows tall. We won't stay
                        here always. We'll go off in the winters and look at the big world,
                        and come back home to study it over. And we'll try to do a little
                        good as we go along."
                    "Yes; we must n't forget that, Fred."
                    His simple way of speaking of things that meant much to him had always
                        touched her. Her pressure tightened on his hand and he bent and kissed
                        her.
                    "But, Fred!" she exclaimed suddenly, as they loitered on,
                        "Amy will be awfully cross. We'd planned to go abroad next
                        summer, and he won't forgive me if I get married so I
                        can't."
                    "Oh, don't you worry about him!"
                    
                    "Of course I'll worry about him; why should n't
                        I?" she demanded.
                    "Because I told him I was going to ask you," Fred laughed,
                        "and he said "Thunder" and blew his nose and
                        wished me good luck!"
                    "When did all that happen, if you please, sir?"
                    "Last Sunday. We talked about you all afternoon."
                    "And he saidoh, the hypocrite!" she cried; and then
                        declared resolutely, "I'm going to muss him! Come on,
                        Fred; I'll race you to the house!"
                    THE END
                
            
        
        
            
            
                The Riverside press CAMBRIDGE. MASSACHUSETTS U. S. A
            
            
            
                A HOOSIER CHRONICLE
                By Meredith Nicholson
                "It is one of the bravest, sweetest, most optimistic books in which,
                    ever, plain truths of humanity and history have been mingled with the weavings
                    of fiction." N. Y. World.
                
                "Mr. Nicholson knows whereof he writes, and the picture of the political
                    and social life of the capital which he gives us in the present volume is
                    vigorous and convincing."Boston Transcript.
                
                "It puts Mr. Nicholson in the front rank of American novelists who are
                    trying to produce real literature."Indianapolis Star.
                
                "In "A Hoosier Chronicle" he has done something much
                    bigger, and given us a work of fiction of a richly human sort, creating real
                    characters and giving us a penetrating study of political life and domestic
                    relations in the commonwealth of Indiana."The Dial.
                
                Illustrated in color by F. C. Yohn.
                Square crown 8vo. $1.40 net. Postage 16 cents
                
            
            
            
                V. V.'S EYES
                By HENRY SYDNOR HARRISON
                ""V. V.'s Eyes" is a novel of so elevated a
                    spirit, yet of such strong interest, unartificial, and uncritical, that it is
                    obviously a fulfillment of Mr. Harrison's intention to "create
                    real literature.""Baltimore News.
                
                "In our judgment it is one of the strongest and at the same time most
                    delicately wrought American novels of recent years."The
                        Outlook.
                
                ""V. V.'s Eyes" is an almost perfect example
                    of idealistic realism. It has the soft heart, the clear vision and the boundless
                    faith in humanity that are typical of our American outlook on life."Chicago Record-Herald.
                
                "A delicate and artistic study of striking power and literary quality
                    which may well remain the high-water mark in American fiction for the year. ...
                    Mr. Harrison definitely takes his place as the one among our younger American
                    novelists of whom the most enduring work may be hoped for."Springfield Republican.
                
                Pictures by R. M. Crosby. Square crown 8vo.
                $1.35 net. Postage 14 cents.
                
            
            
            
                THE PROMISED LAND
                By MARY ANTIN
                "As a piece of literature, as a personal memoir, "The Promised
                    Land" stands out among the books of years, stirring, human, poignantly
                        alive."New York Times.
                
                "I consider Mary Antin's book one of the wonderful books, not
                    of this year or next, but of all the years."Jacob A.
                        Riis, N. Y.
                "The life-story of an eager, observant, reflective, aspiring, and always
                    original young woman whose formative years have been divided between the
                    stifling restrictions of the "Pale" and the glorious freedom
                    of America. The infectious optimism and high courage of the book, as well as the
                    vigor and picturesqueness of its style, with its frequent touches of humor,
                    gleams of mirth, and suggestions of poetry, win the reader at the outset and
                    hold him enthralled to the final page."Percy F.
                        Bicknell, in The Dial, Chicago.
                "I have no hesitation in saying that I consider it one of the books of
                    the year,a human document of deep impressiveness and moving
                        sincerity."Rabbi Stephen S. Wise, N. Y.
                With 18 Illustrations from photographs.
                $1.75 net. Postage 15 cents
                
            
            
            
                RECENT ESSAYS OF CHARM
                
                    THE PROVINCIAL AMERICAN
                    
                    By MEREDITH NICHOLSON
                    "The charm and originality that distinguished Mr. Nicholson as a
                        novelist will distinguish him as an essayist if future works fulfill the
                        promise of the present volume."Chicago Tribune.
                    
                    $1.25 net. Postage 10 cents
                
                
                    THE AMERICAN MIND
                    
                    By BLISS PERRY
                    "An interesting study of the American mind and American character.
                        ... Professor Perry is not one of those scholars whose interests are
                        confined to books. In these essays, accordingly, while the literary interest
                        is perhaps paramount, social and political realms are likewise laid under
                            contribution."Newark News.
                    
                    $1.25 net. Postage 10 cents
                
                
                    A DOCTOR'S TABLE-TALK
                    
                    By JAMES G. MUMFORD
                    "It is not easy to suggest the charm of such a volume, rich in the
                        indefinable, uplifting atmosphere resulting from wide reading and wider
                        sympathies, conjoined with deep knowledge of humanity."Chicago Record-Herald.
                    
                    $1.25 net. Postage 10 cents
                
                
                    THE JONATHAN PAPERS
                    
                    By ELISABETH WOODBRIDGE
                    "Lovers of outdoor life are sure to like these outdoor essays,with
                        such subjects as duck shooting, fishing, rainy morning walks, canoe trips,
                        drives, etc.,which are whimsical at times and cheerfully imaginative
                            always."Chicago Inter-Ocean.
                    
                    $1.25 net. Postage 9 cents
                    
                
            
            
        
    
