
     ----CITATION---- 
        Eggleston, Edward, 1837-1902. The Transit of Civilization from England to America in the Seventeenth
                    Century: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2405
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
            
            
                A HISTORY OF LIFE IN THE UNITED STATES
                
            
            
            
                The Beginners of a Nation.
                A History of the Source and Rise of the Earliest English Settlements in America,
                    with Special Reference to the Life and Character of the People. A volume in A
                    History of Life in the United States. By EDWARD EGGLESTON. Small 8vo. Cloth, uncut, with Maps, $1.50.
                
                    The New York Evening Post says:
                "Few works on the period which it covers can compare with this in point of mere
                    literary attractiveness, and we fancy that many to whom its scholarly value will
                    not appeal will read the volume with interest and delight."
                
                    The New York Times says:
                "Written with a firm grasp of the theme, inspired by ample knowledge, and made
                    attractive by a vigorous and resonant style, the book will receive much
                    attention. It is a great theme the author has taken up, and he grasps it with
                    the confidence of a master."
                
                    The Boston Saturday Evening Gazette says:
                "Mr. Eggleston's 'Beginners' is unique. No similar historical study has, to our
                    knowledge, ever been done in the same way. Mr. Eggleston is a reliable reporter
                    of facts; but he is also an exceedingly keen critic. He writes history without
                    the effort to merge the critic in the historian. His sense of humor is never
                    dormant. He renders some of the dullest passages in colonial annals actually
                    amusing by his witty treatment of them. He finds a laugh for his readers where
                    most of his predecessors have found yawns. And with all this he does not
                    sacrifice the dignity of history for an instant."
                
                    The Philadelphia Public Ledger says:
                "The delightful style, the clear flow of the narrative, the philosophical tone,
                    and the able analysis of men and events will recommend Mr. Eggleston's work to
                    earnest students."
                
                    The Boston Journal says:
                "The work is worthy of careful reading, not only because of the author's ability
                    as a literary artist, but because of his conspicuous proficiency in interpreting
                    the causes of and changes in American life and character."
                D. APPLETON AND COMPANY, NEW YORK.
            
            
            
                
                    THE TRANSIT OF CIVILIZATION FROM ENGLAND TO AMERICA
                        IN THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY
                
                BY
                    EDWARD EGGLESTON AUTHOR OF THE BEGINNERS OF A NATION
                
                    NEW YORK
                    D. APPLETON AND COMPANY
                    1901
                
            
            
            
                COPYRIGHT, 1900, BY
                    EDWARD EGGLESTON.
            
            
            
                TO FRANCES MY WIFE
            
            
            
            
                PREFACE
                IS seeking to give a history of the civilization of the
                    seventeenth century there was little help in anything American, and, to my
                    surprise, I found long ago that I could not count on anything English.
                        Preface
                     There were many books on Shakespeare, more or less good when they were
                    not bad, and there was Masson's ponderous Life and Times of John Milton in six
                    octavo volumes. These afforded something, but the civilization of the century
                    was not told in any of them. It became necessary to build a description from the
                    ground. The complex states of knowing and thinking, of feeling and passion, must
                    be explained. The little world as seen by the man of the seventeenth century
                    must be understood. Its sun, moon, and planets were flames of fire without
                    gravity, revolved about the earth by countless angels; its God governed this one
                    little world with mock majesty. Its heaven, its horrible hell of material fire
                    blown by the mouth of God, its chained demons whose fetters might be loosed, its
                    damnation of infants were to be appreciated and expounded. The inhumanity of
                    punishments and of sport in that day, the mixture made of religion and
                    revengethese and a hundred other things went to make up the traits of the
                    century. To explain the things in this other age in which I found myself it was
                    necessary to go to England. To understand England one must understand the
                    Continent; to make this out one must often thread his way to antiquity. The use
                    of Latin by nearly all scholars made the world's knowledge more  or less common to all. My little corner widened
                    out into a part of all human history.
                Eclipses, parhelia, comets, were danger signals hung out in the heavens as
                    warnings. Logic was the only implement for the discovery of truth. Observation
                    was in its birth throes. Medicines were recognized by signaturism; on this
                    slender basis what a towering structure was built! Right and wrong were thought
                    of only as the result of direct revelation; they had not yet found standing room
                    in the great theater of natural knowledge. Until we understand these things we
                    write the history of the seventeenth century in vain. It is the last age which
                    sought knowledge of physical things by deduction. The next century brought
                    philosophy and philosophy dawned into science.
                We must apply to the seventeenth century the severe canons of history; people
                    with ancestors will be disappointed. We can not make out in the seventeenth
                    century the great destiny of Virginia in the eighteenth. We must not be sure
                    that the future greatness of later New England is wrapped up in the peculiarly
                    narrow and forbidding husk of the later seventeenth century. Nor can commercial
                    greatness be predicted of New York; nor did Pennsylvania show signs of the great
                    industries developed from her coal fields. The causes of greatness are not
                    always traceable. Where least looked for may develop the next group of statesmen
                    and authors, of inventors and great merchants. We may write history, but we may
                    not prophesy.
                JOHUA'S ROCK, LAKE GEORGE, November, 1900.
            
            
            
                CONTENTS.
                
                    CHAPTER THE FIRST.
                    MENTAL OUTFIT OF THE EARLY COLONISTS
                        1
                        
                    CHAPTER THE SECOND.
                    DIGRESSION CONCERNING MEDICAL NOTIONS AT THE PERIOD
                        OF SETTLEMENT
                        48
                        
                    CHAPTER THE THIRD.
                    MOTHER ENGLISH, FOLK-SPEECH, FOLK-LORE, AND LITERATURE
                        96
                        
                    CHAPTER THE FOURTH.
                    WEIGHTS AND MEASURES OF CONDUCT
                        141
                        
                    CHAPTER THE FIFTH.
                    THE TRADITION OF EDUCATION
                        207
                        
                    CHAPTER THE SIXTH.
                    LAND AND LABOR IN THE EARLY COLONIES
                        273
                        
                
            
            
        
        
            
            
                THE TRANSIT OF CIVILIZATION.
                
                    CHAPTER THE FIRST.
                            CHAP. 1.
                        
                    
                    MENTAL OUTFIT OF THE EARLY COLONISTS.
                    
                        I.
                        WHAT are loosely spoken of as national characteristics
                            are probably a result not so much of heredity as of controlling
                                traditions.
                                The first English-Americans.
                             Seminal ideas received in childhood, standards of feeling and
                            thinking and living handed down from one overlapping generation to
                            another, make the man English or French or German in the rudimentary
                            outfit of his mind. A gradual change in fundamental notions produces the
                            difference between the character of a nation at an early epoch and that
                            of the same people in a later age. In taking account of the mental
                            furniture which the early English emigrants carried aboard ship with
                            them, we shall gain a knowledge of what may be called the original
                            investment from which has been developed Anglo-Saxon culture in America.
                            The mother country of the United States was England in the first half of
                            the seventeenth century, or, at most, England before the Revolution of
                            1688. From the English spoken in the days of the Stuart kings came  our primitive speech, and the opinions,
                            prejudices, and modes of thinking of the English in that day lay at the
                            bottom of what intellectual life there was in the colonies. Some
                            seventeenth-century characteristics, long since lost or obscured in
                            England, may yet be recognized in the folk-lore and folk-speech, the
                            superstitions and beliefs of people in America. The number of English
                            who crossed the seas before the middle of the century was above thirty
                            thousand. Those who survived the first rude outset of pioneer life, with
                            their fast-multiplying progeny, numbered probably fifty thousand in
                            1650, and this population was about halved between the colonies on the
                            Chesapeake waters and those to the northward of the Dutch settlement on
                            the New England coast. To these early comers it is due that the speech,
                            the usages, the institutions, and the binding traditions of the United
                            States are English.
                    
                    
                        II.
                        In reckoning the mental outfit of the first comers we should only mislead
                            ourselves by recalling the names of Jonson and Shakespeare and the other
                            lights that were shining when the Susan Constant and her two little
                            consorts sailed out of the Thames to bear a company of English people to
                            the James River.
                                Milton and Shakespeare.
                             Nor will it avail much to remember that Milton was a Puritan at
                            the same time with Cotton and Hooker and Winthrop. The emigrants had no
                            considerable part in the  higher
                            intellectual life of the age; the great artistic passions of Shakespeare
                            and Milton touched them not at any point. Bacon's contribution to the
                            art of finding truth did not belong to them. Men may live in the same
                            time without being intellectual contemporaries.
                    
                    
                        III.
                        The science that touched the popular imagination in the seventeenth
                            century was astronomy.
                                The Copernican system.
                             "God gave to man an upright face that he might view the stars
                            and learn astronomy," according to a couplet of the time.
                                Wilkin' works 271.
                             As then accepted astronomy was a jumble of the prevalent
                            Ptolemaic theory of the universe with the world at the center, and of
                            the odds and ends of medival astrologymoon-signs, zodiac-signs,
                            horoscopes, ominous eclipses followed by devastating fires, and comets
                            presaging disaster and the death of princes, with the mystical doctrine
                            of the dominance of planets over plants, minerals, and diseases. The
                            Coper-nican system, which essayed to displace the "firm-set earth" from
                            that central position in the universe it had so long occupied, made
                            headway slowly. In the interval between the landing of the Jamestown
                            gold hunters and that of the Plymouth Pilgrims, the great Kepler,
                            working in obscurity, developed the three principles which are the
                            foundations of modern astronomy. It was two years before the beginning
                            of the Plymouth settlement that, in poverty and neglect, he wrote:
                            "Farewell,  Ptolemy! I am turning back to
                            Aristarchus under the lead of Copernicus"; and in the loneliness of his
                            convictions he said in the same year, "My book may well wait a hundred
                            years for a reader, since God himself for six thousand years awaited a
                                discoverer."
                                CHAP. I.
                             After Virginia and New England were securely settled, Galileo
                            was imprisoned for demonstrating the earth's motion regardless of the
                            time-honored opinion of Joshua the son of Nun and the indubitable
                            witness of everybody's senses.
                                Kepler, De Cometis, p.98.
                             As the middle of the century approached, one finds Copernicanism
                            spoken of as "the theory that has so stirred all our modern wits."
                                Ibid., Harmonicus Mundi, 178, 179.
                             In strictly orthodox circles, in good society, and among the
                            people generally, the sun, the moon, the planets, and the fixed stars
                            continued to revolve round the earth as aforetime to lighten the paths
                            of men or at least to twinkle on them, to lord it over plants and
                            animals, to indicate the nature of diseases, and to foretell to the
                            expert the fortunes of the future.
                                Note I.
                             The rhetoric of colonial preachers still turned the universe of
                            fiery lights about the solid earth.
                                Howell' Letters, vol. iii, ix, and sir T. Browne's Vulgar Errors
                                    book vi, caps. v.
                             In 1666 and afterward one may read between the lines in the
                            non-committal writings of some Harvard mathematicians a possible
                            preference for Copernicanism.
                                Note 2.
                             Throughout the century the English-American colonists with a few
                            exceptions rested undisturbed in the notion that the center of universal
                            motion was the earth, and that the heavenly bodies were imponderable
                            flames hung up for the convenience of man.
                                Note 3.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        IV.
                        The interest in astronomy was mainly practical; the stars were thought to
                            exert a controlling influence on human affairs.
                                Astrology.
                             Kepler himself lived in part by casting horoscopes for princes,
                            as Tycho had done before him; it is by such scullion work that the world
                            in every age contrives to degrade its superior men and dissipate their
                                energies.
                                A table of the Astrological Houses of the Heaven, 1654.
                             John Winthrop, the younger, Governor of Connecticut, a fellow of
                            the Royal Society and a man of much learning, as learning was then
                            understood, possessed some of the works on astrology so much esteemed at
                            that time.
                                Note 4.
                             Among these is a book with astrological figures set one on each
                            page with the lower half of the page blank.
                                Note 5.
                             These diagrams are for every four minutes of time, and by means
                            of them "any reasonable artist" in such things "may give judgment of a
                            question." On one page some reasonable artist has essayed to find out,
                            by casting a horoscope, what was the ailment afflicting one Alice
                            Wilkins in 1656. Medicines were administered when the moon was in the
                            proper sign, and the almanacs of the eighteenth century told the farmer
                            to cut his brushwood in certain signs of the zodiac and in the decrease
                            of the moon, that it might not grow again, but to cut firewood in the
                            increase. Timber to last must be cut in the last quarter of the moon. So
                            Tusser, in his Points of Good Husbandry, says, "The moon in the wane
                            gather fruit for to last." The Rev. Jared Elliot,  the leading colonial writer on agriculture in the middle of
                            the eighteenth century, shows great respect to the zodiac, and the
                            prosperity of the Pennsylvania German was attributed to his regard for
                            the moon's phases.
                                Note 6.
                             In many regions to-day the moon rules the planting of potatoes,
                            the cutting of hair, and the killing of pigs; and women wean their
                            infants in the proper sign of the zodiac.
                                Comets and other portents.
                             These are the ragged remnants of the ancient and complicated
                            science of astrology which survived from the middle ages, and which with
                            much other strange baggage of the sort crossed the wide seas with the
                            emigrants to America.
                                Alexander Nowell, Cambridge Almanac, 1666.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        V.
                        Most people knew little of the complicated mysteries of horoscopes, and
                            they understood less of the jargon of astrology.
                                Note 7.
                             But the unlearned kept pace with the learned in looking with
                            religious dread upon comets.
                                Nowell, as above.
                             "Experience Attests and reason Asserts that they have served for
                            sad Prologues to tragical Epilogues." The words are those of perhaps the
                            earliest American writer on astronomy; the opinion was that of the world
                            at large in his time. On the science of prognostication by comets
                            learned men disagreed. "Some," says the writer we have just quoted, "put
                            much trust or vertue in the tail, terming it the Ignomon." Naturally
                            enough a comet "operated most powerfully" on the people to whom it was
                            "vertical"  that is to say, over whose heads
                            the body of it passed.
                                Spencer, Of Natural Prodigies, 14.
                             Some thought that comets were themselves agents of mischief,
                            drying up the moisture of Nature and thus producing droughts and
                            pestilential fevers, and inflaming the anger of princes; as they were
                            supposed to be in combustion they excited the air to tempests, and thus
                            raised great waves and inundated the earth.
                                Compare Kepler's De Cometis, 104, 105.
                             The winds driven into caves, and by some means imprisoned in the
                            earth, made the ground quake in their endeavors to get out, said the
                                astrologers.
                                Compare Kepler, as above, 107, 108.
                             Others believed that they were but a sort of celestial weather
                            signal hung out to give warning of the imminence of calamities ordained
                            by God.
                                John Edwards, Cometomania, p. 3, 1684.
                             Yet others believed that, in the phrase of the time, they were
                            "both effectual and significant.
                                Josselyn, Chron. Obs. sub anno. Compare the
                                    horoscope of an eclipse in Chauncey's Cambridge, Mass., Almanac
                                    for 1663.
                            " It was noted in New England that when John Cotton, the great
                            ecclesiastical luminary of the first generation, drew near his end, a
                            comet appeared which "went out" soon after the preacher's death. The
                            blight of 1665, that put an end to the hope of prosperity from
                            wheat-raising in Massachusetts, was heralded by "a great and blazing
                            comet," which, like all portents and omens, lacked definiteness, for it
                            was "accompanied with many sad effects" beside. John Hull, the pine-tree
                            shilling-maker, calls the attention of a correspondent to the comet of
                            1680 with a pious ejaculation of alarm: "The Lord fit us and you for all
                            his will and pleasure." A protagonist of Puritanism in its decline was
                            Increase Mather. He was a pessimist with a keen relish  for the supernatural and sensational.
                                Am. Antiq. Soc. Trans., iii, 247. Compare D'Ewe's Autobiography,
                                    i, 123, and Royal MSS. Comm. Rept., xii, p. vii. Acct. book of
                                    Sir D. Fleming.
                             Nothing delighted him more than calamities past, present, or
                                potential.
                                Doc. Hist., N. Y., iii, 882
                             The brilliant comet of 1680 was a call from heaven for a man of
                            his genius; he re-enforced it by a sermon entitled "Heaven's Alarm to
                            the World.
                                Note 8.
                            " When two years later another blazing star burst upon a world
                            that had not yet had time to recover its equanimity, Mather proceeded to
                            expound this also in "The Latter Sign Discoursed of," and then followed
                            these with a book, for which he borrowed the title "Kometographia.
                                The Beginning, Progress, and
                            " In this the accidents by land and sea, the disasters of
                            pestilence, famine, war, and assassination, that had ever come trailing
                            after any comet, were once more rehearsed, as they had been rehearsed in
                            other times by other sensational moralists. The notable comet of 1680,
                            which set so many watchdogs baying at the sky, alarmed the Dutch
                            dwellers on the upper Hudson, as we may see in a letter dispatched by
                            their usual post, an Indian runner, to New York. In this they mention
                            the "Dreadful comett starr" "with a very fyery Tail or Streemer."
                            "Undoubtedly God threatens us," is their inference, and they crave
                            permission of superior authority in New York to cause "the Domine" to
                            proclaim in the church "a day of fasting and humiliation."
                        On the eve of Bacon's rebellion in Virginia, in 1676, the people were
                            warned, to no good purpose apparently, by signs in the heavens, in the
                            air, and out of the earth. To a comet "streaming like a  horse taile westwards" there was added
                            "fflights of pigeons in breadth nigh a quarter of the midhemisphere, and
                            of their length was no visible end.
                                Conclusion of Bacon's Rebellion, by T. M., Force, i.
                            " This ought to have been enough to frighten even the easy-going
                            Virginians of that time out of their sins, but comet and pigeons were
                            re-enforced by a third omenstrange swarms of flies "rising out of spigot
                            holes in the earth"; no doubt what are now known as the seventeen-year
                                locusts.
                                Note 9.
                             Not only comets, but eclipses, parhelia, or "multiplied suns,"
                            and other unusual phenomena were beheld with awe.
                                Compare Evelyn's Diary, I, 264, and Henry King's sermon at Pavl's
                                    Crosse, 1621, p. 15.
                             In auroras the colonists saw swords of flame brandished, and
                            fiery horsemen charging in ghostly battle.
                                Lambert's New Haven, 190.
                             There was always the chance that a particularly brilliant
                            display of northern lights might prove an awful forerunner, not of war
                            and famine, but of the combustion of the earth and the crack of doom
                                itself.
                                Compare The Rainbow, a sermon at Pavl's Crosse, 1617, by
                                Bourne.
                             Rainbows, on the other hand, were recorded with a "Laus
                                Deo.
                                Sewall's Diary, ii, 189, 314, 318.
                            " The people of Boston were comforted by a rainbow after the
                            unlucky outcome of an expedition against Port Royal in 1707, but nothing
                            else came of it.
                                Spontaneous generation.
                             The rainbow which raised all hopes at the outset of an
                            expedition, in 1711, also played Boston false.
                    
                    
                        VI.
                        From Greek and Roman antiquity down at least to the middle of the
                            seventeenth century no scientific proposition was more universally
                            received than that insects and some birds, fishes, and  reptiles were generated by putrefaction,
                            or, to turn the proposition round, that all putrefaction produced
                                life.
                                Note 10.
                             From the bodies of decaying horses came hornets; but kine in
                            decomposition produced honeybees.
                                Porta, Magia Nat., liber xv, caput iv.
                             Ovid says that this was known by experience, and later writers
                            quoted his verses on the subject and saved themselves the necessity of
                            observation. The practical bee-keeper of the seventeenth century did not
                            read the classics, or Gesner or Mouffet, or any of the other innumerable
                            Latin treatises on animal life, but he did look into his hive
                            occasionally, and he knew that a bee came from a "little worm" in the
                            comb. Bees taken from England to Virginia and New England prospered. But
                            the traveler Josselyn entertained the hope that, when the carnivorous
                            animals should have been exterminated, American bees might be produced
                            from dead bullocks, after the approved scientific formula. Some kinds of
                            wasps had their origin in the decay of apples and pears; the most
                            superficial observer might find them to his sorrow issuing from the
                            fruit. Minnows were produced from foam, carp came from putrid slime, the
                            oyster, the nautilus, and other shellfish from different kinds of
                            putrescence mixed sometimes with mud, sometimes combined with the sand
                            of the sea bottom. So far did Nature carry this economy that even the
                            discarded tails of New England tadpoles were not suffered to go to
                            waste: out of them were formed the water newts, as Josselyn takes pains
                            to explain. Lord Bacon, who flounders  like
                            a stranded leviathan when he seeks to explore the coasts of physical
                            science, suggests that toads come from the corruption of water mixed
                            with mud; to "old snow" he attributes the generation of those red larv
                            or "worms" which are yet believed by the unlearned to have "snowed
                                down.
                                Baconapos;s Natural History, passim.
                            " A chemist of that day, whose work was reprinted by the Royal
                            Society, says of fermenting bread dough that "unless it were bridled and
                            restrained by Artificial Fire it would proceed to vitality and produce
                                worms.
                                Otto Tachenius, His Clavis, 6.
                            " It was held in Elizabeth's time, and long before and after,
                            that parasites were bred from the body on which they lived.
                                Note II.
                             As late as 1676, when Bacon, the Virginia rebel, in his last
                            illness found himself obliged to cast his discarded garments directly
                            into the fire, the presence of the parasites was thought to be one of
                            the results of his disease and a divine judgment on him for rebellion,
                            though the case is sufficiently explained by the fact that he had been
                            dwelling in Indian wigwams a few weeks before.
                                Comp. Tiraboschi, ii, 430, on the production if fossil trees.
                             The persistence of vitality was held then as the persistence of
                            force is now; "no one living creature corrupts without the production of
                            another," was an accepted maxim.
                                Note 12.
                             Lord Bacon states it more cautiously: "Briefly, most things
                            putrefied bring forth insects of various names."
                    
                    
                        VII.
                        If there was much lack of book learning in the generation of English
                            people that sprung up first  on American
                            soil, there was some gain in a life in which exigent wants compelled a
                            habit of shrewd observation.
                                Note 13.
                             For centuries strange theories had prevailed among learned and
                            unlearned regarding the origin of those far-wandering waterfowl whose
                            distant resting places were yet undiscovered. Following the analogy of
                            the accepted theory regarding the production of "insects," including
                            frogs, mice, and snakes, there were those who derived many birds from
                            wood rotting in the water, or from decaying fruits. Others said that
                            some birds grew on trees, and proved it by showing the shells of the
                            nuts from which the bird had emerged. The so-called barnacle goose had
                            been held for centuries to develop from the shellfish barnacle which
                            clings to the bottom of a ship or a water-soaked timber. More than one
                            writer of standing testified to the metamorphosis on the evidence of his
                            own senses, at least he had found a barnacle all befeathered and ready
                            to take flight. Easy-going casuists treated the barnacle goose as a fish
                            by virtue of its marine origin, and it was served up to monks and other
                            self-indulgent fasters on Fridays. Such a myth could not be long held in
                            solution by American tradition; barnacle geese were not found, and the
                            unlearned pioneer seeking his meat by prowling along the reedy shores of
                            rivers, ponds, and estuaries with a great fowling piece six or seven
                            feet long in the barrel came to know the life habits of waterfowl better
                            than any of that procession of philosophers who with pedantic learning
                            copied  incredibilities from one Latin book
                            to another down the ages.
                                Burton's Anat., ii, 2, 3.
                             One bit of ornithology of that time crossed the seas, and
                            perhaps by virtue of its absurdity was able to hold its own in America
                            for two hundred years.
                                Carew's Cornwall, 1602, fol, 23.
                             The annual disappearance of migratory birds and their return in
                            the spring demanded explanation, and in old British folk-lore it was
                            held that such birds were accustomed to lie hid in caves, rocks, and
                            hollow trees.
                                Histori de Gentibus Septentrionalibus, 418, abridgment.
                             In Cornwall it was reported that swallows out of season had been
                            "found sitting in old deepe Tynneworkes and holes in the Sea
                                Cliffes.
                                Note 14.
                            " Olaus Magnus, a banished Scandinavian bishop living at Rome,
                            published in the sixteenth century a work learned in form but as full of
                            things unbelievable as the writings of the much-venerated Pliny.
                                Note 15. Morton in Harleiam
                             He told on the never-to-be-questioned authority of fishermen
                            that they had drawn up torpid swallows in their nets which came to life
                            on warming. He even gave all the details of their taking refuge for the
                            winter in the clay at the bottom of the river. Once this fond story of
                            the fishermen got itself printed in Latin and authenticated by a bishop,
                            it became a scientific fact. The new notion almost crowded out the old
                            folk-theory of hibernation in caves and holes, and held its own for two
                            centuries, to be reluctantly discarded almost in our time. The
                            revelations of the telescope made the moon seem near, and Bishop Godwin
                            formed a new theory of hibernation in the satellites, which was
                            elaborated by Charles Morton, an Oxford scholar,  whose old age was passed in Massachusetts.
                                Miscell., Park's edition, vol. ii, 581.
                             He preached a sermon from a text in Jeremiah, from which he
                            deduced a winter home for all kinds of migratory birds among the newly
                            revealed mountains and valleys of the moon.
                                But see same suggestion in Godwin's Voyage to the Moon, 1638. And
                                    compare Wilkin's works, 134.
                             If that were thought too far away for wing travel, Morton was
                            willing to split the difference by suggesting that the earth might have
                            some smaller satelliteslittle undiscovered gull islands in the heavens
                            for the birds to roost upon.
                                Other phases of thought regarding animals and plants.
                             After Morton's death, omnivorous and marvel-loving Cotton Mather
                            appropriated this hypothesis as a piece of flotsam, and wrote a letter
                            to the Royal Society in which he suggested that the prodigious flights
                            of pigeons in the colonies rendered probable the existence of an unseen,
                            near-at-hand satellite, from which came these myriads of birds, and to
                            which they were wont to retreat again. But the English colonists who
                            touched elbows with Nature, and had larger opportunities for observation
                            than their island ancestors, came to accept the annual migration of the
                            disappearing birds before the middle of the eighteenth century. There
                            were, however, learned pundits in Philadelphia as late as 1800, who
                            followed Olaus in wintering their swallows in the bottoms of the
                        rivers.
                    
                    
                        VIII.
                        Classification, which is at once the result of knowledge and an
                            instrument of investigation, was infantile and unstable even among the
                            learned.  Fishes, including, of course, sea
                            mammals, had been divided into round and long; to these Harrison adds
                            shelled fishes and legged fishes.
                                CHAP. I
                                
                             Popular classification is always rough, but in that day nobody
                            held firmly to the cardinal division of the vertebrate animals.
                                Holinshed, i, 377.
                             The beaver and otter were even divided transversely in
                            classification; their hind quarters were counted with the fishes.
                                Russell's Boke of Nurture, Early English Text Society, v, 153,
                                    and note from Topsell.
                             In ecclesiastical regulations it was not always thought worth
                            while to make two bites of a beaver; Lorrainers and Savoyards, as well
                            as Canadian woodsmen, ate freely of his flesh on fish days, making sure
                            that the meat of so aquatic an animal with so flat a tail could not be
                                flesh.
                                Salmon's English Physician, 324.
                             The interest in animal life was unscientific, being mainly an
                            interest in the marvelous stories of the basilisk hatched from a cock's
                            egg brooded by a toad, of the unicorn with a horn eight or ten feet long
                            growing out of his head, of the salamander that endured the fire, of the
                            phnix that lived five hundred years, of the common hare that changed sex
                            in alternate years, of men that were metamorphosed into wolves in
                            Ireland, of wolves that struck men dumb by seeing them first, of swans
                            that sing before dying, and so on and on.
                                Harrison, Holinsh., i, 379.
                             Wonders were not wanting among American animals; the unicorn was
                            observed on the Hudson, and many half-human creatures, reported by early
                            voyagers, dwelt along the seacoast from Cape Ann eastward.
                                On Unicorns, Brown's Travels, in Harris Voyages, ii, 524. Ray in
                                    same, 554-Hakewill' Apologie, "Of divers opinions justly
                                    suspected though commonly received," lib. C, I, sect. 5. Two
                                    Voyages, 25.
                             Sometimes these were seen at night dancing in groups about a
                            fire on the shore; one daring Triton swimming in Casco Bay  made bold to grasp the side of a canoe and
                            got his hand lopped off with a hatchet.
                                Compare Browne's Vulgar Errors generally and Shakesphere in many
                                    places.
                             Narrating these occurrences, Josselyn meditates that "there are
                            many stranger things in the world than are to be seen between London and
                                Stanes.
                                Comp. Sewall's Diary, ii, 493.
                            " We are accustomed to see popular credulity controlled by
                            scientific skepticism, but in the seventeenth century the learned looked
                            for scientific knowledge primarily in the writings of the ancients,
                            sacred and profane, and devoured most of the atrocious stories
                            accumulated by Pliny, "the greatest gull of antiquity.
                                The world invisible.
                            " When modern light began to dawn and science tried to observe,
                            it was not mainly the ordinary and the regular that were noted; members
                            of the new Royal Society and others thought to learn from the
                            monstrosities and marvels; New England ministers acted as soothsayers
                            and expounded the hidden meaning of monstrous births, and even played
                            showmen to exhibit these ghastly messages from the Almighty.
                    
                    
                        IX.
                        The world invisible as conceived in every age is a reflection of the
                            familiar material world; the image is often inverted: it may be
                            exaggerated, glorified, distorted, but it is still their own old world
                            mirrored in the clouds of heaven. Even the love of rank and ostentation
                            in the seventeenth centurythe snobbery of the ageprojected itself into
                            heavenly arrangements. In a day when idle 
                            serving men stood about the halls of a country gentleman merely to lend
                            dignity to the master, when one no greater than a high sheriff thought
                            it unfit to perform his functions without a squad of liveried retainers
                            at his heels, when a bishop in Christian humility rode about with
                            sometimes a hundred and fifty horsemen clanking after him, and when
                            kingly state was multitudinous in proportion, the majesty of Almighty
                            God required myriads of attendants.
                                Sonnet xix.
                             Milton thinks thus of God: 
                                His State
                                
                                    Is Kingly.
                                            The Invisible World, ed. 1659, p. 15.
                                         Thousands at his bidding speed
                                    And post o'er Land and Ocean without rest.
                                            As above, p. 18.
                                        
                                    
                                
                             And the prose of Bishop Hall is almost as lofty as Milton's verse,
                            when it contemplates "those next-to-infinite numbers of mighty and
                            majestical spirits, wherewith the great God of heaven hath furnished his
                            throne and footstool.
                                The good angels.
                            " Human arithmetic had no terms by which to tell the number of
                            those who "are numerable only to God who made them.
                                Digby's Peripateticall Institutions, 362, 398.
                            " The uncountable angels were employed in keeping the universe in
                            motion, as many eminent writers knew partly by intuition, but also by
                            metaphysical demonstration.
                                Hakewill's Apologie, 85, 86.
                             The busy angels turned round the crystalline spheres from the
                            outer primum mobile, just this side the immovable
                            abode of God, to the nethermost of all that carried the moon about in
                            her lagging revolutions. Besides this duty of keeping the lights of
                            heaven burning and turning, "these mighty 
                            angels" produced those "strange concussations of the earth" which are so
                            alarming and "direfull prodigies in the skie," about which it was not
                            deemed safe to speculate.
                                Hallt's Invisible World, 39,. and passim.
                                
                             Hall relates that one philosopher was stricken dead for
                            venturing to reason about thunderstorms.
                                Increase Mather's Illustrious Providences.
                             It was angelic agency that caused a corpse, in that believing
                            age, to bleed when touched by the guilty hand of the murderer.
                                The evil angels.
                             Angels gave warnings and revelations by dreams, by mental
                            impressions and by apparitions; and they even fought for men against the
                            spirits of the underworld.
                                Note 16.
                             Of such stuff as this the great Puritan poet wrought the
                            splendid fabric of his epic. To contemporary readers Paradise Lost had
                            as much of history as of poetry. It was an imaginative rendering of the
                            picturesque mythology of the seventeenth century, a mythology destined
                            to grow dim in the gray morning light of the critical century that
                            followed.
                    
                    
                        X.
                        The American settlers lived in a different world from that which they had
                            left in England, and their conceptions of the invisible could not escape
                            modification. Far removed from the ostentatious conventions of the old
                            civilization, the minds of the colonists could no longer form vivid
                            pictures of heavenly retinues. One finds few allusions to angelic agency
                            in their writings; thunderbolts which Bishop Hall, "the English Seneca,"
                            as he  was called, ascribes to good angels,
                            Cotton Mather, the New England Seneca, will have to be the work of
                            devils; on this hypothesis he easily explains the disproportionate
                            number of churches that suffered from lightning.
                                CHAP. I
                             The popular belief of the time in the active meddling of evil
                            spirits was not weakened by a life passed in coast settlements, between
                            a wide and wild sea and an impenetrable forest filled with beasts and
                                devil-worshipers.
                                Cotton's Way of the Churches Churches Cleared, 91. Savage's
                                    Winthrop, i, 313, 316, ii, 10, II.
                             Diabolical disturbances occurred rather early in all the
                            colonies, and they were particularly rife in New England, where the
                            imagination was set on edge by theological speculation.
                                Mass. Rec., 12, March, 1637.
                             In 1637 Jane Hawkins, the Boston midwife and dispenser of
                            quackery oil of mandrakes, was diligently examined on suspicion of
                            familiarity with the devil.
                                Winthrop, ii, 185. Hutch. Papers, 136.
                             Eight years later a man from Virginia, reported to have skill in
                            necromancy, was "blown up" in Boston Harbor, and strange to say it was
                            accounted a marvel that he could never afterward be found.
                                Increase Mather's Providences, 9699, and other authorities.
                             Yet more diabolical was it that men in fiery shapes, or "fire in
                            the shape of men," walked the water near where the ship had
                                exploded.
                                Comp. Mass. Rec., iii, 295, 347. Hutch. Mass., i, 179.
                                    Wonder-working Providences, iii, 2. S. Side Signal, Nov. 13,
                                    1880.
                             In the settlement on the Connecticut devils were particularly
                            active. Hartford, Stratford, Fairfield, and New Haven had witch trials,
                            and in some instances the ordeal of swimming the witch to see whether
                            she could float was resorted to. Springfield was accounted "infamous by
                            reason of the witches there," as the traveler Josselyn tells us. More
                            than one Long Island town had its shallows 
                            stirred by witchcraft accusations.
                                Barber's N. Y.
                             Boston brought its first witch to trial in 1648, and in 1656 the
                            wife of one of the magistrates was "hanged for a witch only for having
                            more wit than her neighbors," as was said at the time.
                                Coll., 462.
                             In 1654 a shipmaster sailing with emigrants to Maryland
                            encountered two months of stormy weather, such weather as only "the
                            malevolence of witches" could get up.
                                Mass. Rec. iii, 123.
                             The crew selected a little old woman of suitable appearance, one
                            Mary Lee, whom they examined "with strictest scrutiny, guilty or not
                                guilty.
                                Letters of Missionaries, 91. Md. Council Proceedings, 306308.
                            " The poor old body was hanged "out of hand," and all her
                            possessions were huddled into the sea with her, but the hungry tempest
                            would not be quieted by the hideous sacrifice.
                                Comp. Gatford's Public Good, 12, where is a loose statement of
                                    same fact.
                             There were sporadic witch excitements sooner or later in nearly
                            every colony; miniature reflections of what was passing at the time in
                                Europe.
                                Comp., e.g., Ridgely's Annals of Annapolis, 58 ff. and
                                others.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        XI.
                        The ancient belief in witchcraft, though never extinct, passed through a
                            sort of renascence in the religious excitements of the sixteenth
                                century.
                                Witchcraft, Note 17.
                             As early as 1548 newborn Protestant zeal against superstition
                            began to attack all kinds of sorcery, and there was also opposition to
                            various popular superstitions in Catholic countries.
                                Cranmer's Articles of Visitation, 2. Edw. VI, Sparrow's Coll.,
                                    31.
                             The charms by which women sought to mitigate the sorrows of
                            childbearing were special subjects of ecclesiastical inquisition in
                            England in the first year of Elizabeth's reign. The tendency of this was
                            to make a  witch of every midwife and wise
                            woman who encouraged her patients by little quackeries.
                                But compare Reprouacion de las Superstitiones, by P. Liruelo, of
                                    Salamanca, 1547, and others.
                             The trial of a supposed witch by weighing her wizened form in
                            the balances against the huge church Bible bound in heavy boards with
                            metal clasps, or by tying her thumbs and her toes together crosswise to
                            see whether she would float when put into the water, attracted a
                            concourse of people and spread abroad the horrible superstition.
                                Art. Visitation, I Eliz., Sparrow's Coll., 180.
                             "Swimming witches" became a favorite amusement of the brutal
                                populace.
                                Note 18.
                             "Our Countrey people," says an English writer in 1718, "are
                            still as fond of it as they are of Baiting a Bear or a Bull.
                                Fr. Hutchinson, Hist. Essay on Witchcr., 137, 138.
                            " The notoriety and outcry served for a sort of devil's
                            advertisement; the afflicted were everywhere set to brooding on the
                            probability that some malicious neighbor or some doted old woman of
                            uncanny aspect had laid them under a spell.
                                Casaubon's Enthusiasme, 1656, p. 100.
                             The attempt to put down witchery by the infliction of the death
                            penalty served to breed new alarms, new accusations, and fresh
                                executions.
                                Familiar Letters, 398.
                             In the time of the civil war and the Commonwealth there were
                            infectious witch panics in England. In Essex and Sussex alone two
                            hundred persons were prosecuted for witchcraft, and half of them were
                            executed. Medical skill was dangerous in a time of suspicion. Meric
                            Casaubon saw a clever woman doctor driven from a town because she had
                            benefited a lunatic patient. It was evident to the populace that nothing
                            less than sorcery could relieve a demoniac. In 1646 James Howell wrote:
                            "There have been  more witches Arraign'd
                            and Executed heer lately than ever were in this Island since the
                                Creation.
                                Commentaire sur Beccaria, ix.
                            " "All the tribunals of Christian Europe resounded with such
                            condemnations," says Voltaire of this period. The poor Turks had never a
                            witch or demoniac among them, a proof positive that their religion was
                            false; the devil sparing his own. It was estimated, on the other hand,
                            that the judges of Christian lands had sent more than a hundred thousand
                            people to death on the gallows or at the stake for the crime of
                            witchcraft.
                    
                    
                        XII.
                        The classic dignity of Milton's evil angels, when marshaled "in
                            battailous aspect," is the work of the poet.
                                Descended from hobgoblins.
                             The sprites of popular fancy in that age were groveling and
                            grotesque. They made silly contracts with doting crones whom they
                            persuaded to write their names with their own blood in a book, and that
                            without any valuable consideration; they held burlesque religious
                            exercises and dug up dead men's bones to enchant with. They were of the
                            sort that masqueraded as dogs and cats, and hares and toads. They
                            haunted houses for the mere fun of terrifying the inmates; they took
                            possession of hysterical people and talked nonsense from their lips, and
                            they tangled the manes of horses in the night for mere wanton deviltry.
                            The antipathies of these demons were equally incomprehensible. They
                            could be frightened away by  hanging up
                            lucky stones with natural holes in them, or discarded horseshoes, or
                            better still by burying "witch-jugs" full of horseshoe nails under a
                            threshold, or by the hanging up of fresh bays about a house.
                                Notes and Queries, vol. vi, No. 151, p. 271.
                             They were sometimes known to the witches who were their
                            familiars by such names as Pluck, Vinegar Tom, Catch, Hard-name,
                            Jarmara, Elemauzer, Pyewacket, Peckin-the-Crown, and Smack.
                                Mather's Providences, chap. v.
                             Sprites like these are not primarily the offspring of
                            theological speculation; they resemble the gnomes, trolls, and brownies,
                            the Hudekins, Robin Goodfellows, and Friar Rushs of the tales and
                                ballads.
                                Retrospective Review, v, 122.
                             They have floated down from ancient heathen times on the stream
                            of nursery and fireside folk-lore.
                                Hutch., Hist. Essay on Witchcraft, 1718, p. 103.
                             But they had ceased to be regarded with awed amusement as were
                            their progenitors the gnomes and fairies.
                                See Wright's Literature and Superstition of England, vol. ii,
                                    essay x; and Comp. Douce's Shakespeare, i, 382394.
                             They had come to be denounced from pulpits and accused of
                            grewsome and horrible acts suited to their new position as Christian
                                devils.
                                Realism of devils.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        XIII.
                        This grotesque superstition could not be disentangled from the creed of
                            the time.
                                See A Tryal of Witches, 1664, before Sir Matthew Hale, especially
                                    Sir T. Browne's testimony, p. 41, and Hale's Charge, 55, 56.
                             Jurists like the astute Coke and the conscientious Sir Matthew
                            Hale, and even such philosophers as Lord Bacon and Sir Thomas Browne,
                            were helpless to rid themselves of it. It was part of what we may call
                            the fixed intellect of the age. The people who first saw on the stage
                            Shakespeare's "secret, black,  and midnight
                            hags" were no doubt touched with a ghastlier horror than the sthetic
                            shudder this apparition affords in later times, for the diabolical dance
                            of witches concocting infernal spells had then the force of daring
                            realism. "That there are evill spirits," says ishop Flail, "is no lesse
                            certaine then that there are men.
                                Note 19.
                            That evill spirits have given certaine proofes of their presence
                            with men, both in visible apparitions and in the possessions of places
                            and bodies, is no lesse manifest then that we have soules.
                                Hall's Cases of Conscience, Dec. 3, Case I.
                            " But God had "bound up the evill Angels in chaines of
                                darknesse.
                                Illustrious Providences, ed 1856, p. 120.
                            " This was to restrain them from frightening God's "weake
                            creatures" by "those frequent and horrible appearances which they would
                            otherwise make.
                                See Upham in many places.
                            " It was God's pleasure sometimes to "loosen or lengthen" the
                            chains and permit these diabolonians "to exhibit themselves under some
                            assumed shapes unto men," which gives the eminent casuist occasion to
                            discuss "what our deportment should be" when a devil whose chain has
                            been temporarily slackened "exhibits" himself to us. This very
                            materialistic conception of the devils in chains like mastiffs is not
                            peculiar to Hall. It was a trait of thought at the time. It occurs more
                            than once in Increase Mather, as "the Lord doth sometimes lengthen the
                            chain which the infernal lions are bound fast in," and so on. In the
                            trials at Salem we repeatedly come upon the expression in a grossly
                            literal sense.
                    
                    
                    
                        XIV.
                        The notion of house-haunting demonsa superstition the most nearly a
                            survival from the days of the elves and browniescrossed the sea with the
                            early emigrants.
                                Haunted houses.
                             One such spirit in Newbury in New Hampshire, in 1679, threw
                            sticks and stones on the roof of the house, lifted up the bedstead from
                            the floor, threw the bedstaff out the window, threw a cat at the
                            mistress of the house and beat the goodman over the head with a broom,
                            made the pole on which the kettles were hung to dance up and down in the
                            chimney, tossed a potlid into the fire, set a chair in the middle of the
                            table when dinner was served, seasoned the victuals with ashes, filled a
                            pair of shoes with hot ashes, ran away with an inkhorn, threw a ladder
                            against a door, and put an awl into the bed.
                                Mather's Providence, 101, 110, ed. 1856.
                             It played a hundred other lively pranks until "it pleased God to
                            shorten the chain of this wicked demon." While the chain was shortening
                            the disheartened demon was heard to cry six times over, "Alas ! me knock
                            no more !" In Hartford, in 1683, there was a gentle devil with a taste
                            for flinging corncobs through the windows and down the chimney. Stones
                            and sticks were sometimes thrown, but softly so as to do no serious
                            harm. When the occupant of the haunted house returned to its owner a
                            chest of clothes unjustly detained, no more corncobs were thrown. In
                            Portsmouth it rained stones outdoors and in at the house of George
                            Walton, and, what is curi  ous, some of
                            these stones were hot.
                                Comp. burning of Bingen by devils, Inc. Mather's Cases of
                                    Conscience, 18, and other stories, ibid., passim.
                                
                             Glass windows were shattered, and a stirrup iron traveled off on
                            its own motion without horse or rider and was never again seen.
                                Note 20.
                             Sometimes a hollow whistling sound was heard. This whistling
                            devil amused himself like a true brownie by hanging the haycocks up in
                            the trees and decorating the kitchen "all up and down" with wisps of
                            hay. Sometimes the chains were sufficiently lengthened for a New England
                            demon to become visible. One appeared as a "black-a-moor child," another
                            as a woman clad in green safeguard, short blue cloak, and white cap.
                            Once the black cat, so dear to tradition, appeared and was shot at;
                            again the head of a man was seen swimming through the water, followed a
                            little way off by the tail of a white cat. These American devils with
                            their undiabolical sense of humor have at least a family likeness to the
                            mischievous elves, pucks, brownies, and other "tricksy sprites" with
                            which the English imagination peopled lonesome glens and the dark
                            corners of their houses in primitive times. Whether the later demons
                            were creatures of excited fancy or of imposture, or both, they were cast
                            in molds supplied by ancient tradition.
                    
                    
                        XV.
                        The phenomena known in later times as hysteria, and as mesmerism and
                            hypnotism, were not yet recognized to be due to natural causes.
                                Demoniacal possession.
                             The infinitely delicate shadings by which mental sanity  passes without any line of demarcation
                            into madness could not then be imagined.
                                Inc. Mather, Cases of Conscience concerning Witchcraft, 31.
                             A belief in demoniacal possession was almost unavoidable. That
                            men and women might be "obsessed with cacodemons," in the pedantic
                            phrase of the time, had the sanction of the ages, of religion, and of
                            science itself. Only the most hardy intellects ventured to question an
                            opinion so well supported.
                        In the Massachusetts town of Groton, in 1671, occurred a case of
                            well-defined hysteria. The village minister naturally concluded that the
                            violent contortions and "ravings" of the patient, Elizabeth Knap,
                            "represented a dark resemblance to hellish torments." When in one of her
                            fits she cried out, "What cheer, old man?" to whom could she be speaking
                            if not to the devil? Like many other hysterical sufferers, she was
                            susceptible to hypnotic suggestion, and in answer to leading questions
                            she was able to remember having made the compact with Satan always
                            presupposed in such cases.
                                S. A. Green's Groton in Witchcraft Times.
                             This in saner moments she retracted, as she did also accusations
                            of witchcraft made against others in reply to probing inquiries. She
                            once described to the shuddering bystanders a witch visible to her at
                            that moment, having a dog's body and a woman's head, running through the
                            room and climbing up the chimney. Good Parson Willard and others present
                            found all this so exciting that they, though unable to see the
                            apparition, could detect the imprint of a dog's foot in the clay daubing
                            of the chimney.
                    
                    
                    
                        XVI.
                        Worst element of all in this delusion was the mistaken zeal of the
                                clergy.
                                Agency of religious fervor.
                             Ministers of differing creeds agreed in believing that the
                            palpable evidences of spiritual existence afforded by witchcraft might
                            serve to vanquish the ever-present skepticism regarding the
                                supernatural.
                                Glanvill's Sadducisismus Triumphatus, and I. Mather's
                                    Providences, passim. Comp. Sprengel's
                                    Geschichte der Arzneikunde, edition 1803, iv, 341, note 4.
                             Squalid tales gathered at witch trials, many of them foul and
                            revolting as well as unbelievable, were disseminated as religious
                            reading, in hope that they might prove a means of grace by revulsion. If
                            any man had the courage to question the supernatural character of these
                            disgusting apparitions, he found himself gazetted in the authoritative
                            writings of eminent divines as a Sadducee, a patron of witches, and a
                            witch advocate; if he took a neutral position for safety, averring the
                            existence of witchcraft but denying the possibility of proving it in
                            particular cases, he was dubbed a "nullibist." This in America as well
                            as in England. A new case of witchcraft did not excite pity, but
                            something like exultation; the Sadducees were again confounded. The
                            Puritan ram's horn of Increase Mather answered across the seas to the
                            bugle of Glanvill, chaplain in ordinary to Charles II, and late in the
                            century the good Richard Baxter himself re-echoed Cotton Mather's shout
                            of victory amid the horrors of the judicial massacre at Salem. Reports
                            of continental witch trials were translated for the edification of
                            Englishmen. By this array of frightful diabolism it was  hoped that the swelling tide of gross
                            immorality might be checked and religion promoted, for the appeal of
                            religion in that day was to fear rather than to aspiration; the peril of
                            trying to kindle altar fires with embers from hell was not
                                understood.
                                The Salem Witchcraft.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        XVII.
                        Salem village, an outlying suburb, two or three miles from Salem proper,
                            was almost a frontier town in 1692. Men still wore buckskin breeches and
                            hats with a brim narrow in front and long behind. Wolves, bears, and
                            catamounts were trapped. Some of the settlers had participated in the
                            desperate battle at the Narragansetts' town sixteen years before. The
                            sword and the rapier were still worn at the side, the fowling piece six
                            and seven feet in length was in use. Men had been killed by the Indians
                            in the bounds of Salem within three years. Education was generally
                            neglected; even men of substance were sometimes unable to write. The old
                            patriarchs who had made the settlement had just died off; the community
                            had lost its steadfast guides. New clergymen had come in and new
                            magistrates, not with the education of England, but with the scantier
                            training of New Englanda training in which the felling axe was more
                            important than the Latin grammar. The new clergy, men of the second and
                            third generations, were, with a few exceptions, profoundly impressed
                            with the necessity of believing  anything
                            ghostly or horrible; the supernatural was the basis of their piety.
                            Increase Mather, the bishop by brevet of New England, had published
                            books on the ominous eclipses of 1680 and 1682, and another in 1686 on
                            Illustrious Providences, which was a storehouse of those dragons' teeth
                            that bore such ample fruit in 1692. His abler but less judicious son,
                            Cotton, had issued a book on "Memorable Providences relating to
                            witchcraft and Possessions." It had come to a second edition in the very
                            year before the horrors of Salem.
                        The village of Salem had the elements needed for a witchcraft maniaa
                            quarrel between minister and people; a circle of young girls from eleven
                            to twenty, including some who worked as helps, who met at the minister's
                            house and practiced together folk-sorcery and that kind of divining that
                            has been the amusement of such for ages. These girls soon began to
                            manifest symptoms of hysteria and hypnotism; one or two married women
                            also had "fits" in sympathy with them. A doctor called to attend them
                            decided that they were afflicted by "an evil hand." There was some
                            heartless and heedless imposture, no doubt, in what followed, but there
                            was also much of self-deception.
                        The glimpses of the infernal world that we get in Salem are highly
                            incredible. The witches say prayers to a tall black man with a
                            high-crowned hatalways with a high-crowned hat. They ride on sticks and
                            poles, sometimes they are on brooms,  and
                            sometimes three are on one pole. One relates that a pole carrying two
                            broke, but, by holding fast to the one in front of her, the witch got
                            safe to her destination. The witches fondle yellow birds, suckling them
                            between their fingers, and one day a girl cries out in meeting that a
                            yellow bird sits on the minister's hat as it hangs on a pin on the
                            pulpit. The witch usually sits on the great cross-beam of the
                            meetinghouse, fondling the yellow bird. One man was seen to nurse two
                            black pigs at his breasts. Sometimes a hog, sometimes a black dog,
                            appears and says, "Serve me." Then the dog or pig "looks like a man,"
                            and this man has a yellow bird. Cats naturally abound, white cats and
                            red cats and cats without color. Once a man struck with a rapier at a
                            place designated by one of the girls, and she declared the cat dead and
                            the floor to be all covered with blood. But no one else saw it. This is
                            probably hypnotism, hardly imposture. A great mass of such inconsequent
                            and paltry foolery was believed, not alone by owl-blasted children, but
                            by Stoughton and the other judges, and by pious Samuel Sewall himself,
                            more's the pity! Where is the motive? What prompted the most eminent
                            Christians and leading citizens to prefer so base a lifecompanions to
                            cats and dogs and devils? Why did this torture of innocent children,
                            this mischief-working witchcraft with endless perdition at the tail of
                            it, give pleasure to rational creatures? The court never once thought to
                            ask.
                        
                        The trials scenes were perdition. The "afflicted children" screamed, went
                            into spasms, shouted, charged the prisoners with torturing them, and
                            their apparent torments were frightful. They laid to the charge of the
                            accused unheard-of deviltries, such as the killing of wives long dead,
                            attempting to choke aged grandparents, and what not besides. Husbands in
                            some instances turned against wives, in others they adhered to them,
                            were accused themselves, and died with them.
                        The trials were accompanied by great cruelties. Officers of the law were
                            allowed to plunder the estates of the accused of all movable property.
                            The prisoners had to pay their jail expenses, and many families were
                            utterly impoverished. Prisoners were cast into the dungeon and were
                            "fettered." Goodman Hutchinson complained of certain prisoners for
                            tormenting his wife; additional fetters were put on them, after which
                            Mrs. Hutchinson was "tolerable well." Some were tortured to make them
                            confess; lads were laid neck and heels until the blood gushed from their
                            noses. These were accredited practices at the time. Several died in
                            prison.
                        The very skill of the accused was against them. One very neat woman
                            walked miles over dirty roads without showing any mud. "I scorn to be
                            drabbled," she said, and she was hanged for her cleanliness. George
                            Burroughs, the minister, was a strong man, much addicted to gymnastics.
                            He carried barrels of cider by inserting his fingers into  the bunghole, and held a seven-foot gun at
                            arm's length. He was the devil's man, away with him to the gallows! The
                            first people in the colony became involved. Twenty in all were executed,
                            four or five at a time. Their bodies were ignominiously thrust into
                            holes at the place where they were executed and were scantly covered.
                        There were brave men and women among them. Giles Corey, an eccentric old
                            man, had at first signed an affidavit of uncertainty about his wife, a
                            woman of piety, and, strange to say, an entire unbeliever in witchcraft.
                            Two of his sons-in-law turned against her, two were for her. But when
                            old Giles was accused he stiffened his neck. He would save his property,
                            which was considerable and might be compromised; he would will it all to
                            his two faithful sons-in-law. He would prove his steadfastness. He made
                            a will, perfect in every part, giving his property to the sons-in-law,
                            and then totally refused to plead and was slowly pressed to death. The
                            constancy of the old man did much to overthrow the partisans of
                            witchcraft. Joseph Putnam, a young man of twenty-two, declared his
                            detestation of the doctrine. He kept some one of his horses bridled and
                            saddled for six months. He armed all his family, and it was understood
                            that he must be taken, if taken at all, pistol in hand. When the mania
                            was at its height he refused to have his child baptized in the village,
                            but carried it to Salem.
                        
                        The excitement had risen with every arrest.
                                Note 21.
                             More than fifty badgered souls had confessed that they were
                            witches. Some had fled the country. But the wide extent of the
                            accusations produced a change in the minds of the people. They knew not
                            who would be struck at next. The governor, at length, refused to call
                            the special court together, and after a tedious confinement a hundred
                            and fifty were released by proclamation. The population of Salem had
                            decreased, its business had suffered, and perhaps it never recovered its
                            prosperity. Slowly the people got over the delusion and came to realize
                            the incalculable and irretrievable harm that had been wrought. Judge
                            Sewall, at a general fast, handed up to the minister to be read a humble
                            confession, and stood while it was read. He annually kept a private day
                            of humiliation. Honor to his memory! The twelve jurymen also signed an
                            affecting paper asking to be forgiven. Cotton Mather, who had been very
                            conspicuous and had published a book about it, never acknowledged
                            himself wrong in this or any other matter. From the time it became
                            unpopular he speaks of the witchcraft trials in a far-away manner, as if
                            they were wholly the work of some one else. He was never forgiven, and
                            probably never ought to have been.
                        The revulsion was complete. No witches were tried or hanged or "swimmed"
                            in America after the Salem trials. In half a lifetime more the ardor of
                            the English people visibly abated, and few witches were thereafter
                            arrested in England.
                    
                    
                    
                        ELUCIDATIONS.
                        In 1638 there was published anonymously the voyage of Domingo Gonzales to
                            the moon, in which clever bit Godwin, Bishop of Hereford, anticipated
                            some of the traits of Bergerac's A Voyage to the Moon, of Robinson
                            Crusoe, of Gulliver's Travels, of Peter Wilkins and his Flying Wife, and
                            even of Mr. Stockton's Negative Gravity, to say nothing of Hans Pfaal,
                            in which Poe imitated the story with purpose aforethoughtand I know not
                            how many tales besides.
                                Note 1, page 4.
                             But what interests us most is that under cover of a fantastic
                            story, said to have been written about 1603, the bishop declares himself
                            on the side of Copernicus and Galileo, and suggests the doctrine of
                            gravity propounded by Newton at a later period.
                                Note 2, page 4.
                             On time of writing Antony Wood, Ath. Oxon., i, 582, second
                            edition, Hallam, part iii, chapter vii, Wilkins, Bishop of Chester, an
                            able mathematician, published anonymously in 1640 two treatises, the
                            first to prove that "the moon may be a world," the second arguing that
                            the earth is a planet.
                                Note 3, page 4.
                             They are reprinted in his mathematical works. See a character of
                            Wilkins in the life of Seth, Bishop of Salisbury, 27. As late as 1660
                            Peacham's Compleat Gentleman gives an account of the ancient system of
                            Ptolemy, and does not think it worth while to inform the polite reader
                            that any other notion of the universe had ever been suggested.
                        George Sandys, who died in 1643, and who was the poet secretary to the
                            Virginia colony, wrote in his old age of the firmament
                        
                            With such undiscerned swiftness hurl'd
                            About the steadfast center of the world,
                            Against whose rapid course the restless sun
                            And wand'ring flames in varied motions run.
                            Which heat, light, life infuse, time, night and day
                            Distinguish, in our human bodies sway, etc.
                        
                        In 1666 Samuel Danforth published, in Cambridge, Mass., a book entitled
                            An Astronomical Description of the Late Comet or Blazing Star. It was
                            reprinted in London. He maintained that its orbit was elliptical, and
                            that its center of motion was not the eartha long stride toward
                            Copernicus. He proved that it was a celestial luminary by its size, its
                            parallax, its duration, its visibility in many countries, etc., and
                            concludes that it is a "planetick or erratick body." It was observed
                            without instruments. Alexander  Nowell, a
                            Harvard graduate of the previous year, published an almanac in which he
                            argues in opposition to the old notion that planets have no light of
                            their own, and in 1667 he issued a little booklet which I have not seen,
                            Josselyn's Voyages to New England, 47-52, if indeed Josselyn has not
                            confused the almanac with an imaginary booklet.
                                Note 4, page 5.
                             In 1674 a thesis for the master's degree at Harvard affirmed the
                            old opinion that the starry heavens were of fire, but in 1688 it was
                            maintained that the material of the celestial and terrestrial bodies
                            were the same, which may have been as far in the direction of the new
                            astronomy as it was safe to go at that time. Young's Subjects for
                            Master's Degree, 15. On the notion of the heavenly bodies as free from
                            gravitation, compare Hakewill's Apologie, 1630: "They are not subject to
                            the qualities of heat and cold, or drought and moisture, nor yet to
                            weight and lightnesse which arise from those qualities," p. 73. "Light
                            bodies naturally moove vpward and heavy downwarde, that which is neither
                            light nor heavy is rather disposed to a circular motion," etc., p. 86.
                            See a passage on pp. 85 and 86 on the various hypotheses of celestial
                            motion. In the entire discussion this English divine, learned in the
                            lore of the day, does not think it worth while to mention Copernicus or
                            Tycho, or either of his own great contemporaries, Kepler or Galileo. The
                            Copernican theory was a stone rejected of the builders.
                        The calculation is based on the "decumbiture or the time when sickness
                            envaded or ceased [seized] on Allice Wilkins," which was January 11,
                            1656, at 6 P. M. This is the only American case of which I know any
                            record. "That ye pty is really sick is evident in yt the lord of ye
                            ascendant is not in essential dignity, but in his detriment & in
                            ye six house and is in configuration with bad planets, thein freindly
                            aspects which signifye the disease will not bee exceeding greate. And in
                            yt there is a melancholly signe in the six house, and his lord of a
                            melancholly nature, we may judge the rise of the desease to proceed from
                            melancholly, and all so choler doth much abound and the bloud corrupted
                            with melancholly humorus the pts affected are these, viz., the heart and
                            back." So runs on our astrologer until "the stone of the kidneys" is
                            somewhat suddenly hit upon as the disease. The book is in the Winthrop
                            collection in the New York Society Library. There was formerly care
                            taken to administer medicine when the "sign came right"; laxatives were
                            to be given when the moon was in Libra or other favorable
                            constellations, and the  approach of Saturn
                            was to be guarded against because that malign planet congealed the
                            humors and remedies in the body.
                                Note 5, page 5.
                             Aristotelis Secretum Secretorum, folio xxv, 1528, in Latin black
                                letter.
                                Note 6, page 6.
                             This work, attributed to Aristotle, was often printed in Latin,
                            and was translated into English in the reign of Henry VIII.
                        Porta in liber, xiv, caput iii, under the title Vt aves tenescant,
                            explains that meat exposed to the rays of the moon became more tender,
                            this tenderness being but a form of putrefaction. So wood more rapidly
                            decays, and fruits mature, in the moonshine.
                        Archdeacon Hakewill, in his Apologie, traces the regulation of farm
                            processes by the changes of the moon to Pliny and Aristotle, and even to
                            Hesiod. Hakewill mentions the moon's supposed influence on lunatics, the
                            selenite, a stone whose light is said to wax and wane with the moon, the
                            tides, etc. "The physitian in opening a veine hath ever an eie to the
                            sign then raigning." Edition of 1630, pp. 71 and 72. "Mr. Camden
                            observes that the towne of Shrewesbery suffered twice most grievous
                            losse of life by fire within the compasse of fiftie years vpon two
                            severall eclypses of the sunne in Aries," p. 151. Hakewill thinks the
                            stars "not signes only," but "causes of immoderate cold or heat, drought
                            or moysture, lightning, thunder, raging windes, inundations,
                            earthquakes, and consequently of famine and pestilence"; but he admits
                            that "the prognostication is very vncertane." The popularity of
                            astrology in the seventeenth century is manifest from the frequent
                            references to it, and from the great number of books published on the
                            subject. The doctrine of correspondence connected astrology closely with
                            every other science. Some of the clergy opposed it. See, for example,
                            Henry King's sermon at St. Paul's, 1621, p. 25, and, earlier, Hall's
                            Satires, liber ii, satire vii. As early as 1577, indeed, the Bishop of
                            Winchester, writing to Sir W. More, says that he would gladly know the
                            opinion of astrologers relative to the "tayled star." He would "gladly
                            learn what they find in the lower heavens, for to the higher they never
                            will ascend." Losely MSS., 491. The reader may compare Hakewill's
                            Apologie, 126, 128, edition of 1630. The troublous time of the great
                            rebellion led many in England to see signs in the heavens, and brought
                            about an increase of interest in astrology. The opinions prevailing more
                            and more among the best-informed men of the time are set forth  briefly and with much moderation in the
                            Spanish work Magia Natural, o Ciencia de Filosofia Ocvlta, written by
                            Castrillo, a Jesuit, and published 1649. See especially chapter xi of
                            the first part, in which Castrillo concludes that "the movements or
                            aspects of the heavens are not certain indications of free acts and
                            contingent consequences, for these are subject to changes independently
                            of them." Folio 17, reverse.
                        These words are attributed to Danforth by Josselyn. Danforth's book on
                            the comet of 1666 I have not seen.
                                Note 7, page 6.
                             But I find the passage in Nowell's Cambridge Almanac of 1666,
                            the date of the London edition of Danforth. I have therefore credited
                            them to Nowell.
                        The discussion of the significance of comets by Kepler in his De Cometis,
                            published in 1619, is an interesting example of a great mind deriding
                            the vulgar astrological notions on the subject, and yet feeling a
                            necessity for some rational explanation of the generally believed
                            connection between comets and disasters.
                                Note 8, page 8.
                             His explanation seems to the modern mind insufficient enough,
                            and he was himself little content with it. "Haec igitur est, si vlla
                            est, naturalis connexio horum euentuum cum Cometa."It would have been
                            but a short step from this to the rejection of calamitous comets, head
                            and tail. The works that treat of the ominous character of comets were a
                            considerable element in the literature of Europe in the seventeenth
                            century. Christiani, in 1633, declares that man but a stranger in
                            history who denies that God threatens this "worn-out world" by means of
                            dreadful comets, multiplied by suns, and other portentous phenomena. The
                            passage is quoted by Votius in his Excertatio de Prognosticus Cometarum,
                            1665. Votius lays stress on the universal consent both of learned and
                            vulgar to the bad reputation of comets. Dr. John Spencer, afterward Dean
                            of Ely, protested in a learned and liberal little book that comets were
                            not ominous. In this Discourse concerning Prodigies, 1663, this
                            large-minded divine maintains that God has no use for "any such winding
                            and squintey'd Oracles" as those of the heathen. He aptly characterizes
                            the traditionary science of that day in a single phrase: "A Series of
                            many Assertours which (like persons in the dark) shut their eyes and
                            take care onely to hold fast by those which went before them." First
                            edition, p. 72. The ridicule in Boileau's Arrt Burlesque in 1671 shows
                            that the belief in such portents was waning. uvres de Boileau, edition
                            of 1821, iii, 120. The notable comet of 1680, which brought the English
                                 colonists to the point of talking
                            about reforming their morals, brought forth Pierre Bayle's work, into
                            which he built a great many other things besides comets. It also
                            awakened discussion in Mexico. Sigurenza y Gorgora, a Mexican priest,
                            published in 1681 his Manifesto filosofico contra los Cometas, in which
                            he opposed the popular dread.
                        The larva of this insect, known to us as the army worm, was regarded with
                            similar wonder in Massachusetts.
                                Note 9, page 9.
                             In the probably unique copy of a New England almanac for 1649,
                            preserved in the New York Public Library, an appearance of them in 1646
                            is set down in the chronology of marvelous events, as is also a great
                            flight of pigeons. The conventional bit of verse at the foot of one of
                            the pages is devoted to these omens, ending with the couplet: 
                                But suddenly to flight they all prepare,
                                No man knows how unless it was by pray'r.
                             There will soon be left no living eyewitness of the flights of wild
                            pigeons which were seen in the colonies and continued to occur
                            occasionally in the Ohio Valley a little later than the middle of the
                            nineteenth century. Let me here record my personal testimony that no
                            account which I have seen gives an adequate conception of the incredible
                            size of these vast flocks, which followed one another at short intervals
                            sometimes during an entire day. The apparition seems not to have been so
                            frequent in Virginia as elsewhere, and it was the more terrible in 1675
                            because it had last occurred before the great Indian massacre of 1644.
                        See the strange notions on the propagation of bees in the Insectorum of
                            Movertus, 1634, pp. 12, 13.
                                Note 10, page 10.
                             He says that rustic experience confirms the opinion of famous
                            men that bees are bred from the putrefaction of bulls, oxen, cows, and
                            calves. Kings and Ieaders among the bees are produced from the brain and
                            spinal marrow, common bees from the flesh. My copy of Movertus has on
                            the margin a note in the handwriting of the learned Vossius, who died in
                            1649. This is much nearer the truth. Vossius says that the "seed "of the
                            "king" bee, laid in single cells, is like a poppy seed, and from it the
                            little grubs are produced. Movertus, or, as his name is in English,
                            Mouffet, was the first authoritative writer on insects in England. His
                            work was translated in 1658 into English, but I have not had access to
                            an English version. Butler's Feminine Monarchie, published in 1634, the
                            same year with Movertus, shows how much the practical bee-keeper knew
                                 that was not suspected by the man of
                            science. Butler holds the principal bee to be a female, but does not
                            know that she was the only fertile female. He knows the drones to be
                            males, and he does not mention the spontaneous generation of bees from
                            bullocks, which had come down from more than two thousand years on the
                            authority of Aristotle and other classic writers. John Baptist Porta, in
                            his Magia Naturalis, 1644, page 53, quotes from Ovid a passage about
                            bodies that in wasting are changed to little animalsin parva animalia
                            vertiand this of the birth of flower-gathering bees from the waste of
                            slaughtered beeves:
                        "deputri viscere passim Florilegae nascuntur apes."
                        This passage suggests the absence of any considerable power of scientific
                            observation in centuries preceding the eighteenth. A recent French
                            writer says of the seventeenth: "L'esprit d'observation et fortiori
                            d'exprimentation, qui nous semble si natural l'homme d'tude, tait peine
                            n. Quand quelque fait contredisait trop ouvertement la thorie, ils s'en
                            tiraient par une subtilit." Folet, Molire, et la Mdecine, 61.
                        The Gentleman Instructed, 1713, p. 316 "He shews us what our idoliz'd
                            Bodies are by the Infection of Lice, Worms, and Toads they produce.
                                Note 11, page 11.
                            " Movertus, Insectorum Theatrum, 1634, explains the rise of
                            differing parasites on various parts of the human body, p. 260: "Ex
                            humoribus carne adipe, sudoribusque corruptis ortum habent omnes
                            pediculi; et pro loci humorisque natura longe different." The generation
                            of such parasites he regards as an unmistakable sign of misery and
                            sometimes an inevitable scourge of God. This was the notion that
                            Nathaniel Bacon's opponents made the most of in Virginia. On vital
                            products of the putrid humors of the human body, see Levinus Lemnius De
                            Miracvlis Occvltis Natvr, liber iv, page 403 (1604). Lemnius says that
                            snakes are produced from the decay of the spinal marrow.
                        
                            Art can beget bees, hornets, beetles, wasps,
                            Out of the carcases of creatures;
                            Yea, scorpions of an herb, being rightly placed.
                            Ben Jonson's Alchemist, act ii, scene I.
                        
                        Lord Bacon's Natural History, section 696, discusses the generation of
                                insects.
                                Note 12, page 11.
                             Moths originate, he says, in woolen fabrics, especially those in
                            a moist condition. Bacon had got as far as to suppose that creatures
                            spontaneously generated sometimes 
                            reproduce their kind by procreation. Compare section 900. Dade's Almanac
                            for 1684 says that an unusual number of frogs, flies, locusts, and so
                            on, is a sign of a pestilential season. "For these creatures, being
                            ingendered of Putrefaction, shew a general disposition of the Year and
                            constitution of the Aire to Putrefaction." In one of the early volumes
                            of the Royal Society's Transactions is a proposition to produce
                            cochineal dye in England by generation of insects from putrefaction. Sir
                            Kenelm Digby, then much esteemed, says that the earth at the outset was
                            most "aptly tempered and dispos'd" and "brought forth perfect animals;
                            as it now being barrener, of its own accord, produces such as we call
                            insecta, as Mice and Frogs, and sometimes new fashion'd Animals."
                            Peripatetical Institutions, appendix 356, 357. The underlying thought in
                            science and theology was that the world was "worn out" or in decay, and
                            the general effect was a paralyzing pessimism. It was not worth while to
                            do anything notable so near the world's end, as there would be "scarcely
                            any posterity to inherit its memory." See Milton's University oration in
                            Masson, i, 230, and Hakewill's Apologie, generally with others on "great
                            sickness and malice of the times." On spontaneous generation compare
                            Browne's Vulgar Errors, 78, 107, 109, 193, and especially on p. 148 his
                            allusion to "the receipt to make Mice out of Wheat which Helmont hath
                            delivered." Increase Mather in his Illustrious Providences says that
                            demons can make insects, no seminal virtue being required. Compare also
                            Early English Text Society, v, 229, on the generation of eels. But a new
                            spirit of wholesome scientific skepticism was born in the seventeenth
                            century. The first to question the "equivocal generation" of insects, so
                            far as I know, was Aramatori, in a letter written in 1625. Tiraboschi,
                            Letteratura Italiana, xiv, 433. Meantime Dr. William Harvey, one of the
                            first scientific minds of the world, took up the subject of generation
                            and published his researches in 1651. In these his genius struck out the
                            great truth that every animal is from the egg. In regard to insects and
                            their spontaneous generation he speaks ambiguously, but the portion of
                            his work devoted to the generation of insects was destroyed or lost in
                            the civil war, and we can never know just how far he had advanced. See
                            Dr. Ent's letter in Willis's translation of Harvey's works, Sydenham
                            Society, 148, and the passages in Harvey on Generation, 170, 456. Werner
                            Rolfink, of Jena, the most learned of German anatomists, and a follower
                            of Harvey, published a textbook on chemistry in 1661 in which he
                            rejected palingenesis.
                        
                        Sprengel's Geschichte der Arzneikunde, iv, 364. About this time the
                            infant Royal Society of London was listening to papers on "the equivocal
                            generation of insects," on "the making of insects with cheese and sack,"
                            and on "the generation of insects out of dead cantharides"; but there
                            was one paper whose title implies true experimentation "of Flesh not
                            breeding Worms when secured from fly-blowings." Sprat's Royal Society,
                            198, 223. The times were ripening for a great discoverer who should, in
                            spite of Aristotle, extinguish the ancient error and clear the way for
                            modern biology. In 1686 Redi, a Franciscan monk, and also an
                            enthusiastic advocate of Harvey's doctrines, published his experiments,
                            showing that "none were generated by putrefaction as the ancients
                            believed." Even so great a naturalist as John Ray was rather slow to
                            receive so surprising a conclusion. Transactions of the Royal Society,
                            Abridgment ii, 765. But though Redi conceded in the spirit of the old
                            philosophy that the "vegetable soul of the plant" might produce the
                            anomalous little creatures found in excrescences, his general conclusion
                            is a broad one: "Venga tutta dalla Semenza reale, e vera della piante
                            degli animali stessi, i quali col mezzo dal proprio seme loro Spezia
                            conservano." Opere, iii, 15.
                        Salmon's English Physician, or the Druggist's Shop Opened, 1693: "For a
                            long time it was a received Opinion, that they [the barnacle geese] were
                            bred out of old rotten Wood by the enforming power of water: afterwards
                            that they were bred out of certain Shells, which bred upon or stuck to
                            these pieces of Timber, which by means of Sea-weed are fastened thereto
                            by the holes of the rotten Wood, as Michael Mejer writes.
                                Note 13, page 12.
                            " Salmon gives here a long list of authorities, and proceeds:
                            "Gerarde in his History of Plants, 1588, tells us what he had seen with
                            his Eyes and touched with his hands Shells in shape like those of a
                            Muscle out of which in time comes the shape and form of a Bird, which
                            when it is perfectly formed the shell opens, and the Bird comes forth,
                            hanging by the Bill; in short space after it comes to maturity and falls
                            into the Sea where it gets Feathers." But the notion had been contested,
                            and Salmon gives some statements in opposition, citing strong words from
                            the closing part of Fabius Columna's Phytobasanos, pp. 507-511. For
                            another convinced eyewitness see Harrison in Holinshed, i, 67, 374,
                            edition of 1807. Compare Bury wills, Camden Society, 243, and Sir R.
                            Murray in Abridgment of Philosophical Transactions, iii, 853, and Dr. T.
                            Robinson, the same, number 172, p. 1036. For a  modern treatment of the question, Muller's Science of
                            Language, ii, lecture xiii. Lovell's History of Animals, 1661, cites
                            Gesner on this subject, and Douce's Shakespeare, i, 24, refers to Gaspar
                            Schot's Physica Curiosa. The evolution of the barnacle into a goose was
                            not the only absurdity of the sort credited. Lovell's History of Animals
                            and Minerals, 1661, says under "bistard," or bustard: "Some report that
                            they generate by the month by eructation of sperme." On the barnacle
                            compare Dr. Andrew D. White's Warfare of Science and Theology, 36, where
                            the Strasburg edition of Mandeville of 1484 is mentioned as having
                            pictured illustrations both of birds and of beasts produced in the fruit
                            of trees. Bishop Hall proposes for the arms of an upstart boaster of an
                            ancestry traceable to the Conqueror
                        
                            The Scottish barnacle (if I might choose)
                            That of a worme doth waxe a winged goose.
                        
                        Liber iv, Satire ii.
                        In Porta's Magia Naturalis, liber ii, caput iii, is an account of birds
                            produced from the putrefying fruits of trees, and a section entitled
                            Aves lignoruin putrefactione. In this is given, after Gesner, all the
                            details of the spontaneous production of worms in wood that presently
                            have a head, feet, wings, and tail feathers, and grow to the bigness of
                            geese and fly away. Garden sage in decay will also produce birds. One
                            finds in the Manuscript Commission, Eleventh Report, part iii, 27, that
                            Colonel Solomon Richard had observed the barnacle geese to arrive in
                            Ireland on the 21st of August for twenty years with their young, and
                            supposed them to have bred in the isles of Scotland. Richard lived in
                            the later seventeenth century.
                        The first appearance in English dress of what we may call the
                            Scandinavian myth of the swallow is, I believe, in Richard Carew's
                            Survey of Cornwall, 1602, folio 25, reverse.
                                Note 14, 13.
                             "Olaus Magnus," says Carew, "maketh a farre stranger report. For
                            he saith that in the North parts of the world as Summer weareth out they
                            clap mouth to mouth, wing to wing, legge in legge, and so after a sweete
                            singing fall down into certaine great lakes or pooles amongst the canes
                            from whence the next spring they receive a new resurrection. The
                            fishermen in winter doe sometimes light on these swallows congealed in
                            clods of a Slymie substance," etc. Carew also mentions confirmatory
                            accounts received from a Venetian ambassador employed in Poland, and
                            from travelers. In an epitome of Olaus, published in 1562, the  swallows are seen in the fishermen's net.
                            Burton's Anatomy of Melancholy, ii, 2, 3, cites both Olaus and Carew,
                            but Burton is staggered by the statement of Peter Martyr that swallows
                            and Spanish kites were flying in Egypt in December and January. An early
                            paper before the Royal Society is entitled "Relation of swallows living
                            after they have been frozen under the water." Sprat, 199. Samuel
                            Johnson, whose chief merit was that he could translate a thing into
                            Latin-English, says "the swallows conglobulate themselves," and so fall
                            down. White, of Selbourne, struggled with the question of the
                            hibernation of swallows; unable to verify the Scandinavian notion of
                            torpor in the mud at the bottom of rivers and pools, he finally accepts
                            in part the older English belief. He says that "many of the swallow kind
                            do not depart from this island, but lay themselves up in holes and
                            caverns, and do, insect-like and bat-like, come forth at mild times, and
                            then retire again into their latebrae or lurking places." The letter
                            from which this was taken was written in 1772. I am indebted to Mrs.
                            Ripley Hitchcock for calling my attention to White's discussion of the
                            question, and for this list of references to Mr. Burrough's edition: i,
                            35, 49, 81, 91, 149, 156, 175; ii, 1, 41, 83, 140, 147, 158, 164. Kalm
                            found the Scandinavian theory prevalent among the descendants of the old
                            Swedish colony on the Delaware. The Dutch at Albany held the other
                            theory of repose in holes in the rocks, while the Canadians and English
                            settlers had somehow come to believe in migration. Kalm's Travels, ii,
                            146. But the theory of torpidity was held by the Philadelphia naturalist
                            Barton, in the latter part of the eighteenth century. Ord's Life of
                            Wilson, 191. According to William Bartram, "very celebrated men" were
                            able to believe in it in 1792, and I have somewhere seen a paper,
                            published in Philadelphia as late as 1800, combating the very tough
                            delusion that swallows hibernated in the water. In the American
                            Philosophical Transactions, vi, p. 59 (1801), is a story thirty years
                            old told by Colonel Antes of a swallow taken out of the slime in
                            February. Salmon, whose English Physician, or the Druggist's Shop
                            Opened, is dated 1693, does not mention either of the theories of
                            hibernation so much discussed earlier and later. He treats the swallow,
                            the throstle, and the fieldfare as migratory, on the authority of
                            Aldrovandus and Peter Martyr. Dante held to migration: "Come le augei
                            the vernan lungo il Nilo." Purgatory, xxiv, line 63. It probably holds
                            good of the Latin races that they knew the facts from their residence on
                            the Mediterranean.
                        
                        Charles Morton was perhaps the most accomplished scholar that came to New
                            England in the colonial period.
                                Note 15, page 13.
                             He arrived in 1686, and was appointed vice-president of Harvard
                            College, with the expectation of being made president.
                                Note 16, page 18.
                             He read lectures on philosophy at his home in Charlestown which
                            attracted so many from the college that he found it wise to desist.
                                Note 17, page 20.
                             He died in 1698.
                                Note 18, page 21.
                             See an account of him, 2 Massachusetts Historical Collection, i,
                            158-162, and Quincy's History of Harvard College, i, Passim.
                        
                        Richard, in his Dissertation sur la Possession des corps par les dmons,
                            Amiens, 1746, attributes to the Anabaptists the opinion that the word
                            angel is only the name of an office, and that scriptural angels are
                            subjective apparitions, or rather "les bonne ou les mauvaises penses."
                            Dufresnoy's Recueil de Dissertations sur les Apparitions, tome ii, part
                            i, page 196. No such opinion, I think, existed among the New England
                            Puritans; but good angels were not so conspicuous in the theology of the
                            colonies generally as were bad demons. Cotton Mather had great hopes of
                            what good angels might do for him, but that was wholly personal, and
                            born of an imagination that could not be contained within limits.
                            Wendell's Life of Mather.
                        See the remarks of Sprengel on the increase of demonism after the
                            Reformation, Geschichte der Arzneikunde, iii, 273, 274. Luther inherited
                            the traditions of the humble class from which he sprang, and set the
                            first Protestant example of extreme faith in witchcraft, berating the
                            medical men who traced diseases to natural causes, most of which he
                            himself attributed to the devil. He advised that an afflicted child
                            should be cast into the river Mulde, and complained afterward that he
                            was not obeyed. After the Reformation melancholy and hysterical women
                            could no longer relieve their morbid sense of culpability by a
                            meritorious pilgrimage. Perhaps this sort of faith cure was the greatest
                            benefit of the old religion lost by the Lutheran revolution. Puritanism
                            sometimes drove such brain-sick creatures to stark madness.
                        The entirely unlawful ordeal by water was retained in Protestant England
                            after that which gave it virtue, the prayers of the priest in tying the
                            thumbs and toes together and his solemn adjuration to the water, was
                            suppressed. The wise King James, in his Demonology, felt bound to find
                            another reason for the witch's floating. According to that Solomon, the
                            water rejected her for having renounced baptism in her bargain with the
                            devil. A full account of the ancient ordeal by water as practiced on the
                            Continent  is given by a Dutch writer,
                            Scheltema, in his Geschiedenis der Heksenprocessen, pp. 69 and 70, and
                            the note in the appendix, 18 and 19, where also the mode of exorcising
                            devils is described.
                                Note 19, Page 24.
                             The English witch-finders in the seventeenth century not only
                            lacked the prayers and adjurations of the priests, but the rack having
                            been disused, they were compelled to substitute the torture of enforced
                            vigils and incessant walking to wring confessions from their
                                victims.
                                Note 20, Page 26.
                             Both Scheltema and Hutchinson express their belief that the mode
                            of holding the rope had much to do with the witch's floating. See an
                            account of "swimming" a man and a woman at Hartford, Conn., in Mather's
                            Illustrious Providences. Mather strongly disapproves of the custom,
                            which was obsolete in the south of Europe in his time. It was also
                            opposed by all the German academies. Mather cites Sprenger that it had
                            formerly been used for those accused of other crimes. "The devil is in
                            it," he says. The declaration of Chief-Justice Parker, in 1712, that if
                            any supposed witch should thereafter die in the dangerous ordeal, those
                            who put her into the water would be held guilty of willful murder, is
                            commonly said to have put an end to the rare sport of baiting old women
                            in England; but, according to Hutchinson, it appears to have been still
                            in vogue some years laten. A man was "swam for a wizard" in Suffolk,
                            England, as late as 1825. Hone's Every Day Book, i, 942, quoting London
                            Times of July 19, 1825. It is to the credit of Increase Mather that he
                            insists that witch confessions should be voluntary.
                        As late as June 14, 1711, Addison printed in The Spectator, No. 117, his
                            famous essay on witchcraft. "I believe in general," he says, "that there
                            is and has been such a thing as witchcraft, but at the same time can
                            give no credit to any particular instances of it." The politic position
                            taken by Montesquieu in his Esprit des Lois, 1747, livre xii, ch. v, was
                            not very different from Addison's; and Blackstone puts himself under
                            shelter of Addison and Montesquieu; Commentaries, book iv, chapter iv.
                            It was those who believed thus in evil spirits generally, but refused
                            the evidence in particular cases, that Glanvill calls "nullibists" or
                            no-where-ists.
                        In Browne's Vulgar Errors, 148, it is set down to be considered "whether
                            the brains of Cats be attended with such destructive malignities as
                            Dioscorides and others put upon them." See a passage on this subject in
                            Parey's works, book 21, chapter xxxiv. It is to be remembered that
                            though Par was not an  English writer, his
                            works were translated into English and his name spelled Parey.
                                Note 21, Page 34.
                            
                        
                        I have not thought it necessary to fall into what Milton calls a
                            "paroxysm of citations" on this subject. I have given authorities on
                            specific points in passing, but the witch literature of the seventeenth
                            century is oppressively vast. Some of the Continental writers are
                            referred to in Scheltma's Heksenprocessen, others in Sprengel's
                            Geschichte der Arzneikunde; there is a list of English writers in the
                            Retrospective Review, v, and the late Justin Winsor printed a pamphlet
                            bibliography of American witchcraft. Francis Hutchinson's work is the
                            best on witchcraft generally. No subject within the scope of history can
                            be more dreary to the student of original authorities, more revolting to
                            humane feelings, or more disgusting in many of its details. Upham's
                            Salem Witchcraft, with an account of Salem village, is the only work on
                            the witches in Salem on which one can depend. It has no chapters and no
                            index worthy of the name, and is utterly exasperating, but it is a full
                            account of the witchcraft ordered and made clear. Upham did not know how
                            to make a book, he did not know the subtle laws of mind, but the
                            external facts are well given. I have had recourse to nearly all the
                            other data as well, from Cotton Mather and Calef down.
                    
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER THE SECOND.
                    DIGRESSION CONCERNING MEDICAL NOTIONS AT THE PERIOD OF
                        SETTLEMENT.
                    
                        I.
                        TO the historian of medicine the early seven-teenth
                            century seems a period of brilliant discovery, for, in 1616, while
                            Virginia was yet in its birth throes, William Harvey first expounded to
                            his students the circulation of the blood, which he published to the
                            world twelve years later.
                                CHAP. II.
                             But to the student of culture history the stubborn resistance
                            offered to this capital discovery is one of the many signs of the
                            thralldom of the age to tradition.
                                The circulation of the blood.
                             So unusual was the spectacle of a man questioning the
                            conclusions of the ancients that Harvey was accounted "crack-brained,"
                            his practice declined, and a pack of "barking dogs," as he calls them,
                            were soon baying at him.
                                Harvey's Prelectiones Anatomi Universalis, 72-80, and Exercitatio
                                    de Motu Cordis, Frankfort, 1628.
                             "Would you have us believe that you know something that
                            Aristotle did not know?" demanded one adversary, Dr. Primrose.
                            "Aristotle observed everything," he adds, "and no one should dare to
                            come after him."
                                Aubrey quoted in Prefatory Memoir to the reprint of
                                Exercitatio.
                             The voice of Primrose is the voice of that age.
                                Comp. the Life by Willis in Harvey's works.
                             It is said that no man over forty years old accepted Harvey's
                            new physiology.
                                Quoted by Folet in Molire et la Mdecine, 81. Comp. Revue
                                    Scientifique, Nov., 1893, on La Circulation et ses
                                Detracteurs.
                             Half a century after Harvey's discovery the medical faculty of
                            Paris,  noted for its spotless orthodoxy,
                            solemnly petitioned the French king to prohibit the teaching of the
                            circulation, as a doctrine contrary to the authority of Aristotle.
                            Against the plated hulk of this conservatism Boileau let fly a broadside
                            of derision in the shape of a burlesque decree, in which among other
                            things the court "forbids the blood to be any longer vagabond, wandering
                            and circulating about the body, on pain of being wholly given over to
                            the faculty of Paris to be let without measure.
                                uvres de Boileau, ed. 1821, iii, 120. Earlier form of the Arrt
                                    Burlesque.
                            " Harvey "gave to anatomy its most illustrious discovery, and to
                            philosophy its first real alliance with experience," says a German
                            writer, and we like to linger over the story of the most shining
                            intellectual achievement of the century.
                                Isensee, Geschichte der Medecin, I. Theil, 255.
                             But its relation to anatomical knowledge in America in the
                            seventeenth century is small. It is probable that few of the earlier
                            doctors and chirurgeons who came to the colonies were interested in the
                            question raised by Harvey. It is certainly improbable that anything new
                            in science ever came into possession of the barbers and bloodletters and
                            bonesetters who practiced the rougher sort of surgery and physic in
                            England and the pioneer settlements of America, nor would novelties of
                            any sort influence the practice of traditional medicine by the preacher
                            of the parish or some jack-at-all-trades who served as justice of the
                            peace, medical adviser, and neighborhood wiseacre. Still less would
                            there be any advance in that "kitchen physic," as the colonists were
                            accustomed to call it, that was so 
                            liberally dispensed by midwives and knowing house mothers who revered
                            neither Galen nor Hippocrates, but followed medival traditions and
                            employed remedies that may have been older than the father of medicine
                                himself.
                                Subjects for Master's Degrees at Harvard, 17.
                             In 1660 the circulation of the blood was argued in a master's
                            thesis at Harvard, which institution seems to have been about that time
                            hospitable to new opinions in science.
                                Humorism.
                             This was thirty-two years after Harvey's treatise had
                                appeared.
                                Note 1.
                             The circulation of the blood was still a question at Harvard in
                                1699.
                                Note 2.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        II.
                        That which one age tells to another seems to men truth fundamental.
                                Aphorisms of Hippocrates. Paulus gineta, b. vii, sec. 2. Comp.
                                    especially extracts from Atius in Adams's Commentary on P.
                                    gineta,
                             From antiquity it had been told and retold with much formality
                            that the human body consisted of four elementsearth, air, fire, and
                            waterand that it contained just four humors or liquids corresponding
                            neatly in number with the four elements. These humors were bile or
                            choler, blood, melancholy or black bile, and phlegm. In the mystical
                            science of that time a mysterious relation or correspondence was
                            supposed to exist between each of the several elements and one of the
                            four humors. Anne Bradstreet, the beginner of New England poetry, sets
                            it forth in rhyme, that choler was the daughter of fire, blood of air,
                            melancholy of earth, and phlegm of water. Disease came from an excess of
                            one or another humor, or from a humor's being too cold  or too hot, or too moist or too dry.
                                Sydenham Soc., iii, 6, and old medical literature generally.
                             The four humors, offspring of the four elements, had these four
                            qualities, cold, heat, moisture, and dryness, which were something other
                            than what we mean by these terms.
                                Note 3.
                             Each of these qualities might exist in either one of four
                            degrees of intensity, not only in the humors but in the food and
                                remedies.
                                Sprengel's Geschichteder Arzneikunde, v. 251, citing
                                Sanctorius.
                             A writer in 1603 estimates the possible mixtures and
                            wrong-goings of the four humors at eighty thousand.
                                Julius Car, ii, I.
                             This afforded a system of diagnosis fairly bewildering and
                            impressive to the patient.
                                Note 4.
                             The belief that the humors wrongly mixed or tempered affected
                            the mood of a sufferer was a commonplace of the literature of the
                                period.
                                For example, Aretus of Cappadocia on Acute Diseases, ii, vii,
                                    Sydenham Soc. edition.
                             "Humor some time hath his hour with every man," says
                            Shakespeare's Portia to Brutus. Certain forms of speech that gave
                            expression to humoral theories still persist as petrifactions of extinct
                            notions. The words humor, temperament, bilious, choleric, atrabilious,
                            melancholy, phlegmatic, and others, are veritable fossils of the Galenic
                            age. The numerous simples, such as sassafras and sarsaparilla, that are
                            yet decocted to remove morbid humors and "purify the blood," are but
                            remains of Galenism, and nostrums that restore health by invigorating
                            the liver show the survival in folk-science of the old physiology that
                            gave supremacy to that organ, or of the theory of ancient medicine that
                            "the liver is made up from the roots of the veins" and that it was the
                            center of life, the desires of the soul being there seated.
                    
                    
                    
                        III.
                        The physicians of the seventeenth century were acquainted with the
                            properties of many valuable simples.
                                Common remedies.
                             They had a set of astringents and cathartics handed down from
                                antiquity.
                                Note 5.
                             Some of the latter are so drastic that nothing could have
                            justified their use but the necessity for evacuating humors which had a
                            depraved way of going wrong and sending up poisonous vapors to the
                            brain, to the injury of those imaginary "animal spirits" which played a
                            leading part in the physiology of the age.
                                Compare Molire's Malade Imaginaire, third interlude. Adams's
                                    Paulus gineta, iii, 483 and ff. Comp. Maurice Raynaud, Les
                                    Mdecins au Temps de Molire, p. 181, and Folet, 87. Hippocrates,
                                    Aphorisms, vi, 47. Paulus gineta, b. vi, sec. 40, with Adams's
                                    Commentary, ii, 320. Comp. Rhazes on Smallpox, 37.
                             The several purgative remedies were supposed to act
                            specifically, each on one or more particular humor; one thing was needed
                            for phlegm and quite another to remove the black bile that weighed on
                            the spirits of a hypochondriac.
                                Raynaud, Les Medcins au Temps de Molire, 180.
                             The favorite and perhaps the most destructive remedy of that
                            time was venesection. Hippocrates had used it with caution, thinking it
                            best in the spring time. Galen forbade bloodletting in the case of
                            persons under fourteen or over seventy years old. But in the seventeenth
                            century it was inflicted on men, women, and children for almost every
                            pathological offense. Louis XIII was bled forty-seven times in twelve
                            months. Infants of three days and men past eighty were thus depleted:
                            the "peccant" humors had to be expelled. Venesection was supposed to be
                            local in its effects and a vein was opened in the head for troubles in
                            the head. The French when depleting 
                            generally opened a vein on each side of the body supposing in their
                            ignorance of the circulation that otherwise it would require twenty-four
                            hours to restore by some process an equilibrium.
                                Comp. C. Sprengell on the Sentences of Celsus, passim. Howell's Letters, i, 2, Letter xxi.
                             The great surgeon Par drew seven pounds of blood, troy weight,
                            from a man in four days; and there was a case in England of almost as
                            severe a treatment inflicted on a man seventy-six years of age.
                                Note 6.
                             Bleeding was used by barbers and other humble
                                practitioners.
                                Pare (Par), works, lib. 10, c. xiv, and Deodati's Letter in Appx.
                                    to Hakewill. Compare Medicine in Mass., 43.
                             In the American colonies it was practiced by the half-taught
                            chirurgeon, as well as by clergymen and other medical amateurs and
                            dabblers, to whom the old almanacs pointed out the proper time of the
                            moon for letting blood according to the age of the patient.
                                Medical sects.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        IV.
                        The great medical controversies which the early seventeenth century had
                            received by way of legacy from past ages wakened few echoes in
                                America.
                                Sprengel, Geschichte der Arzneikunde, iv, 341, note. Browne's
                                    Vulgar Errors, 72.
                             The Latin countries generally held to Greek and Arabian
                            traditions, while the Germans were following the insurgent Paracelsus
                            and the chemical schooldoctors of fire, or pyrotechnics, as they called
                            themselves. But the seventeenth century was a period of approach and
                            attempted reconciliation. Pott, the English physician who was sent to
                            Virginia in its early years, was thought all the better qualified
                            because he had studied in the Low Countries, and was acquainted with
                            chemistry. He  appears to have combined
                            Galenical with the chemical methods, and there were other eclectics at
                            the time.
                                Hakewill's Apol., iii, v, pp. 244, 245.
                             Some stiff Galenists in England were suspected of using spagyric
                            methods surreptitiously.
                                J. Clayton to Royal Society.
                             If any allusion to medical sects was made in the newly planted
                            colonies, no record of it has come down to us; the people, in their
                            necessities, availed themselves eagerly of any science or promising
                            quackery or ignorant folk-physic that offered relief, reserving all
                            their polemics for theology.
                                See Force's reprint.
                             One finds remedies dating back to Galen and Hippocrates standing
                            on the family medicine shelf of nearly every plantation house of
                            Virginia; the Oriental bezoar stone of somebody in the middle ages and
                            the ancient dittany of the Greeks were prescribed by colonial
                                doctors.
                                William and Mary Qrly., ii, 170. MS. county records in Va. State
                                    Library generally.
                             But in the little medical libraries Glauber's Chemistry holds up
                            its head alongside of Galen's Art of Physic, and even the Unlearned
                            Chemist ventures to keep company with Ambrose Par's Surgery.
                                J. W. Deane's Sketch of Wigglesworth. Inventories of books
                                    generally.
                             In New England, as in Virginia, Barrough's Method of Phisicke
                            was the accepted handbook for nearly a hundred years. Wigglesworth had
                            Barrough with Harvey and Culpepper; but it is significant that several
                            Paracelsian books, such as the Basilica Chymica, were their friendly
                            shelf neighbors. One is forced to conclude from the collections of books
                            that colonial medicine at least was rather inclusive. Governor Winthrop,
                            of Connecticut, whose influence must have modified medical practice in
                            New England, appears to have belonged to the chemical  school, and to have held strongly to
                            hermetic medicine of various kinds.
                    
                    
                        V.
                        The doctrine of signatures, so often ascribed to Paracelsus and strongly
                            upheld by him, pervaded medical theory in the colonies.
                                Signaturism.
                             The notion was, indeed, as old as Hippocrates himself, and
                            probably yet more ancient, since it is found in the primitive medical
                            theory of savages.
                                Note 7.
                             But writers of the Paracelsian school of the sixteenth century
                            amplified, emphasized, intricated, and mysticized the doctrine in such a
                            way as to make it seem almost an original discovery of their own
                                time.
                                Note 8.
                             Theories were accepted in that day for poetic rather than
                            scientific reasons. Whatever thought was reached by symbolism, or
                            uttered obscurely or mystically, impressed the susceptible imagination
                            of the age. The imagination then held the place of authority that
                            rightly belongs to the judgment. The later and elaborate doctrine of
                            signatures was a part of the prevalent philosophy of correspondences. It
                            was related to the influence of the planets on plants and minerals,
                            which influence was shown by color and other qualities and had to do
                            with medical properties. It was a part also of an obscure theory of
                            sympathy and antipathy existing in inanimate thingsa doctrine suggested
                            apparently by the magnet. It belonged to the overshadowing
                            supernaturalism of the time,  and to the
                            geocentric and homocentric notions of the universe that gave value to
                            things only in their relation to man.
                                De Cutis Apertionibus, folio 62.
                             The world was a cosmic pharmacy; God had placed a signature on
                            each substance to indicate the disease it was good for.
                                Dr. Stafford's paper.
                             What was necessary was to read the label, to note the
                            indications of odor, color, form, and other marks. The resemblance was
                            often wholly external. "Like by like is to be curedthat is, similar
                            ulcers by similar forms," says Paracelsus. The porosity of the leaves of
                            St. John's-wort, and the spots which resembled perforations of the leaf,
                            left no doubt of the value of the plant in all cases of abrasion,
                            external or internal. The illusory appearance of holes in its leaves
                            showed it good for hallucinations, madness, and assaults of the devil.
                            This curious theory of medicine is to be detected in many of the
                            remedies prescribed in the colonies, and is yet more evident in the
                            popular modes of healing.
                    
                    
                        VI.
                        We may see the influence of the theory of signatures on English medicine
                            in actual transit to the colonies by examining a paper sent by Dr.
                            Stafford, of London, to Winthrop, Governor of Connecticut, the most
                            noted master of medicine in the early colonial period. In this paper are
                            remedies which must have been often prescribed in New England. Stafford
                            cured "madnesse" with St. John's-wort. "sometimes in five days."
                            Paracelsus had treated  the fibers of its
                            leaves as a signature, showing that this plant was good to drive away
                            "phantasms and specters.
                                Paracelsus, Opera, fol. 191 ff. The Book of Quinte Essence, E. E.
                                    Text Soc., p. 19.
                            " But the doctrine of "curing by the assimulate" was perhaps
                            present even in superstitions before the time of Paracelsus; the water
                            of St. John's-wort was used to drive away devils, and the herbs St.
                            John's-wort and rue were blessed after a prescribed form, wrapped in a
                            "hallowed paper," and carried about "to be smelled at" against all
                            "invasions of the devil."
                                Hall's Cases of Consc., Dec. 3, Case I, citing Thesaurum
                                    Exorcismorum.
                             The inhabitants of North Wales put sprigs of it over their doors
                            as an antidote to demons.
                                Barton's Med. and Phys. Journal, May, i, pt. ii, 60.
                             Stafford gave sweet milk with salt for "jaunders." Milk, being
                            white, cleared black humors.
                                Note 9.
                             This was "contraries cured by contraries," but Stafford used
                            both methods in one remedy; he added saffron to his milk and salt for
                            jaundice, and this was "curing by the assimulate," a yellow remedy for a
                            yellow disease.
                                Compare Adams's Paulus gineta, 207. Basilius Valentinus.
                             If a patient were torn by pains in the breast or limbs, Stafford
                            cured like by like; he bade him wear a "wild catt's skin on the place
                            grieved." But our London doctor's masterpiece, as communicated to
                            Connecticut, appears to have been his "black powder" against smallpox
                            and other eruptive diseases. It was made of toads because toads were
                            believed to be poisonous, and all poison drew poison to itself, and thus
                            cured disease, as the author of the Triumphal Chariot of Antimony had
                            long before proved. This also was one mode of curing by the assimulate.
                            But the warts on the toad were perhaps regarded as a specific divine
                            indorsement  of his value against
                                eruptions.
                                Note 10.
                             "In the month of March," says Stafford, with the usual
                            particularity of time, "take toads as many as you will alive; putt them
                            in an earthen pott, so that it may be half full; cover it with a broad
                            tyle or Iron plate; then overwhelme the pott so that the bottome may be
                            uppermost; putt charcoales round about it and over it. Sett it on fire
                            and lett it burne out and extinguish of itselfe; when it is cold take
                            out the toades; and in an Iron mortar pound them very well.
                                O. W. Holmes, Mass. Hist. Soc. Proc., 1862, pp. 379-382.
                            " By a second roasting this brown toad powder was reduced to a
                            black, innocuous animal charcoal.
                                Weapon ointment and sympathetic powder.
                             "Moderate the dose according to the strength of the partie,"
                            says Stafford gravely. A toad boiled in oil, "after the toad has fasted
                            two or three days," he recommends for king's evil. With an exactitude
                            characteristic of the medicine of the day he mixes a plaster not with
                            simple hog's lard, but with "barrow's grease." Subtlety of this sort
                            pervaded every department of thought; the little that was known of
                            science had rather dazed than clarified vision.
                    
                    
                        VII.
                        Beside the doctrine of signatures and a superstitious etiquette in the
                            preparation of remedies, there were other curious results of the
                            mystical tendency in the medicine of the timethe weapon ointment derived
                            from the Rosicrucians, for example. It was compounded of many
                            absurdities; there was pulverized bloodstone, a cure by likes,  and there was also moss taken from the
                            skull of a dead man unburied and other ghastly ingredients.
                                Note 11.
                             This precious unguent was applied, not to the wound, but to the
                            weapon or implement that had produced it.
                                Sprengel, Geschichte der Arzneikunde, iv, 345.
                             The weapon was then carefully bandaged, to protect it from the
                                air.
                                E. g., De Pulvere Sympathetica, 1650.
                             It was the wound, however, that was healed; the cures are well
                            attested, as impossible cures usually are.
                                Sprengel, as above, iv, 345, 346.
                             Experiment proved that "a more homely and familiar ointment"
                            would serve the turn just as well, and moreover, in that day of
                            emblemism, the ointment proved quite as efficacious when applied to an
                            image of the offending weapon.
                                Note 12.
                             To the Rosicrucians was attributed also a similar cure which
                            came into great notoriety in England in the middle of the seventeenth
                            century. This was the widely famous sympathetic powder made of vitriol
                            with much ceremonial precision. The powder stopped hemorrhages either
                            from disease or wounds. It was applied to the blood after it had issued
                            from the wound or to the blood-stained garment. Winthrop, of
                            Connecticut, imported the latest books on the subject of this powder,
                            which may well have come into use in a new country where surgical cases
                            were not infrequent. Before Winthrop's time, and after, German writers
                            on medicine attempted to give a scientific basis to the weapon ointment
                            and powder of sympathy by attributing their operation to magnetism, a
                            term that has covered more ignorance than any other ever invented. The
                            philosopher Kenelm Digby, a contemporary 
                            of Winthrop, made himself the protagonist of the powder in a treatise on
                            the subject.
                                Bacon's Nat. Hist., 997.
                             Lord Bacon was in some doubt about the weapon ointment, but he
                            rather inclined to believe in its cures, because a distinguished lady
                            had similarly relieved him of warts by rubbing them with a rind of pork,
                            which was then hung up, fat side to the sun, to waste vicariously away,
                            carrying his warts into non-existence with it.
                                Hall's Cases of Conscience, 232, note.
                             Roberti, the Jesuit, believed that such cures took place, but
                            ascribed them to the devil; all these cures that were wrought without
                            "contaction," including the home-made witchcraft for curing warts,
                            Bishop Hall accounted damnable sorceries.
                                Note 13.
                             Of such necromancy, this cure of warts with a rind of pork has
                            alone survived to modern times.
                                Potable gold.
                             The rag-bag of folk-medicine is filled with the cast-off clothes
                            of science.
                                Burton's Anat. of Melancholy, sec. 1, 3.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        VIII.
                        The seventeenth century lay in the penumbra of the middle ages, and the
                            long-sought potable gold of the alchemists was yet in request; it even
                            enjoyed a revival.
                                Note 14.
                             Almost everything precious and rare was accounted of medicinal
                            virtue, and it was inferred that gold as the most precious metal would
                            be the most valuable remedy if it could be taken in liquid form. The
                            known use-fulness of mercurial remedies was attributed to the fact that
                            mercury was the densest of liquids. Gold was the densest metal then
                            known, and it  was easily decided, by the
                            process of using fancy to give fluidity to logic, that if it could be
                            reduced to drinkable consistency it would be the most valuable of
                                medicaments.
                                Note 15.
                             There was a yet more convincing way of proving its medicinal
                            value by the process of presumption, so much used by hermetic
                                philosophers.
                                Glauber, De Auro Potabile, 3, and Georgius Phaedro, Vom Stein der
                                    Weisen, 1624, 394-397.
                             The sun and gold were related in the mystical thought of the
                            time; the sun as chief luminary was "lord in the property" of gold.
                            "There is not found among things above or things beneath," says Glauber,
                            "a greater harmony and friendship than that between the sun, gold, man,
                            and wine.
                                Note 16.
                            " The easy logic of the time found in this transcendental fancy a
                            "therefore" potent enough to make gold a universal remedy for human
                            maladies, where the recovery was not "contrary to the unfathomable
                            counsel of God.
                                Note 17.
                            " Gold was even administered in its solid state; Arabic doctors
                            had prescribed leaf gold, and it held place in several compounds.
                                Lemnius, De Miraculis Occvlt. Nat., 1604, pp. 309, 310.
                             Fragments and leaves of gold were seethed with meats, and the
                            broth used to clear the heart and raise the strength and vital spirits
                            of invalids beyond all conception. But the hermetic writers thought the
                            use of leaf gold a coarse application of a metal which they were fond of
                            styling "the lower Sun." Preparations professing to be potable gold and
                            tincture of gold were in much request and frequently administered in the
                            seventeenth century. On the other hand, their efficacy was warmly
                            debated. The alchemists held that three drops at the highest taken in
                            wine or  beer would cure the most serious
                                illness.
                                Geber, quoted in De Via Universali.
                             Of its nature it is more than enough for us to know that it was
                            triplex, being vegetable, animal, and mineral; it was one thing chosen
                            out of all others, of a livid color, metallic, limpid and fluid, hot and
                            moist, watery and swarthy, a living oil and a living tincture, a mineral
                            stone and a water of life of wonderful efficacy.
                                CHAP. II.Green's Medicine in Massachusetts,
                                    quoting Cotton Mather.
                             So spake the admiring alchemist.
                        John Winthrop the younger, of whom we have spoken, was a man of an eager
                            and curious mind, fond of peering into the occult.
                                CHAP. II.Note 18.
                             He dabbled in alchemy as well as astrology, and on his shelves
                            were many of the latest works on potable gold. A poet of his time says
                            of him :
                        Were there a Balsam, which all wounds could cure, 'Twas in this
                            Asculapian hand be sure.
                        He left a son Wait who inherited his father's fondness for prescribing,
                            and who like his father was an adept in panaceas, and was believed to
                            have golden secrets and secrets more precious than gold, "unknown to
                            Hippocrates and Helmont." Doubtless many New-Englanders were dosed by
                            the revered Winthrops with the tincture of the sun, potable gold, made
                            by marrying in some fashion the "masculine gold" to the "feminine
                            mercury," and possessing all virtuesvegetable, mineral, and
                            animal"destroying the Root and Seminaries of all malignant and poisonous
                            diseases."
                    
                    
                    
                        IX.
                        Weapon ointment, sympathetic powder, potable gold, were much thought of,
                            but the authorized pharmacopoeias ignored these Gothic medicines that
                            traced their origin to alchemists and Rosicrucians.
                                Theriac and remedies of serpent's flesh.
                             Yet the notion of a universal antidote was in regular medicine
                            as well.
                                Galen, De Theriaca ad Pisonem, and De Antidotis Epitomes.
                             Primitive science, having no reins on the imagination, longs for
                            perfection, seeks the universal, and dreams of great discoveries.
                                Adams, Paulus Egineta, iii, 528.
                             Back through a long line of medical writers we may trace the
                            belief in the virtues of theriac and mithridate to Galen and into the
                            centuries before Galen. The accepted story of its origin is that
                            Mithridates, King of Pontus, by a series of experiments on criminals,
                            had found out, or thought he had found out, what medicaments would
                            neutralize various poisons. These he put together for a universal
                            antidote. Andromachus, physician to Nero, changed the constitution of
                            the remedy somewhat, adding the flesh of the viper, probably on the
                            principle of curing like by like. This remedy of Andromachus was the
                            famous theriac which was so much lauded by Galen and which imposed
                            itself even on modern times. It was expelled from the British
                            Pharmacopoeia only in the middle of the eighteenth century by a bare
                            majority of one vote in the college. It contained more than sixty
                            ingredients, and was commonly known in England as Venice treacle. Not
                            only all poisons but many diseases were supposed to be  conquerable by this universal.
                                Maranta, De Theriacaet Mithridatio, 1576.
                             remedy. Numerous other preparations of viper's flesh were in
                            use; things poisonous were thought to contain much virtue.
                                Note 19.
                             What theriac was used in the colonies was no doubt made
                                abroad.
                                Compo Adams on P. gineta, iii, 121.
                             In less complicated preparations the American rattlesnake was
                            made to take the place held for thousands of years by its rival in
                            virulence, the European viper.
                                Judd's Hadley, 361. Josselyn's
                             The flesh of the rattlesnake was fed to the infirm, perhaps in
                            broths as the viper was given for ages, and as the Scotch used the
                                adder.
                                Two Voyages, 114.
                             His gall mixed with chalk was made into "snake balls" and given
                            internally; his heart was dried and powdered and drunk in wine or beer
                            to cure the venom of the snake, on the ancient principle of curing by
                                likes.
                                Byrd's Westover Papers, 66.
                             In Virginia the oil of the snake was recommended for gout, while
                            in frosty New England the fat was, if we may believe Josselyn, "very
                            sovraign for frozen limbs and sprains.
                                Joannes Juvenis, De Medicamentis, 240, and Salmon's Eng.
                                    Physician, 763.
                            " The American backwoodsman of to-day, perhaps unconsciously,
                            uses a homely substitute for the viper wine or theriacal wine of other
                            times when he soaks the flesh of the rattlesnake in spirits to make
                            "bitters" against rheumatism.
                    
                    
                        x.
                        There was yet another universal antidote recognized in the regular
                            medicine of the time.
                                Bezoar.
                             The bezoar or bezar stone was a concretion taken from the
                            intestines of wild goats and other animals. That brought from the Orient
                            was accounted most  valuable. It was used
                            at first in the East as an amulet; there were other.
                                Monardes, Eng. ed., page 3, and Acosta, livre 4, chap. xiii.
                             remedies of olden times that served their purpose just as well
                            when worn about the person as when taken medicinally.
                                Tanner's Art of Physic, 515.
                             A "stone" found in so unusual a place excited wonder, and there
                            grew up a mythical notion of its origin.
                                Note 20.
                             This particular wild goat, in the opinion of the sixteenth
                            century, indulged itself on occasion in a diet of poisonous snakes.
                                Castrillo, chap. xxvi.
                             To cool the burning produced in its stomach by this debauch, the
                            creature plunged into the water. On coming out it sought and ate of
                            health-giving herbs, and as a result the bezoar was concreted in its
                            vitals. The cost of the bezoar, the "queen of poisons," was great. "If
                            you take too much, your purse will soon complain," says a medical writer
                            in 1661. The concretions of the "mountain goat" were the original
                            bezoar, but any intestinal formation of the kind came to be considered
                            bezoar. In Java the viscera of the porcupine were eagerly searched for
                            such deposits, and one of these worthless things called a pedro porco was sold for the price of pearls. There were
                            ruminants in Chili and Peru that yielded bezoars, which ranked second to
                            those of the East; Mexico contributed a lower grade still. Finding these
                            stones valuable. the shrewd Indians learned to counterfeit them, and as
                            they were of all sizes, colors, and forms, and there was no test of
                            fineness, there were others than natives who knew how to sophisticate,
                            so that the famous powder magisterial  of
                            bezoar often probably contained nothing of the kind.
                                neid, xii, 412
                             The remedy was used in the colonies.
                                Note 21.
                             Clayton, the parson who was in Virginia before 1690, tells of a
                            skillful woman physician there who gave pulverized "oriental bezoar
                            stone" in the case of a man bitten by a rattlesnake and followed it with
                            a decoction of dittany, the same at least in name with that ancient
                            remedy which Venus applied to the wound of her son neas, and to which
                            the wild goats in those knowing times resorted when the winged arrows of
                            the hunters were sticking in their sides.
                                Compo Hatfield House MSS., v, 3.
                             We get a notion of the persistence of medical tradition when we
                            find administered in Virginia an antidote brought into Europe from the
                            East in the middle ages and an orthodox simple derived from the remotest
                            Greek antiquity, and both of them probably without merit.
                    
                    
                        XI.
                        This magic of dittany has much instruction for us who study the genesis
                            of colonial medicine.
                                American herbs.
                             Not only Cretan dittany, but white dittany as well, was esteemed
                            efficacious against the poison of "serpents, mad dogs, and venomous
                            beasts." Medical theory was very expansive. Because the plant that grew
                            on the Cretan mountain sides was fabled to expel the barbed arrows that
                            remained in the wounds of the wild goats, Cretan dittany and white
                            dittany were accounted potent not only to cure poison, but to extract
                            bits of wood or bone  from wounds, and to
                            remove foreign bodies of all sorts, and even to assist in
                                parturition.
                                Royal Soc. Phil. Trans., Abridgment, ii, 811.
                             Dittany was such an antagonist to poison that Gerarde is quoted
                            as saying, "The very smell driveth away venomous beasts, and doth
                            astonish them.
                                Gowan's Wooley, 43, 44.
                            " Whether the Virginia doctors mentioned in the preceding section
                            cured the rattlesnake's bite by using Cretan or white dittany, or
                            perhaps by neither, is not certain, for by a curious process the name
                            and virtues of dittany had before this time been transferred to American
                            pennyroyal, which appears to have been still more astonishing to a snake
                            than dittany.
                                Meehan's Monthly, Nov., 1897, on American dittany. Glover in
                                    Phil.
                             Captain Silas Taylor told the learned Royal Society, ever eager
                            in that day to hear of marvelous discoveries from returning travelers,
                            that in 1657 he had held to the nose of an unwilling rattlesnake the
                            bruised leaves of "wild pennyroyal, or dittany, of Virginia.
                                Trans., Abridgment, iii, 572.
                            " The serpent was killed by the antidote in half an hour. Other
                            virtues of dittany were ascribed to pennyroyal in New York; here it was
                            also used against rattlesnakes. But the name dittany, or American
                            dittany, was presently settled by early Virginia botanists on Cunila Americana, and the miraculous virtues ascribed
                            to Cretan dittany anciently, and later to European species and to
                            pennyroyal, were finally attached to the so-called American dittany.
                        It was by such processes that many American herbs became medicinal. A
                            fancied resemblance caused the name of a European plant to be
                            transferred, sometimes to more than one American species,  and with the name was carried over the
                            traditional virtues.
                                Note 22.
                             Favorite herbs were transplanted from English gardens to those
                            of colonial house mothers, who even took pains to cultivate in America
                            the wild plants they had been wont to pluck for simples from English
                                hedgerows.
                                Glover to Royal Society, Abridgment, iii, 570.
                             But the seeds of English weeds emigrated by smuggling themselves
                            with better company, and the hardy vagabonds of English roadsides gained
                            an easy advantage over the feebler natives of the American banks.
                                Two Voyages to New England, 61.
                             Herbs from Europe soon put on the airs of native Americans.
                                Botanical researches
                             There was no lack, therefore, of old acquaintances for simples,
                            and the wild woods were full of new plants and animals presumed to be of
                            pharmaceutical value, for the idealism of the time denied that anything
                            was superfluous.
                                Comp. Tiraboschi, Storia della Letteratura Italiana, xiv, 424,
                                    431.
                             "We have the Scriptures to back it," says Josselyn, "that God
                            created nothing in vain.
                                Note 23.
                            "
                    
                    
                        XII.
                        The search for new remedies in the bewildering jumble of hitherto unknown
                            plants revealed by the discovery of America gave a new interest to
                            botany, which was the foremost of the biological sciences in the
                            seventeenth and eighteenth centuries.
                                Compare Latham's Life of Sydenham, p. lxxv ff. Comp. uvres de
                                    Bayle, i, 267, 268.
                             Jesuit missionaries in South America learned from the natives
                            the medicinal value of the bark of the cinchona tree, in 1632, and it
                            was at length introduced into European medicine. This was the greatest
                            trophy of botanical research in  the New
                            World, though the Old World met the discovery with stubborn prejudice
                            and resistance. The brilliant results achieved in malarial diseases by
                            the use of Jesuits' or Peruvian bark after its general introduction into
                            Europe, about the middle of the century, probably awakened expectation
                            of similar discoveries in North America.
                                Note 24.
                             The traveler Josselyn, who arrived in New England in 1663, was
                            an assiduous herb gatherer; he examined the weeds and woods and wild
                            beasts to find novel remedies, and he has recorded for us the popular
                            applications of many new substances.
                                Signaturism in America.
                             Glover, and Clayton the parson, and the botanist Bannister, were
                            observing Virginia plants in the latter part of the seventeenth century.
                            In the eighteenth there were several eminent native botanists, and
                            others came from Europe. To three of theseKalm, a Swede; Schpf, a
                            German; and Castiglione, an Italianwe owe the most careful observations,
                            not only of the plants but of social conditions in America.
                    
                    
                        XIII.
                        But the popular use of American plants and animals did not depend on
                            botanical research. The general belief was that all things were made
                            with reference to man. The wild woods were full of creatures whose value
                            was written on each of them in the language of signatures, if the seeker
                            for simples could only manage to decipher the  label with which it had been considerately tagged at the
                                creation.
                                Two Voyages, 64, 65, 72.
                             If we look into Josselyn's list of American remedies, we shall
                            see how much painful observation and investigation had been saved by
                            this shopkeeper scheme of Nature.
                                Two Voyages, 99.
                             The bark of the board-pine was naturally good for the skin;
                            rosin gathered on the bark was used for outward application; turpentine
                            procured by incisions was "excellent to heal wounds and cuts." Even
                            cosmetic applications were probably suggested in the same way; green
                            pine cones having a corrugated surface were good to remove wrinkles from
                            the face; water distilled from them was "laid on with cloths." The
                            familiar kidney bean, first known to Europeans in the gardens of the
                            American savages, was "good to strengthen the kidneys," as anybody might
                            know at sight.
                                Labadists' Journal, 83.
                             The signature might be "internal" as well as external, and very
                            opposite deductions were sometimes made. The French thought that the
                            mottled eggs of the American turkey bred leprosy, but the English
                            colonists thought that the similar eggs of the turkey buzzard were able
                            to "restore decayed nature exceedingly." From some association of
                            symbolism the brains of the shark and jelly from the head of the
                            drumfish were thought to assist in obstetric cases.
                                Glover in Phil. Trans., Abr., iii, 567.
                             Brickell, a medical man, records the fact that the pit of the
                            Carolina haw was thought serviceable in cases of "the stone, gravel, and
                            dropsy," and he recommends the brains of the screech owl for
                                headache.
                                Brickell's Carolina.
                             As in Europe signaturism  would
                            seem to have had its first lodgment in the superstitious use of amulets,
                            so in America like cured like when merely worn about the person.
                                Compare Monardes on bloodstone, ed. 1577, folio 18, reverse.
                             In New England the fangs of wolves were strung about the necks
                            of children to save them from fright; and the cast-off skin of the
                            rattlesnake was worn as a girdle to facilitate parturition.
                                Note 25.
                             The practice must have been pretty general, since we find it in
                            Connecticut and Pennsylvania.
                                Knig, Regnum Animale, 164. Gentleman's Mag. Library of Pop.
                                    Superstitions, 128.
                             No doubt the custom which still obtains in malarial regions of
                            wearing a necklace of caterpillars to cure ague by shuddering, antedates
                            the discovery of Peruvian bark.
                                Comp. Long-fellow's Evangeline, i, 3.
                             In the seventeenth century a spider inclosed in a nutshell,
                            wrapped in silk and hung about the neck so as to touch the skin, "did
                            much to drive away intermittent fevers more quickly.
                                Lovell's Animals and Minerals, 1661. Adams's Paulus g., iii, 49.
                                    Compare also Knig, as above, 164, 165.
                            " In England the patient was sometimes dosed with the spider, and
                            the practice is still known in English folk-medicine. In the valley of
                            the Ohio, spier-web pills are given by rustics to cure ague. The use of
                            spiders in some form against intermittents is more than two thousand
                            years old; Greek physicians, before the beginning of the Christian era,
                            put a plaster of them on the patient's forehead.
                        It is to be remembered that in the ages before science it was held that
                            in case of recovery there must have been a remedy. Nothing got well of
                            itself. Now we know that the great majority of ills will heal
                            themselves. In every case of spontaneous healing in that time a remedy
                            was looked  for, and so nearly everything
                            was believed to be a remedy for something.
                    
                    
                        XIV.
                        Many remedies were in use in the early colonial practice and in Europe
                            that seem to have had nothing to recommend them except an unconfessed
                            notion that disgust was curative, and the belief that nothing was made
                            in vain.
                                Animal remedies.
                             Pulverized butterflies, crickets, and grasshoppers are not the
                            worst of these by several degrees.
                                Note 26.
                             Sowbugs were highly esteemed; earwigs and emmets, which
                            sometimes crept into the ears, were good for deafness and were given in
                            oil; tumblebugs for some reason cured rabies, and bedbugs were valuable
                            in lyingin cases, perhaps from their clinical associations.
                                Brickell's Carolina, passim. Green's Medicine
                                    in Mass., 22, and many others.
                             Even more intimate vermin were given alone or put into
                                compounds.
                                Note 27.
                             The skins, the viscera, and the dejecta of animals were in use,
                            and many of the most loathsome of these substances were found in the
                            regular pharmacopias. Human orts and ends were highly prized; the
                            volatile salt of men's bones was especially "homogeneal to humane
                            nature"; the scrapings of human skulls, human fat, and the liquid called
                            mummy distilled from dead bodies were devoutly believed to have much
                            efficacy. It was only as time wore on that organic chemistry arose to
                            deliver the afflicted from the nauseous and the noxious by dumping whole
                            pharmacopias of vile medicament into the homogeneal sewers.
                    
                    
                    
                        XV.
                        The colonists fell into a common error of unscientific men: they
                            overestimated the value of the medical hocus-pocus of the savages.
                                Indian remedies.
                             In Pennsylvania they were, in 1696, pronounced "as able
                            physicians as any in Europe.
                                Watson's Annals, i, 69.
                            " Indian physic was in great part empty jugglery against
                            imaginary spirits, but in rough-and-ready surgery the savages had some
                            arts useful in the exigencies of forest life.
                                Note 28.
                             They had herbs for cathartics and emetics; they taught the
                            colonists the use of various roots which they believed to be antidotes
                            for the bite of the rattlesnake.
                                Westover Manuscripts, 42.
                             Byrd is able to name nearly a dozen of these supposed
                                antidotes.
                                Royal Phil. Trans., xli, 143 and ff., 1687. Lambert's Hist. of
                                    New Haven and Milford, 112.
                             One of these, the so-called Seneca snakeroot, came into great
                            reputation in Europe as a general medicine.
                                Colonial medical men.
                             John Clayton the clergyman collected three hundred species of
                            plants used as remedies by the Indians. Quacks in the colonies soon
                            learned the trick of claiming to have medical secrets from the medicine
                            men of the Indians. As early as the beginning of the eighteenth century
                            this cloak for ignorance and imposture was found convenient, and the
                            "Indian" or "botanical" doctor was already plying his trade.
                    
                    
                        XVI.
                        It was the usual practice to send out with each "plantation" or
                            settlement a surgeon who knew some physic. One of these was allowed in
                            1619  thirty shillings a month.
                                Smith of Nibley MSS.
                             As money then went, thirty shillings would be equal to nearly as
                            many dollars now. Dr. Pott, a Master of Arts, and both chemist and
                            Galenist in training, a somewhat reckless liver, a councilor, and for a
                            short time a temporary governor, was the only physician in Virginia in
                                1630.
                                Comp., for example, Accomac Records, 1633-'39, passim, and York Records, 1638, 1639, and 1645.
                             Involved in the factional intrigues of the time, only his
                            medical skill saved him from being hanged out of hand for theft by the
                            arbitrary Sir John Harvey.
                                Note 29.
                             Harvey could not muster courage to put to death the only
                            competent medical man in the whole colony in a time of epidemic.
                                MSS. Records, Accomac County
                             A like indispensableness probably saved Pratt, a surgeon of
                            Cambridge, Mass., from banishment for free speaking. There were in
                            Virginia a good many rough practitioners of one sort or another; in the
                            manuscript county record books of this early period they are called
                            "chirurgeons." The barber, who practiced minor surgery along with
                            shaving and hairdressing, was a natural outgrowth of the conditions
                            existing in the middle ages. But conditions had changed, and the barber
                            surgeon was in a fair way of extinction from unsuitableness to
                            environment when the colonies were settled. In 1638 a barber surgeon
                            lost his life journeying from Boston to Roxbury in a snowstorm to pull a
                            tooth. In a Virginia inventory of 1640 sixteen kinds of drugs are mixed
                            up with a hone, a razor, a lancet, and four other implements of a
                            surgical barber. In 1652 the surgeons of New Amsterdam petitioned for
                            the exclusive right to  shave. But a trade
                            profession so widely bifurcated could not survive the first generation
                            in a new country. The settler probably shaved himself in preference to
                            seeking a surgeon to do it, and the barber improved his social rank by
                            putting away his razor and hone and setting up in his medical capacity
                            only. As the higher ranks of the profession were mostly unoccupied, the
                            very word surgeon as a professional distinction disappeared from general
                            use in America. Every smatterer breveted himself physician to fill the
                            vacancy. The so-called bonesetters, of whom we hear very early in New
                            England, must have had predecessors in the mother country. Men with no
                            professional training and little education, they appear to have been
                            expert in the mere joiner work of surgery, as their title implies. The
                            art was often transmitted from father to son, and was sometimes believed
                            to be a natural and hereditary gift. In 1652 the Connecticut General
                            Court employed one of these men for the colony. This appointment of a
                            bonesetter-general indicates the rarity of surgeons in the country when
                            those of the first generation had disappeared. Six years later Boston
                            felt some alarm at the number of people resorting thither for "help in
                            physic and surgery," and took measures to prevent the town from becoming
                            responsible for the support of any of these patients. Clayton gives an
                            unflattering account of Virginia physicians in the latter part of the
                            century. They were, no doubt, like all the colonial medical men of the
                            time, mere  country-bred doctors, with the
                            training that could be got from an apprenticeship to the half-educated
                            surgeons, their predecessors.
                                Clayton in Force's Tracts.
                             Their standard remedy was "crocus metallorum," which indeed,
                            says Clayton, "every house keeps, and if their finger, as the saying is,
                            ake but, they give three or four spoonfuls; if this fail, they give him
                            a second dose, then purge them with fifteen or twenty grains of Rosin of
                            Jalap, afterwards sweat them with Venice Treacle, Powder of Snake Root
                            or Gascoin's Powder.
                                Note 30.
                            " These failing, the case was given up.
                                Medical parsons and medical women.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        XVII.
                        From remote times it fell to the lot of the priest, as the only educated
                            man in the parish, to give medical advice; so that medicine was at one
                            time almost wholly in the hands of the clergy and women.
                                Compare Forsyth, Antiquary's Portfolio, i, 36.
                             This medival usage cast its shadow across the following
                            centuries, and some of the clergy who came to America had a fair
                            acquaintance with the medical knowledge of the time. Robert Paulet, who
                            was sent to Virginia as a parson in 1619, appears to have been highly
                            esteemed as a physician; he refused a place in the governor's council
                            because he could not be spared by the people of his region. Many of the
                            ministers in New England practiced physic, some of them professionally,
                            others apparently gratuitously. There were few educated men in New
                            England or Virginia who did not keep a few medical books and  perhaps prescribe for their
                                neighbors.
                                Roy.
                             Women had for ages practiced medicine. The dependents in the
                            country houses and the tenants on the estates in England and in Europe
                            generally looked to the wife of the master for medical advice.
                                Comm. Gawdy MSS., p.
                             The same conditions persisted until recently on the large
                            plantations in the Southern States, where the mistress was obliged to
                            have her little stock of drugs and her ready traditional rule of
                            prescription for the ordinary maladies.
                                144 and others.
                             Professional women physicians were not uncommon. In country
                            places in England the "good woman," as she was called, still lingered;
                            she was "a pretended physician, chirurgeon, and blesser." She claimed
                            especial skill in counteracting the mischief wrought by witches and
                            demons, and this part of her art was sometimes called "white
                            witchcraft." Obstetric cases were wholly in the hands of midwives in the
                            earlier colonial period.
                                Roll of Royal Coll. of Physicians, i, 195.
                             It was just about this time that Dr. Peter Chamberlen attempted
                            to organize women practitioners of midwifery in England into a company,
                            with himself at their head as president and examiner.
                                Calendar of Dutch MSS., 148.
                             As early as 1655 a midwife was officially appointed in New
                            Amsterdam and a house erected for her.
                                O'Callaghan, New Netherland, 155.
                             The same class of practitioners were in the other colonies, and
                            it was with difficulty that physicians could acquire a portion of the
                            obstetric practice at a later time.
                                Comp. Sewall's Diary, i, preface, xiii, and page 166.
                             There was also a class of women practitioners in many
                                places
                                Comp. Watson's Annals of N. Y., 205.
                             who did not confine themselves to any one branch of practice and
                            who gave the officinal remedies of  the
                            time. Clayton mentions one such doctress in Virginia; Byrd at a later
                            period alludes to another.
                                Slaughter's History of the Parish quoted in Anderson's Col.
                                    Church, iii, 118. Niles, French and Indian Wars, 3. Mass. Hist.
                                    Soc. Coll., vi, 199. MSS. Com. 14 Rep't, pt. ii, R. Owen to E.
                                    Harley, June, 1638. D'Ewes, Autob., i, 26. Note 31.
                             There is a record that this latter, a Mrs. Livingston, of
                            Fredericksburg, was paid a thousand pounds of tobacco by the parish of
                            St. George "for salivating a poor woman, and promising to cure her again
                            if she should be sick again in twelve Months.
                                Decline of medical knowledge.
                            " In some case like those of the famous Mrs. Hutchinson, of
                            Boston, the services of a gentlewoman versed in obstetric practice were
                            freely given to her neighbours; the professional doctress of Block
                            Island at a later period was the wife of a rich man.
                                Green's Medicine in Mass.
                             The practice of general medicine by women prevailed in England
                            at the time, and came down from it is hard to say what antiquity, for
                            one of the most famous of all the medical professors of Europe in the
                            eleventh century was a woman.
                    
                    
                        XVIII
                        Colonial medicine declined in character from the beginning. The
                            physicians of the second generation, like the magistrates and clergymen,
                            had much less education than those who came from England. Besides their
                            lack of general culture they had no proper training; the surgeon sent to
                            Massachusetts in 1629 was obligated to take one or more apprentices to
                            learn his art. This apprenticeship was probably all the teaching
                            received by the native practitioners of the seventeenth century and the
                            early eighteenth. It was  complained, in
                            1647, that medical students in Massachusetts were "forced to fall to
                            practice before ever they saw an Anatomy made." The doctors of America
                            could hardly have ranked with the most rustic chirurgeons in
                                England.
                                The same, 31.
                             As the first generation of the American born came on the stage,
                            ignorant quacks and fanatics grew as rank as the English weeds that
                            flourished in the forest mold of a new continent. "We ought by all
                            means," says a Pennsylvania writer of 1684, "to discountenance all
                            Babylonical Letter-learned physitians both for the Soul and Body." The
                            medicine of the age was bad enough at its best; worse than the Greek
                            medicine whose traditions it revered and sometimes followed. The first
                            influence of the chemical school had been mainly bad; it was only later
                            that good results came from it. But the seventeenth century was none the
                            less a century of advance; in that age modern scientific medicine was
                            born. Harvey's discovery of the circulation of the blood is the starting
                            point, not only of modern medicine, but of experimental science as well.
                            His investigations on the subject of generation gave a philosophical
                            basis to comparative anatomy, and thus broadened the field of human
                            thought. In that century the skill of physicians first learned to cope
                            with malarial disease as a result of the introduction of cinchona, the
                            most important of all modern remedies. But the intellectual progress of
                            the time was a narrow current perceptible in the mid-channel of a wide
                                 and sluggish river whose shore reaches
                            were stagnant marshes and never-changing pools.
                                Note 1, page 50.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        ELUCIDATIONS.
                        
                        There is a pleasant sentence touching this reverence for the traditional
                            in Harvey's lectures, in which he alludes to the necessity for using the
                            utmost precaution, because he is dealing with an error two thousand
                            years old.
                                Note 2, page 50.
                             "Hinc error 2,000 annorum pridem habitus quare egi obsequatis
                            tabulis quia tarn antiqua: a tantis viris culta.
                                Note 3, page 51.
                            " Prelectiones, 78.
                        
                            But first they showed their high descent,
                            Each eldest daughter to each element,
                            Choler was owned by Fire and Blood by Air;
                            Earth knew her black swarth child, Water her fair.
                        
                        Anne Bradstreet's Poems, 36.
                        There were other curious notions about the humors. For example, a
                            physician, writing on Tunbridge water in 1670, speaks of phlegm as "the
                            private excrement of the brain at the mouth and nose." The opinion was
                            no doubt generally held on the authority of Galen's Medical Definitions,
                            in which the mucus from the nostrils is called "an excrement and
                            sediment of the brain." Par says phlegm is blood half concocted and is
                            fit to nourish the brain. English edition, p. 9.
                        This "numeral fetichism "may be plainly traced to Galen, and it is
                            evident also in the theory of the "critical days "in disease which
                            Hippocrates announced and which has been accepted in some form down
                            almost to this day. See, for example, Aphorisms of Hippocrates, section
                            ii, 24; iv, 59, 61, 64; and Adams's references to Galen on these in his
                            edition. Sir Conrad Sprengell's comment on the former of these, in his
                            English translation of the Aphorisms in 1735, shows the vitality of the
                            notion at a late date. Conrad Sprengell reduces the days to periods, and
                            he hesitates to accept the dictum of Hippocrates, that fevers are apt to
                            return unless they leave the patient on odd days. Compare the short work
                            that Kurt Sprengel, at a later day, makes of this very aphorism in his
                            Apologie des Hippocrates, 1788. The ridicule of Molire has not missed a
                            preciosity so delightful as this reverence for number. In the Malade
                            Imaginaire the physician is asked how many grains of salt should be put
                            into an egg.
                        
                        "Six, eight, ten," is the reply, "in even numbers, as the medicines are
                            to be given in odd numbers." Act ii, sc. ix. Compare also what Philo
                            Judus says in eulogy of the number seven and its parts: Creation of the
                            World, chap, xxx, and in chap, xxxv, his citation of an elegy by Solon
                            the lawgiver, dividing life into ten periods of seven years.
                                Note 4, page 51.
                             In the following chapter the division of human life by
                            Hippocrates into seven periods is mentioned.
                                Note 5, page 52.
                             This passion for numeration, thousands of years old, emigrated
                            to America. Anne Bradstreet sings of The Four Humors in the Constitution
                            of Man, The Four Ages of Man, The Four Seasons of the Year, and The Four
                            Monarchies. The number four ran in the family; her father, Governor
                            Dudley, wrote of The Four Parts of the World.
                        When the words of the text were written I did not know that Maurice
                            Raynaud had remarked the same thing. "Il est digne de remarque que la
                            mdecine humorale est reste celle des gens du peuple, dont la langage est
                            si souvent ce qu'tait deux cents ans auparavant, celui de la science."
                            Les Mdecins au Temps de Molire, 180, note. In 1580 Juan Huarte, a
                            Spanish physician, published Examen de Ingenios para las Sciencias, a
                            work of great popularity which was rendered into many tongues. The
                            English version appeared in 1616 under the title A Triall of Wits.
                            Huarte tried to do what modern phrenology has attemptedto indicate the
                            aptitude of men for different occupations. In chaps. v and vi he
                            explains that all the difference in the character of men's minds is
                            traceable to heat, dryness, and humidity. Dryness is favorable to
                            understanding, heat to imagination, while moisture is essential to
                            memory, which is therefore strongest in the morning.
                        In that strange series of notes which we know as Bacon's Natural History,
                            the following remedies are mentioned as familiar cathartics and
                            diuretics of that time: colquintid, agaric, black hellebore, scammony,
                            antimony, mechoacan, rhubarb, senna, wormwood, myrobalanes, peach-tree
                            bark, medicines of mercury, salt, oxymel, and pepper. Except mechoacan,
                            peach-tree bark, and perhaps wormwood, all these remedies were known to
                            the Arabians, and all the rest except senna, myrobalanes, and oxymel
                            were, I believe, included in the ancient Greek materia medica. Compare
                            Adams's Paulus gineta, vol. iii, passim. Clysters and
                            suppositories are mentioned by Bacon. It would seem that purgatives and
                            their opposites were very important elements of English  medicine in the seventeenth century.
                                Note 6, page 53.
                             Bacon repeats the jest of a famous Jewish physician, who said
                            that English medical men were "like bishops that have the power of
                            binding and loosing, but no more.
                                Note 7, page 55.
                            " Advancement of Learning, book ii. The use of cathartics to void
                            humors that might send up vapors to the brain, recalls Vaughan's advice
                            that one should sleep on the right side with the mouth open, and with a
                            hole in the nightcap at the top. Fifteen Directions for Health, p. 13,
                            1602, Early English Text Society.
                        Barrough's The Method of Phisicke directs in certain cases to draw blood
                            out of the middle vein of the forehead, and in another case "you must
                            cut the liuer veine on the arme." Third edition, 1601, pp. 45 and 46. I
                            have also a copy of the seventh edition of this popular manual dated
                            1634. Its general use in America was probably matched by its authority
                            in England. There is a round denunciation of the practice of venesection
                            by an anti-Galenist in Thomson on the Plague, 1666, pp. 50 and 51.
                            Venesection was not nearly so common in England as in France. In the
                            Historical MSS. Commission, Eleventh Report, Appendix, part v, p. 7, is
                            a letter from Prince Rupert: "I am in noe small paine for our cosin
                            since I heare she hath gott the small poxe. Pray God shee falle not into
                            the Frenchifyed physician's hands, soe lett blode and dye."
                        That the doctrine of signatures is more ancient than Paracelsus I have no
                            doubt. The treatise De Dynamdiis, usually enumerated among the works of
                            Galen, and sometimes ascribed to Gariopontus, of the famous medical
                            school of Salerno (a professed compiler from Galen), deduces the
                            therapeutic virtue of substances form color, form, or other
                            characteristics. uvres de Ambroise Par, Introduction par Malgaigne, xxi.
                            Compare also Henderson's School of Salernum, ii. But the editor of
                            Sydenham Society's edition of Paulus gineta has in part anticipated this
                            remark, for he says that he has "detected a few traces of the singular
                            doctrine of signatures, so-called, in the works of ancient authorities,"
                            iii, 16. Major J. W. Powell, Director of the Bureau of Ethnology of the
                            Smithsonian Institution, tells me that the doctrine of curing by likes
                            is a part of the medical theory of every tribe of American Indians, as
                            it is very curiously of Chinese medicine. The conclusion is not a
                            violent one that it is an element of primitive medicine generally. It
                            was elaborated into an element of philosophy in the later middle ages.
                            Basilius Valentinus,  whose Triumph Wagen
                            Antimonii, written about 1500 A. D., appears to have furnished
                            Paracelsus with many germs of theory, pretends that a spider being
                            poisonous can not get away if surrounded by a circle of unicorn's horn
                            which was an ideal antidote to poison. But if any poisonous substance
                            were added to the circle, the spell was broken and the spider escaped.
                            Bread, on the other hand, was strongly attracted by unicorn's horn, both
                            being free from poison, pp. 66 and 67, original edition, 1624. His
                            general principle is stated mystically" Simile simili gaudet."
                            Paracelsus probably derives from this his dictum "of likes with likes,
                            not contraries against contraries "("Ex qua recepta sibi proponuntur
                            similium cum similibus non contrariorum ad contraria "), and he adds,
                            "Salt therefore wishes to have its Salt, Mercury its Mercury, and
                            Sulphur its Sulphur "salt, mercury, and sulphur being the three
                            principal elements in mystic philosophy. Paracelsus, De Cutis
                            Apertionibus, chap, vii, p. 62. Compare Otto Tachenius, His Clavis, p.
                            2, and see the doctrine of the sympathy of similars stated with a
                            ludicrous mimicry of logic by a learned Galenist, Maranta, in his De
                            Theriaca, liber i, caput iii (1576). Adams, in his edition of the works
                            of Hippocrates, i, 75 ff., on the treatise anciently ascribed to
                            Hippocrates and belonging to his period, On the Places in Man, says:
                            "And he further makes the important remark that, although the general
                            rule of treatment be 'contraria contrariis curantur,' the opposite rule
                            also holds good in some cases, namely, 'Similia similibus curantur.'"
                            Basilius Valentinus, p. 68, recognizes both methods as though this
                            passage were before him, and Paracelsus appears to be denying the first
                            half of it in the extract given above. It is not possible to separate
                            this doctrine of curing by likes from the doctrine of signatures with
                            which it was entangled. One of the best statements of this is to be
                            found in the Magia Natural o Ciencia de Filosofia Secreta, a very
                            intelligent work by Castrillo, a Spanish Jesuit, which bears date 1649.
                            He says that many "modern philosophers " have pretended to find in
                            external forms indications of the occult qualities of things. Plants
                            that show any resemblance to the human head are good for cephalic
                            troubles, as are animals whose heads are remarkable in shape, such as
                            the elephant, the beaver, and others. Animals with eyes notable in any
                            way are remedies for the ills of that organ, and he instances among
                            others the turtle that in dying was believed to shut one eye and open
                            the other, and mentions a stone that showed a pupil within a circle
                            which rendered the vision acute if held in 
                            the hand. The whole passage is interesting.
                                Note 8, Page 55.
                             Folios 16 and 17. The cure by similitudes is found in the
                            treatment by amulets, and in that form is probably older than in
                                medicine.
                                Note 9, Page 57.
                             There seems to be a trace of this mode of thinking in the
                            ancient legend of Telephus, which has served so many poets, including
                            Dante and Chaucer, and which gave anciently the name "telephean" to
                            incurable ulcers. Wounded by Achilles, Telephus could be healed only by
                            rust from the spear that inflicted the injury. A suggestion of the same
                            feeling among the Semitic nations is perhaps to be found in the brazen
                            serpent of Moses, and in the offering of the Philistines, 1 Samuel, vi.
                        From the English version of Jacob Behmen's De Signatura Rerum I quote the
                            following: "Every root as it is in the Earth may be known by the
                            signature for what it is good and profitable, and it is discerned in the
                            leaves and stalk which Planet is Lord in the Property, much more in the
                            Flower: for of what taste the Herb and Root is, even such an Hunger is
                            in it, and such a cure lies therein, for it has such a Salt." Compare
                            the term sulphur applied to rosin: "welchs des Baums Sulphur ist."
                            Triumph Wagen, 230. There was a passion for the mystical and esoteric in
                            science at the end of the middle ages. "Medicine," says Paracelsus, "is
                            not otherwise a science than this that the will of God may be secret and
                            secret may be the will of God." De Naturalibus Rebus, chap. v. Among the
                            manuscripts in my collection is a very clever alchemical Poeme Sur
                            l'elixir Royal in a handwriting of the late seventeenth century. In
                            this, Nature, exhorting the poet to speak of the forces by which Heaven
                            has extracted light from metals, enjoins him to speak esoterically "like
                            a philosopher":
                        
                            Parles, m-a-t-elle dit, de ces premiers agens
                            Dont la ciel des mtaux a puise la lumiere,
                            Parles en Philosophe, afin que ma matire
                            Ne se laisse trouver qu'au plus intelligens.
                        
                        Bacon recommended the entrails and skin of a wolf for colic. A case
                            recently occurred in the suburbs of New York city in which a mother
                            administered boiled mice to cure a child of nervous timidityno doubt a
                            survival of some old English prescription based on "curing by the
                            assimulate." Salmon, in his English Physician, 1693, p. 309, says, "The
                            Flesh and the Liver of a Mad Dog dryed and beaten into Pouder are said
                            to cure the biting of a Mad Dog." He prescribes the spleen of an ox for
                            diseases  of that organ, and the lungs of a
                            fox for pulmonary diseases.
                                Note 10, page 58.
                             The list of such remedies might be multiplied.
                                Note ii, page 59.
                             In popular medicine yellow dock is still used for jaundice. In
                            1708 Lady Otway gives two recipes for curing jaundice made up mostly of
                            yellow substances. In the one she put lemon, turmeric, and saffron; the
                            other consisted of "20 head-lice mixed with nutmeg and sugar and powder
                            of turmerick." Royal Historical MSS. Commission, Tenth Report, Appendix,
                            part iv, 352.
                        Stafford appears to claim this as his own nostrum, but the process is
                            given in Paracelsus, who no doubt found it in Basil Valentine, who
                            differs from Stafford in the number of toads. One live poisonous toadein
                            lebendige gifftige Krteis his prescription. The toad was dried in the
                            sun and burned in a closed kettle, after which it was pulverized. He
                            explains that calcination brought out the inner power or poison of the
                            toad, which being applied, "like its like," drew out. Basil calls it a
                            magnetic cure. Triumph Wagen, edition 1624, 71. See the allusions to
                            this preparation in Emanuel Knig, Regnum Animale, 1683, 139, where
                            various authorities are cited, and where a mode of preparing the toad
                            for an amuletnobilissimum amuletumis given, following Paracelsus and the
                            Basilica Chymica. On the medical uses to which the toad was applied in
                            England compare History of Animals and Minerals, by Robert Lovell,
                            Oxford, 1661, and Salmon's English Physician, 1693. As an antidote to
                            its own poison the red toad was used anciently. See the authorities
                            cited in Adams's Paulus gineta, ii, 207.
                        It must have been unfortunate to have a prescription of such value in
                            controversy, but the authorities are not agreed as to its ingredients.
                            Moss from the skull of a dead man, ari derelicta, was,
                            however, a permanent element. Bacon gives some account of one
                            prescription in his Natural History, section 998. But John Baptist Porta
                            has the prescription given by Paracelsus to the Emperor Maximilian, and
                            received through a courtier by Porta. I give it in English: Two ounces
                            of skull moss, as above; of human flesh, the same; of mummy (a liquor
                            reported to be distilled from dead bodies) and of human blood, each half
                            an ounce; of linseed oil, turpentine, and Armenian bole, each one
                            ouncepound all together in mortar. Porta's Magia Naturalis, liber viii,
                            caput xii. According to Porta, the weapon was left lying in the
                            ointment. In the text I have followed a different prescription given in
                            Bacon's Natural History. In the selection of ingredients  for this preparation the mystical doctrine
                            of curing by similitude is manifest.
                                Note 12, Page 59.
                            
                        
                        "The operation of this ointment," says the author of a famous
                            pharmacopoeia, in 1641, "is by the identity or sameness of the Balsamick
                            spirit, which is the same in a Man and his Blood; for there is no
                            difference but this, in a Man the Spirit actually lives, but in the
                            Blood it is coagulated." Shrder, quoted by Salmon, English Physician,
                            vii, 64.
                                Note 13, Page 60.
                             See also Sir Kenelm Digby's Sympathetic Powder generally, and a
                            theory of the action of this powder, or "Zaphyrian Salt," in Howell's
                            Familiar Letters.
                                Note 14, Page 60.
                             Jacob's edition, 645. An account of the cure of Howell by this
                            remedy is in supplement ii, 673, 674, and in Digby's A Late Discourse
                            touching the Cure of Wounds by the Powder of Sympathy, 6-II. The
                            sympathetic powder was used for all hmorrhages and even for other
                            diseases, according to Sprengel. Compare Sir K. Digby on the cure of
                            swelled feet in oxen, Discourse on Sympathetic Powder, 129-132. In the
                            time of their greatest vogue these cures were probably never sanctioned
                            by the strict Galenists. The subject was discussed before the Royal
                            Society in its infancy in a paper intituled Relations of Sympathetic
                            Cures and Trials. Sprat, 199.
                        Ambroise Par, the famous surgeon, had the wholesome scientific skepticism
                            which was wanting in Lord Bacon and most other philosophers of the time.
                            He denounced the weapon ointment as imposture. "Neither if any should
                            let me see the truth of such juggling by the events themselves and my
                            own eyes, would I therefore believe that it were done naturally and by
                            reason, but rather by charms and Magick." Par's works, old English
                            version, 39. Par also refused mummy, not knowing what it was made of.
                            Compare the debate in the Glasgow Synod over the curative power of the
                            famous Lee penny. Mitchell's Past in the Present, 159.
                        Queen Elizabeth's ambassador to the French court in 1596 was attended in
                            his illness by Lorrayne, a physician of the famous faculty of
                            Montpellier, and another. "They gave him Confectio Alcarmas compounded
                            of musk, amber, gold, pearl, and unicorn's horn," ingredients whose
                            virtues seem to have been deduced from their rarity and costliness. The
                            confectio alkermes, an Arabic remedy, varied in its ingredients. The
                            amber was ambergris. See the formula in the Amsterdam Pharmacopia of
                            1636, p. 61, and that in the London Dispensatory as quoted and  discussed in Culpepper's Physitian's
                            Library, 1675. The Arabic form of the confection appears to have been
                            less complicated. In the well-known pharmaceutical work of Mesue the
                            youngerJohn son of Mesue, son of Mech, son of Hely, son of Abdella, King
                            of Damascusthe ingredients in this "confectione alkermes" are fewer, and
                            there are no pearls or ambergris. The costly elements are "good gold,"
                            "good musk," and lapis lazuli. My copy of this work is called Mesue
                            Vulgare, perhaps because it is in Italian. It bears date Venice, 1493,
                            and must have been one of the earliest of printed medical works. See K.
                            Sprengel, vol. ii, 361-364, on Mesue the younger. On the tendency to
                            expensive remedies, compare Howell's Familiar Letters, 45. "More
                            operativ then Bezar, of more virtue then Potable Gold or the Elixir of
                            Amber." In Molire's Mdecin Malgr Lui, acte iii, scene 2, Sganarelle
                            speaks of a medical preparation: "Oui, c'est un fromage prpar, o il
                            entre de l'or, du corail, et des perles, et quantit des autres choses
                            prcieuses." An English confection described by Bassompierre may have
                            been the confectio alkermes spoken of above: "A pie of ambergrease
                            magesterial, of pearl, musk," etc. Bassompierre's Embassy, 36. The
                            bezoar-dick powder magisterial of the London Dispensatory contained
                            sapphire, ruby, jacinth, emerald, pearls, unicorn's horn, Oriental and
                            American bezoar, musk, ambergris, bone of a stag's heart, kermes, and
                            sixteen other ingredients.
                                Note 15, Page 61.
                             "I am afraid to look upon it," says Culpepper. "'Tis a great
                            cordial to revive the Body, but it will bring the purse into a
                            consumption."
                        The application of a fowl freshly cut open, to cure erysipelas and other
                            diseases, has been practiced in the valley of the Ohio and probably
                            elsewhere within memory. Lorrayne, of the famous faculty of Montpellier,
                            in his treatment of the English ambassador referred to above, made use
                            of "pigeons applied to his side, and all other means that art could
                            devise sufficient to expel the strongest poison and he be not bewicht
                            withal." MSS. at Hatfield House, vi, 112. Manuscripts Commission. "I
                            never heard of but one person bitten in Pennsylvania and New Jersey with
                            the Rattlesnake," says Budd, "and he was helpt of it by two chickens
                            slit assunder and apply'd to the place, which drew out the Poyson."
                            Gowan's edition, p. 71.
                        Gold is said by the alchemist to have its origin in the sun. It is called
                            "the under sun," and "an earthly sun endowed by God with an incredible
                            potency, for in it are included all vegetable, animal, and mineral
                            virtues." Potable gold is the "tincture of 
                            the sun,"and the enthusiastic Glauber talks of "partaking of the fruit
                            of the Sun tree,"Compare Phaedro and Glauber passim. A
                            large volume would not be sufficient to recount all the virtues of this
                            powerful remedy, in Glauber's opinion. Compare Evelyn's Diary, i, 271.
                        The curious and scientific reader may follow if he can the process for
                            making potable gold, the "True tincture of the Sun,"in the various works
                            of Glauber, or in De Via Universali he may learn to get both potable
                            gold and the philosopher's stone by "the dry process"or by "the wet
                                process.
                                Note 16, Page 61.
                            "He may get directions for making the tincture in Glauber's De
                            Auri Tinctura sive Auro Potabili, a German work with a Latin title,
                            dated 1652. Or he may read the Panace Hermetic seu Medicin Universalis
                            of Johann Gerhard, 1640; but he will find the "most secret mode of
                            compounding the Universal Medicine" in the Arcamun Lullia-num. There is
                            a rare tractate, Vom Stein der Weisen, written in the middle of the
                            sixteenth century, by Phaedro von Rodach. These and others are before
                            me, but, after some wearying of the mind with esoteric phrases in a
                            compound of old German and Latin, I prefer to leave the question of the
                            actual constitution of the most potent universal remedy to special
                            investigators. Fons-sagrives, in the Dictionnaire Encyclopdique des
                            Sciences Mdicales, under the word "Or,"says that a preparation of
                            mercury and chloride of gold constituted the so-called potable gold of
                            the seventeenth centuryI do not know on what authority. I am in some
                            doubt whether, after all the complicated hugger-mugger, the alchemists
                            got any gold in their final decoctions. According to Phaedro, it was not
                            so much gold they sought as the subtile spirit of gold that freed men
                            and metals from impurities. Glauber, in his De Auri Tinctura, 1652, took
                            pains to explain how the true could be known from the false and
                            sophisticated potable gold, some of which was nothing but colored water,
                            p. 24. Angelus Sala, though of the Paracelsian school, ridiculed the
                            notion of drinkable gold, and declared that fulminating gold
                            (knall-gold) was the only preparation of that metal that had ever been
                            made. Sprengel, Geschichte der Arzneikunde, iv, 557. It has been
                            conjectured that some of the so-called potable gold offered for sale was
                            merely a preparation of mercury. The two metals were allied, in the
                            fancy of the time. In the Ehralter Ritterkrieg Gold calls Mercury "Mein
                            Bruder Mercuric," and yet says that mercury was the female and gold the
                            male. Salmon's English Physician, p. 10, has two recipes for making
                            tincture of gold, one  with, the other
                            without mercury.
                                Note 17, Page 61.
                             More than one writer intimates that there is as much gold left
                            after the liquid essence is drawn off. "Aurum decoctione non atteritur,"
                            says Lemnius. But the mere looking at gold coins or at rings, especially
                            if adorned with "stones and lovely gems," recreated the eyes and heart,
                            and a man might be brought to himself when in a collapse by applying
                            gold and saffron to the region of the heart with the third finger of the
                            left hand. Lemnius, Occvltis Natur Miraculis, 309, 310.
                        An English manuscript in my possession in the handwriting of the
                            seventeenth century gives many directions for alchemical processes to
                            attain the "quintessence" so much sought.
                                Note 18, Page 62.
                             Some of these had to be conducted in the earth. Under the title
                            The Essence of wine whereby to Dissolue Gold this occurs: "To the
                            Essence of wine twice circulated (as is elsewhere taught), add Gold
                            & Sett it in digestion in Sand wth a Lamp For 3 months &
                            yu shall finde the Gold dissolued but not irreducibly, never the lesse a
                            quarter of a Spoonfull given at a time to a dying man, tho he be
                            insensible, it will restore him half an hour to perfect sence, as ever
                            he was in all his life."
                        The library of Winthrop the younger consisted of more than a thousand
                            volumes. The fraction of it now in the Society Library in New York is
                            less than half. Among these is Hercules Chymicus sive Aurum Potabile,
                            1641, and Traicte de la Vraye Unique Grand et Universelle Mdecine des
                            Anciens, dite des Recens, Or Potabile, 1633. There was also Glauber's
                            Latin Treatise of 1658 on Potable Gold. These were new books. The
                            revival of interest in potable gold in the seventeenth century awakened
                            opposition. Burton, in his Anatomy of Melancholy, says: "Some take it
                            upon them to cure all maladies by one medicine severally applyed, as
                            that Panacea, Aurum potabile, so much controverted in these days." In
                            1403 an English statute had been passed making it felony to "use any
                            craft of multiplication" to increase the quantity of gold and silver.
                            Statutes at Large, ii, 448. Robert Boyle, in the seventeenth century, in
                            spite of his having written The Sceptical Chemist, thought he had
                            discovered the forgotten secret of the fifteenth century, but he did not
                            print his discovery. Sir Isaac Newton wrote to the Royal Society in
                            praise of Boyle's reticence, fearing that the full disclosure of what
                            the hermetics knew was "not to be communicated without immense damage to
                            the world" In 1689, however, Boyle secured the repeal of the statute
                            forbidding the making of gold. Thus did the dark  shadow of medival credulity still fall upon the most
                            enlightened minds.
                                Note 19, Page 64.
                             Compare Chalmer's Dictionary of Biography, vi, 348, 349.
                        The multitudinousness of ancient compounds was perhaps a trait derived
                            from primitive medicine.
                                Note 20, Page 65.
                             The Iroquois had a sort of theriac, a cure for all bodily
                            injuries, made from the dried and pulverized skin of every known bird,
                            beast, and fish. Erminnie A. Smith, in Powell's Second Bureau of
                            Ethnology Report, 73.
                        "In that country [Java] but very seldome there grows a Stone in the
                            Stomach of a Porkapine, called Pedro Porco: of whose virtue there are
                            large discriptions: and the Hollanders are now so fond that I have seen
                            400 dollars of 8/8 given for one no bigger than a Pidgeon's Egg. There
                            is sophistication as well in that as in the Bezoar, Musk, &c.,
                            and every day new falsehood." Sir P. Vernatti, in Sprat's Royal Society,
                            171. There was exhibited in the University of Leyden "the home of a goat
                            in whosse ventrikle the bezar stone is found." Marmaduke Rawdon, Camden
                            Society, 105. Compare the accounts in Monardes and Acosta and the
                            discussion in Castrillo's Magia Natural, last chapter. Castrillo calls
                            the bezoar "Regna de los Venenos," and says that it cured pestiferous
                            fevers and other diseases caused by melancholy humors. Joannes Juvenis,
                            in his essay De Medicamentis Bezoardicis, published in Antwerp in the
                            latter part of the sixteenth century, treats the bezoar very mystically.
                            A disease of an occult and divine origindivinus et Secretus morbuslike
                            the plague, exacts a medicine of a heavenly and concealed faculty, and,
                            as he said, with a blind and hidden potency. The plague, he says, "is a
                            mysterious disease of the heart caught by inhalation from poison
                            dispersed in the air by a malign conjunction of the planets." It
                            requires a bezoardic remedy. Under this head he includes alexipharmical
                            mixtures and remedies whose supposed virtues have no rational basis, as
                            well as amulets. He describes an amulet of gold, silver, and arsenic
                            made into the shape of a heart and worn next that organ by Pope Adrian,
                            and he recommends the wearing of six precious stones and some briliant
                            pearls in finger rings or about the neck. They are to be requently
                            looked on, for in them resides "the hidden bezoar" against all poisons
                            and the plague. There is here the sense of alexipharmical in the word
                            bezoar. Compare the citations of Adams in Paulus gineta, iii, 247.
                            Beguin's lmens de Chymie, edited by Lucas de Roy, 1632, describes seven
                            kinds of "bezoart"to wit, mineral, solar, lunar, martial, jovial,
                            metallic,  and solar of Harthmannus.
                                Note 21, Page 66.
                             None of these have anything to do with the bezoar stone. Par
                            says that it is called by the Arabians bedezabar. But
                            he quotes Garcias ab Horto as saying that the goat is called pazain, wherefore the stone should be called Pazar. Par's (Parey's) works in English, book xxi,
                            chap, xxxvi.
                        The colonists were cut off by distance from that most potent remedy for
                            king's evil, the royal touch, by which thousands of English people were
                            healed, and the administration of which the Church of England sanctioned
                            by a form of prayer.
                                Note 22, Page 68.
                             See in Sparrow's Collection, 1671. In 1684 six or seven people
                            were literally crushed to death in the mad eagerness of the crowd to
                            secure the blessing of the royal touch. Evelyn's Diary, 571. It is
                            remarked by Aubrey with his wonted innocency that "whether our kings
                            were of the house of York or Lancaster" the touch "did the cure (i. e.)
                            for the most part." Worse than all, in the time of Monmouth's rebellion,
                            the illegitimate touch of the pretender cured some of his believing
                            partisans. Castrillo, the Spanish Jesuit, declared in 1649 that the
                            intercessions of Joseph of Arimathea, the first missionary to England,
                            had secured to its monarchs "el cura de la gota." The Spanish kings, on
                            the other hand, had the gift of exorcism. "Los reges de Espaa tienen
                            gracia de ahuyentor demonios por auer sus antecessores professado la
                            propagacion de la F," etc. Magia Natural, folio 81. The miraculous touch
                            of the English kings was believed to date from the Confessor. The touch
                            of a seventh son"a seventh son and no daughter between, and in pure
                            wedlock"was almost as good as the king's perhaps. Aubrey's Miscellanies,
                            fourth edition, 124, 125. Seventh sons were to be reached in America
                            sometimes. Faith in the virtue of their touch is not yet quite extinct
                            in America or in England. Compare Diary of Walter Yonge, 13, note. In
                            1688 a man afflicted with ulcers petitioned the Governor of
                            Massachusetts to give him a brief to solicit money in Massachusetts to
                            defray the expense of a trip to England to crave the royal touch.
                            Green's Medicine in Massachusetts, 48.
                        I am indebted to Miss S. F. Price, the well-known botanist of Bowling
                            Green, Ky., for technical information regarding dittany. The authorities
                            on dittany are too numerous for citation. Virgil perpetuated the memory
                            of the wild goats of Candia, and old medical books continued to refer to
                            them. See Par's works in English, 1600, p. 41.
                        
                        As early as 1568 Andr Thevet's New found World or Antarctike appeared in
                            an English version.
                                Note 23, page 68.
                             Although quite vague, and on many accounts untrustworthy, it
                            probably awakened curiosity regarding the medicinal value of American
                            plants. The far more significant and much-esteemed work of Monardes, a
                            Spanish physician, was probably read in England on its first appearance
                            in Spanish in 1565.
                                Note 24, page 69.
                             Fourteen years later, in 1577, the first English edition was
                            issued, and its influence can be traced in the account which Hariot gave
                            of Virginia in De Bry. Through Monardes the English public first became
                            familiar with the extraordinary medicinal virtues attributed to tobacco,
                            and in his pages sarsaparilla and sassafras, strongholds of quackery to
                            this day, were first made known to a public that soon became enamored of
                            two plants which had the virtue of innocuousness.
                                Note 25, page 71.
                             In the estimation of Monardes the "leaves, plants, herbs, roots,
                            blossoms, gums, fruits, seeds, liquors, and stones of great medicinal
                            virtues" which had come from America were of as much greater value than
                            all other wealth of the New World as "bodily health is worth more than
                            temporal good." First Spanish edition, 1565, p. 3.
                        Books of reference and most writers on Virginia confound John Clayton,
                            author of various papers in the Transactions of the Royal Society, with
                            Clayton the botanist, whose observations in the eighteenth century
                            supplied the foundation for the Flora Virginica of
                            Gronovius. A writer in the National Dictionary of Biography, with
                            bibliographical detail, ascribes all the writings of John Clayton, the
                            seventeenth century clergyman, to John Clayton the botanist in the
                            eighteenth century, making the latter the precocious author of papers
                            published five years before the date of his birth as given in the same
                            work. John Clayton, the parson, was also the author of a posthumous
                            paper in volume xli of the Transactions of the Royal Society. Neill
                            calls him "the parson of Jamestown," but, so far as I know, without any
                            authority.
                        I am unable to identify the little creatures found on oak leaves which
                            proved a remedy in some diseases when worn about the neck in taffetie
                            bags by New England women. Josselyn's Two Voyages, 63. Increase Mather
                            gives a popular cure for ague in New England, aimed at its periodicity.
                            Five pieces of bread having letters written on them were given into the
                            custody of the patient, who was to write in succession on one of these
                                 each day the word kalend (ant) for
                            five days.
                                Note 26, page 72.
                             Toothache was cured in Boston by giving a sealed piece of paper
                            on which was written, "In nomine Patris, Filii, et Spiritus Sancti,
                            preserve thy servant," etc.
                                Note 27, page 72.
                             Illustrious Providences, 185.
                                Note 28, page 73.
                             In Queen Elizabeth's time there was a curious remedy, which is
                            alluded to as follows:
                        
                            Gellia wore a velvet mastick-patch
                            Upon her temples when no tooth did ach.
                        
                        Hall's Satires, vi, i.
                        A belief in the value of perfumes for sickness, and especially for the
                            plague, prevailed in Elizabeth's reign.
                                Note 29, page 74.
                             See Bullein's Dialogue against the Fever Pestilence, passim, and the remark of Mulcaster on perfumes: "It
                            is wonderful that is written and strange that we see, what is wrought
                            thereby in nature of Physick, for the remedying of some desperate
                            diseases." Positions, 37. I have not chanced to note anything of the
                            sort in the seventeenth century writers, whose nostrums were far from
                            sweet-smelling.
                        The curious reader may consult on the use of animal substances the
                            regular pharmacopias of the time. See also such works as Emanuel Knig's
                            Regnum Animale, and in particular his chapter De Insectorum in Medecina
                            utilitatibus. Culpepper's Commentary on the London Dispensatory, 1675,
                            contains lists of these animal substances in undisguised English. Cotton
                            Mather said of Wait Winthrop, the third of the family to practice
                            medicine on his neighbors, that he turned nearly all Nature to medicine:
                        Et pene omnem Naturam fecit Medicam.
                        Clayton, in the Transactions of the Royal Society for 1687, xli, 149,
                            describes the Indian method of curing wounds by sucking them and then
                            using the mouth as a syringe to inject a biting decoction. Instead of
                            cupping, the savages cauterized with lighted punk.
                        The practice of surgeons was not held in high esteem in England in the
                            sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. John Halle, in the preface to
                            Lanfranke's Chirurgerie, 1565, says: "Whereas there is one Chirurgien
                            that was apprentice to his arte, or one phisicien that hath trauayled in
                            the true Studie and Exercise of Phisique, there are tenne that are
                            presumptious Smearers, Smaterers, or Abusers of the same, yea, Smythes,
                            Cutlers, Carters, Coblers, Copers, Coriars of lether, Carpenters, and a
                            great rable of women, which forsake their handle Craftes and for filthy
                            lucre  abuse Phisick and Chirurgerie."
                            After lauding the medical profession, Peacham says: "I here intend no
                            common Chirurgians, Mountebanks, unlettered Empericks, and women-Doctors
                            whose practice is infamous, Mechanick, and base." Compleat Gentleman,
                                11.
                                Note 30, page 76.
                             See in Malgaine's Introduction to Par's works, pp. 124 and 138
                            ff., decrees and ordinances for the regulation of barber-surgeons in the
                            middle ages, with an account of the struggle of the surgeons to abase
                            the barbers. In England matters had come to such a pass in the sixteenth
                            century that Sir H. Gilbert, in his Queen Elizabeth's Achademy, says
                            that "Chirurgie is not now to be learned in any other place then in a
                            Barbors Shoppe." To the practice of barbers, and surgeons little better,
                            the colonists were usually shut up by circumstances. One early Virginia
                            surgeon was a Dutch bond servant. A library consisting of The Surgeon's
                            Mate or of Barrough's Method of Phisicke, rarely of several books, gave
                            the suffering what comfort can be had from quackery that is self-reliant
                            from mere ignorance.
                        Crocus Metallorum, the favorite Virginia remedy, was an officinal
                            preparation used in several formul by Sydenham at that time. The editor
                            of the works of Sydenham (Sydenham Opera Omnia, 1844) makes it
                            "Antimonii Sesquioxyd cum Antimon. Sequisulphur." It was emetic. See
                            Sydenham's Epistle I, works in English, ii, 19. It was prepared
                            according to the London Dispensatory by calcining together equal parts
                            of antimony and saltpeter. On the use of sulphuret of antimony by the
                            Jews, Greeks, Romans, and Arabs, see an interesting note in Adams's
                            Paulus gineta, iii, 356. The curious reader may also consult Basil
                            Valentine, p. 37, who makes antimony "one of the seven wonders of the
                            world." The tract Von den Particular Vnd Vniversal-Tincturen, appended
                            to the Triumph Wagen, Thlden's issue, 1624, contains a section "De
                            Crocis Metallorum, et eorum Salibus," written in alchemical style.
                            Venice treacle was the world-famed theriac, which, according to the
                            English formula, contained about sixty-five ingredients, and was given
                            as a universal antidote. Gascoin's powder was the compound powder of
                            calcined crab's claws, so called. I do not know what it was, but not
                            literal crab's claws. Snakeroot is the only American remedy in the list,
                            and this had been accepted in Europe. Evidently the Virginia doctors
                            were old-fashioned, and, according to their slender knowledge, Galenist.
                            Medicines of the other school and simples were perhaps used in domestic
                            and irregular practice.
                        
                        Forsyth's Antiquary's Portfolio, i, 36, has the broad statement that in
                            the Heptarchy and to the time of Richard II physic was in the hands of
                            old women and the clergy.
                                Note 31, page 78.
                             It was taught in the nunneries to girls before the Reformation
                            as a womanly accomplishment, ibid., 238. The sense of its
                            appropriateness to women, and the habit of prescription by accomplished
                            women, survived in the seventeenth century and later. Clayton said of
                            the Indians in 1687, "Every one according to his skill is a doctor (as
                            some women are in England)." Transactions of the Royal Society, xli,
                            143. Tiraboschi, in his Storia della Litteratura Italiana, iii, lib. iv,
                            sect. ii, cites from Odericus Vitalis a passage implying that the most
                            skillful physician in the world-famous school of Salerno in 1059 was a
                            woman. Of Rodolfo he says: "Nella medecina ancora egli era cosi versato,
                            the in Salerno non si trovo chi es uqualiasse fuor di una dotta
                            matrons." This is supposed to refer to Trotula, some of whose writings
                            have come down to our time. The wording of the decree of 1281 cited in
                            Astruc's Histoire de la Facult de Mdecine de Montpellier, p. 20, is
                            considered by Malgaigne to imply the habitual practice of medicine by
                            women in the middle ages. In this decree Jacques "defend toutes
                            personnes tant aux Chrtiens qu'aux Juifs," to practice without degrees.
                            Compare Malgaigne's inference from this in his preface to uvres
                            d'Ambroise Par, but Malgaigne's reference to Astruc and his date are
                            both slightly inaccurate. On the women professors of the school of
                            Salerno, Henderson's pamphlet on that school and Ordronneaux's Code of
                            Health of Salerno. As late as 1691 Cotton Mather, in "Ornaments for the
                            Daughters of Zion," mentions "chirurgery" as an appropriate study for
                            women. It is said that in colonial New Jersey women engrossed a
                            considerable share of the medical art, such as it was. This is no doubt
                            true of all the colonies.
                    
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER THE THIRD.
                    MOTHER ENGLISH, FOLK-SPEECH, FOLK-LORE, AND LITERATURE.
                    
                        I.
                        
                            
                                CHAP. III.
                            AT the beginning of English emigration to
                            America the language was the narrow speech of an island people not much
                            given to foreign enterprise.
                                The language of the time.
                             This stay-at-home tongue was very different from the
                            comprehensive English spoken now in many climes and antipodal countries,
                            and heard more world-widely than any other language since speech
                                began.
                                Note 1.
                             It is the implement of two most powerful, adventurous, and
                            versatile peoples. Then it was held in contempt of scholars, who
                            preferred to use imperial Latin, which made the learned men of Europe
                            one nation and distinguished them from the vulgar. Long after the
                            religious unity of the Western world had ceased, the Roman Empire
                            dominated the language of philosophy and law and religion. English was
                            an insular speech, but it was not by any means the language of the whole
                                island.
                                Diary of W. Yonge, Camden Soc., p. xiv.
                             To the Scottish Highlanders and to the Welshmen it was a foreign
                            tongue; Cornishmen had violently opposed the Reformation mainly because
                            they would not endure to have their service read and their Bible printed
                            in English, to them a jargon  more
                            unintelligible than the Latin they had been wont to hear in church from
                                childhood.
                                Compare also Symonds's Diary, Camden Society.
                             Even in what may be called English England the language was
                            everywhere cleft into dialects and subdialects.
                                Note 2.
                             It was still a matter of discussion where standard English could
                            be found.
                                Puttenham's Arte of English Poesie, 1589.
                             The rugged forms of the shires north of the Trent were accounted
                            the purer English; there the language had absorbed a smaller number of
                            French and Latin words than it had in the south.
                                Note 3.
                             On the other hand, the speech of London and its environs was
                            preferred, because it was "more courtly and more current." This courtly
                            speech, the language of poetry and the playhouse and the forerunner of
                            our modern English, prevailed in the region that lay within about sixty
                            miles of London "and not much above." There were gentlemen in all the
                            shires that could "speak good Southerne," but most of the gentlemen and
                            men of learningthe "learned clarkes," as they were calledhabitually
                            spoke the dialects of the common people of their counties. Even the
                            "good Southerne" of the court was not yet fixed by rule, but was in a
                            state of flux. This gave an advantage to the writer of first-rate power;
                            he might select from the varied and ever-varying storehouse of common
                            speech, and even from homelier dialect sometimes, such vital words and
                            vivid proverbial phrases as fitted his thought. He could bend the yet
                            supple language to his purpose untrammeled by conventional restraint and
                            without fear of the grammarian. The language has never been more  fresh and effective than it was in the
                            hands of the masters of the Elizabethan time.
                                The exigency of English.
                             But the great body of writers, being men of mediocrity, found in
                            it no well-worn grooves through which commonplace utterance might flow
                            smoothly without expert guidance.
                                Puttenham's Arte of English Poesie, A. D. 1589. Arber's ed.,
                                158.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        II.
                        On the side of poetic and imaginative expression English had been
                            enriched before the sailing of the first Virginia emigrants, and it was
                            further enriched in the years immediately following, chiefly through the
                            drama and prose works in theology.
                                Note 4.
                             But almost the only refining and enlarging influence of that
                            time of literary activity that reached the speech of the common people,
                            to which class most of the emigrants belonged, was the authorized
                            translation of the Bible, which was published in 1611, and which by
                            degrees took the place of the older and ruder versions. The language may
                            have acquired something from the sea ventures of the time to Turkey and
                            Russia and the Spanish main. "Secretaries Marchaunts and trauailours"
                            were already introducing alien words, but England possessed little
                            foreign commerce and did not yet promise to take rank as a sea power.
                            The sudden demand upon this close-cabined island speech in the
                            seventeenth century for means to represent the endless objects, actions,
                            and experiences of the New World and of a widening commerce was one of
                            the most efficient forces for developing modern English.
                    
                    
                    
                        III.
                        A language carried into a new environment brings with it preconceived
                            notions not in harmony with the surroundings; the ideas that are
                            imbedded in our ordinary speech seem to us a part of the original
                            constitution of the universe, and the traditional notions associated
                            with common words serve to fortify local and national prejudice.
                                Misapprehensions of English.
                             In the wilderness of America English speech was a misfit; an
                            Indian chief, however squalid and beggarly, was forthwith translated
                            into a king; the stark-naked little squaw child Pocahontas, turning
                            herself into a wheel in imitation of the boys with whom she played at
                            Jamestown, bore in English the incongruous title of princess. We hear of
                            an "Indian king" in New Jersey who was hired to carry a traveler's
                            baggage; and after encountering many scrubby royalties, it is a relief
                            to find in New England one chief who was only a duke. The early adoption
                            into colonial speech of the discriminating Indian titleswerowance,
                            sachem, saga-more, and cockerouseand the application at last of the
                            generic English word chief, helped to dissipate a swarm of erroneous
                            notions. More specific terms were the result of fuller knowledge; the
                            compound bark house in which an "emperor," like Powhatan, dwelt as
                            co-tenant with numerous families of his wife's totem, ceased to be a
                            palace and became a wigwam. It was thus that English by degrees adjusted
                            itself to a new environment.
                    
                    
                    
                        IV.
                        The settler in America, like Adam in the new-made world, was called upon
                            to give names "to the fowl of the air and to every beast of the
                                field.
                                Naming the animals.
                            " This was done in some cases most naturally by descriptive
                            epithets, such as bluebird, mockingbird, catbird, canvas-back duck,
                            flying squirrel, black bear.
                                For example, Clayton, in Miscell. Curiosa, iii, 338.
                             But the newcomer was sure to think he recognized in the
                            primitive woods the plants and birds and beasts known or half known to
                            him in the Old World.
                                Comp. A Perfect Description of Va., 1649. Statutes of S.C., 1726.
                                    W. Bartram's Travels, 46.
                             American creatures thus got second-hand names from real or
                            supposed resemblances.
                                Perfect Descr. of Va., 1649, and Bullock's Va., 1649, p. 6.
                                    Joselyn, iii, Mass.
                             The bison became a buffalo; the plantigrade raccoon does duty in
                            some accounts as an ape or a monkey; the puma, as the largest American
                            cat, became a "lyon" in Virginia, a panther and a catamount in various
                            places, while it remained a "tyger" in South Carolina for more than a
                            hundred years.
                                Hist. Coll., iii, 278. Campanius, New Sweden, p. 41.
                             The ear of the homesick emigrant caught the melody of bird songs
                            that reminded him of the delicious vespers of the nightingale which he
                            was nevermore to hear. Various birds were thus brevetted with the name
                            of the European songster. In Virginia this substitute nightingale was
                            the voluble redbird, according to Clayton, though in earlier lists both
                            redbird and nightingale appear. In New England there were also so-called
                            nightingales "painted with orient colorsblack, white, blew, yellow,
                            green, and scarlet," according to Josselyn's multitudinous description.
                        
                        The Delaware region had its nightingale. The brown-throated song sparrow
                            is unhesitatingly identified with the nightingale to Europe by French
                            Canadians to this day.
                                The turkey.
                             With one accord English settlers north and south endowed a
                            migratory red-breasted thrush with the name and all the traditional
                            sentiment that belonged to the smaller and more domestic "robin
                            redbreast" of England. The mistake did not go unsuspected, for in some
                            northern regions there is an attempt to rectify it by calling the
                            Baltimore bird "the old-England robin," a name that misses the mark
                            again, but that from its form must have been set agoing in the earliest
                            colonial time.
                    
                    
                        V.
                        In popular thought at the period of American settlement every place
                            beyond the countries of Europe was a region of outer darkness dominated
                            by devils who were worshiped as deities. The typical infidel was the
                            Turk, the ancient foe of Christendom; an idol was therefore called a
                            mawmet, that is to say, a Mahomet, from a notion that the Arabian
                            prophet was a false god. It may have been from this general confounding
                            of all the world that lay without Christendom that some plants and
                            animals from the New World easily got the name of Turkey or Turkish
                            attached to them. The fowl we call by that name was in French a coq d Inde or Indian cock, whence the modern French
                                dinde and dindon. The confusion
                            between the East and  West Indies led no
                            doubt to the curious German name "Calcutta hen," though even in German
                            "Indian cocks and hens" appear.
                                Pennypacker's Historical Sketches, 188.
                             In England the turkey was sometimes called the Indish peacock or
                            the "peacock of Inde" in the sixteenth century, so that the peacock pies
                            on which judges and others were sometimes feasted at the time may have
                            been concocted of turkeys.
                                Note 5.
                             If the English name of turkey did not come from a general
                            disposition to trace all outlandish things to the home of the Eastern
                            infidel, it perhaps was borrowed from the bustard, with which the turkey
                            was supposed to be allied in the easy natural history of the time.
                                Note 6.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        VI.
                        Indian corn, an American plant in origin, cultivated throughout almost
                            the whole western hemisphere, was early called Turkish corn by the
                                Italians.
                                Indian corn and beans.
                             The name seems to have been transplanted from Italian into other
                            Continental languages, and in English speech it was also sometimes
                            Turkish wheat.
                                Lane to Walsingham.
                             Ralph Lane, Ralegh's commander in North Carolina, calls it
                            "Gynneye wheat.
                                Sainsbury's Calendar, i, 4.
                            " From the time of Acosta there have been those who have sought
                            with futile ingenuity to deduce an Oriental origin for maize, founding
                            their argument mainly on the blunder in the Italian name.
                                Acosta, Hist. Nat., etc., I. iv, chap. xvi.
                             This prolific mistake may have sprung from a confusion of maize
                            with buckwheat, which on account of its Asiatic origin bore the name of
                            Saracen corn.
                                Note 7.
                             Maize,  as another sort of coarse
                            grain, was also called Saracen corn, but usually Turkish corn.
                                Acosta, as above.
                             Other nations were wont in the sixteenth century to take
                            fashions of all sorts from Italy, and the name there given to maize
                            became common.
                                Comp. also Campanius, New Sweden.
                             Even the kidney bean, which was one of the most valued
                            contributions of the American Indians to European food products, was
                            called the Turkish bean, for no other reason perhaps than that it twined
                            about the so-called Turkish corn.
                                Note 8.
                             It was mistakenly identified with the "Turkish garavance," the
                            chick pea.
                                MS. Bk. of Instructions, Nov. 11, 1621.
                             The word maize did not come into use in the English colonies; a
                            letter of the Virginia Company calls the plant "maes" and "mace"; but
                            maize remains to-day only a book word in America.
                                Comp. E. Eland's Newe Brittaine, 1651.
                             In 1651 a Virginia writer calls the plant Indian wheat, and
                            later it appears as Virginia wheat.
                                Rev. John Clayton to Royal Society, 1688, in Force, iii, 20.
                             It gradually came to be called in all the colonies Indian corn,
                            to distinguish it from other cereals.
                                Comp. John Hull's Diary, 221.
                             The natural abridgment of the word in popular use has made the
                            generic word corn stand for a particular kind of corn unknown in
                                England.
                                Note 9.
                             In New England, where the phrase English corn long survived, the
                            other end of the word was dropped, and "Indian" very early came to stand
                            for maize even after it had been ground and cooked. Grotesque
                            combinations like "fried Indian" have lingered in dialect to our time.
                            The season for reaping the familiar English grains was called by the
                            emigrants the English harvest, the later ingathering of maize was the
                            Indian harvest. From this distinction, perhaps,  came the name Indian summer for the season of balmy
                            weather that befalls in the autumn when a halcyon stillness pervades the
                            hazy air and the whole landscape lies enchanted.
                                The parts of maize and dishes made from it.
                             The name was probably of merely agricultural origin, but is
                            nowadays full of poetic associations with the delicious season and a
                            vanished people.
                                Virginia Britannia, p. 117.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        VII.
                        Indian corn became the staple food product of the colonists, and English
                            was put to all its makeshifts to find names for its parts and products
                            and the novel processes attending its culture and uses. Stalk, blade,
                            and ear were easily transferred from other sorts of corn, but for the
                            blossoms the words silk and tassel were felicitous tropes. The envelope
                            of the ear gave trouble. Megapolensis, an early Dutch writer, calls the
                            husks "leaves" Strachey, in speaking of "a kind of wheat" which the
                            Indians call "poketawes," describes the ears as growing each "with a
                            great hose or pill about it." The Virginians applied an English dialect
                            word, "shuck," to the "hose" about the ear, the New England colonist
                            adopted husk, and in the extreme South the infelicitous phrase "corn
                            trash" came into use, and all three are still living. Husk, which in New
                            England expressed the outer covering of the ear, was in the middle and
                            in some southern regions quite as fittingly given to the bran, the
                            covering of the grain, while in certain regions of Virginia the same
                            word, usually pronounced  "huss," meant
                            the cob on which the grains grew; nor is this use yet obsolete.
                                Comp. Mather's Illustrious Providences, 113, ed. 1850.
                             This cob was at first called "the coare of the ear," the word
                            cob was in New England at first used for the whole ear, as it was in
                            English dialect for ears of wheat or barley.
                                Smith's Oxford Tract of 1612.
                             It has at last come to mean in America the spike on which the
                            grains stand.
                                Compare Sot-weed Factor, 1708.
                             In all this effort of the English language to stretch its
                            vocabulary to embrace the new plant and its parts it strangely disdained
                            to borrow a word from the Indian tongues.
                                Shea's reprint, 5.
                             But when we come to the dishes prepared from maize, the Indian
                            words incorporated in our speech are living witnesses to the adoption of
                            aboriginal cookery.
                                Note 10.
                             Bread was called ponap in the dialect of the James River
                            Indians; from this word we get "pone," variously applied in American
                            English to several sorts of maize bread.
                                American animals.
                             Ustatahamen, a name for the grits or coarser parts of the
                            crushed corn, gives us the word hominy.
                                Tract of 1612,
                             Samp, supawn, succotash are Indian dishes which brought their
                            ancient names with them as a convenient mode of distinguishing them from
                            food preparations of other cereals.
                    
                    
                        VIII.
                        The animals were not easily fitted with English titles; their skins and
                            flesh were objects of trade between the two races, and many kept a
                            semblance of their ancient names. The Virginia mussascus of Captain
                            Smith is the Civet-scented musquash smelling ever, of
                            New England poetry, and his skin appears by  this title in the dull prose of English customs returns.
                                Wood's Prospect.
                             A Pennsylvania form, "musquasses," appears to be midway between
                            the Virginia and the New England names.
                                Claypole's MS. Letters. Penn Hist. Society. British Empire, i,
                                    187.
                             With a gravitation toward English forms the word is musquagh in
                            Oldmixon, but it changed more swiftly in America; it was sometimes
                            muscat, a name given to the civet, and as early as 1649 it was "a muske
                            Rat so-called for his great sweetnesse and shape," as though the Indian
                            original had been forgotten.
                                Purchase, 945.
                             As early as 1688 Clayton called it mush-rat, a form still
                            generally used in rustic speech.
                                Perfect Description of Va.
                             Other Indian words put on bits of English toggery; match-core
                            was a word in Algonkin dialects meaning a deerskin.
                                Clayton to Royal Society.
                             When the Indian accepted a colored blanket from the white man in
                            exchange for his matchcore, he gave the same name to his blanket.
                                Compare Smith's Tract of 1612.
                             The colonial trader was impelled to put a semblance of sense
                            into the word by calling it match-coat, and the word in this form was
                            widely used by the colonists.
                                Note 11.
                             Copyists of old handwriting, not suspecting that it was only a
                            blanket, have made it watch-coat, and in this misleading form it will
                            puzzle posterity in Irving's prose. The general repulsion to the use of
                            aboriginal words was no doubt increased by the polysyllabic prolixity of
                            the agglutinated vocables that gave stateliness to the intervals of
                            utterance with which a savage broke the monotony of his native
                            taciturnity. Indian words were unhandy vehicles for the ideas of a
                            colloquial and gossiping race. Ustatahamen  had to be reduced to hominy to match the corresponding English word
                            furmity, applied at first to corn.
                                Note 12.
                             Pawscohicora was split through the middle to get the English
                            word hickory, and the last syllable of isquontersquash was all that
                            could be transplanted into New England English.
                                Wood's N. E. Prospect, 58.
                             Chechinquamen was a hard nut in English mouths until the
                            Virginians made it chinkapin.
                                Smith's Tract, 1612.
                             Wampumpeak, the Indian name for white shell beads used for
                            money, was divided; wampum passed current in one region, and peak or
                            peague in another.
                                See example in Ames's Almanac, 1730.
                             The New York Dutch called the shell money sewant from another
                            Indian word, while Virginia shell beads were known as roenoke from the
                            Indian rawrenock.
                                E. g., Sotweed Factor, 19.
                             In the course of traffic and friendship between the two races a
                            sort of pidgin English was formed as a medium, a half-breed speech only
                            partly intelligible nowadays.
                                Note 13.
                             Certain words of greeting, like "netop," friend, came into
                            temporary use among the colonists along with honorary titles of
                            leadership, such as the "cockerouse" of Maryland and Virginia, and the
                            "mugwump" of parts of New England. Much of it was local and temporary,
                            and the residuum is small. To-day the English language, with the
                            tolerance of a cosmopolitan, begs or borrows from barbarous sources the
                            world over, but the home-bred speech of the period of American
                            settlement seems to have cherished fastidious prejudices against foreign
                            words without Latin ancestry to back them.
                    
                    
                    
                        IX.
                        The absence of a well-established standard for English speech in the
                            early Stuart period produced confusion in the colonies.
                                English dialects.
                             Travel was not frequent between the several parts of England,
                            and local feeling had the intensity of patriotism.
                                Table-talk, 161.
                             Selden tells us that societies of men from a particular shire
                            were formed in London.
                                Doc. Hist. of N. Y., i, 678.
                             The men from a given county might thus allay the homesickness of
                            their exile by meeting those who held to the same customs and sauced
                            their speech with the same local words and accents.
                                Dorch. Records, 1633, p. 3.
                             When an American region, larger or smaller, was settled by a
                            body of emigrants from the same English neighborhood, many of the words
                            and much of the twang of their ancient dialect would survive for
                                generations.
                                Private letter from Dr. S. A. Green.
                             We have here a probable explanation of a marked difference of
                            speech between two adjacent communities. John Lyon Gardiner recorded, in
                            1798, that on Long Island an Easthampton man might be known from a
                            Southampton man "as well as a native of Kent may be distinguished from a
                            Yorkshire man." The two towns adjoin and the two communities had been
                            living side by side for more than a hundred and fifty years when this
                            wide difference of speech was found still persisting. In Dorchester,
                            Massachusetts, the land measures retained a local English trait; one
                            finds the old Dorsetshire measure of a goad in the early records. In
                            Groton there are heard to this day "some little expressions  and quaint uses of words "not known
                            twenty-five miles away.
                                Note 14.
                             In yet another Massachusetts town such unusual survivals as
                            "dafter" for daughter have been noted in recent years.
                                Register of Christ's Ch. Parish, Middlesex Co., Va.
                             In some regions the English dialects must have been neutralized
                            by interference; there were many colonial families in which the mother
                            tongue varied from the father's speech.
                                American dialect.
                             In a single Virginia parish register between 1660 and 1670
                            emigrants from Yorkshire, on the one hand, and from Kent and Surrey, on
                            the other, rub shoulders with men and women from the midland of
                                England.
                                Note 15.
                             Now and then the word "native" against a name in the marriage
                            register marks the young Virginian bred in this babellian confusion of
                            English diversities. It is hard to say how his speech would be affected
                            by the varieties of vocabulary and the contrarieties of pronunciation
                            about him. The peculiarities known in his descendants of to-day as
                            Americanisms, or localisms, he might readily have borrowed from both
                            ends of England without leaving his parish, possibly without leaving his
                            own doorstone.
                    
                    
                        X.
                        American rustic lingoes show innumerable expressions detached from the
                            ancient dialects and rearranged not by hazard, but as the result of
                            influences too obscure to be traced. There have been natural selection,
                            modification by intermingling, and changes of use produced by
                            environment; no  English dialect has
                            bodily survived removal.
                                Poole's Dialect of Forth and Bargy.
                             But the English origin of our rustic words and accents is
                            generally evident. For example, the twang longest associated with
                            America by dialect writers is the distortion of certain words
                            imperfectly represented in the spelling of heouse, teown, and keow, for
                            house, town, and cow. Franklin long ago set down in Poor Richard's
                            Almanac his observation that the residents of Connecticut and Cape May
                            called a cow a keow "by a certain involuntary twist at the root of the
                            tongue." This crescendo vowel is the recognized tag of the burlesque
                            Yankee of the stage and comic literature. Its feline drawl may yet be
                            caught in a state of nature in some of the mountain districts of New
                            England, but it also exists far to the southward. There are London small
                            shopkeepers who, along with a mock Latin "dies" for days, have an
                            unmistakable mew in "heouse" and "teown" and "abeout." There is nothing
                            in English dialect more evidently ancient, for it was a trait of the
                            archaic patois of a portion of County Wexford, in Ireland, which was
                            settled by a colony of English people who crossed St. George's Channel
                            in the middle ages under Strongbow, full two hundred years before
                            Chaucer's Canterbury Tales were written. These medival emigrants took
                            out of England with them in A. D. 1169 and a little later such Yankee
                            forms as "greoune" for ground, "pleough" for plow, and "teown" for town.
                            They had other words found in American rustic dialects so widely
                            distributed  as not to be local, such as
                            "kotch" for caught, "kiver" for cover, "man" for husband.
                                Note 16.
                             These and other words were transplanted from England to America
                            four or five hundred years after the species had taken root in
                                Ireland.
                                MS. in my possession.
                             Take another of the many examples of tough survival.
                                Negro speech.
                             The farmer in some parts of northern New York and elsewhere
                            calls a fraction of a wagon load a jag. The word was colonial; in a
                            diary of 1763 a New England parson takes pains to set down among the
                            small doings of his farm that he had "gott in 2 jaggs of Rowens." This
                            and other bits of American dialect can be explained only by going to the
                            mother country. In Yorkshire some primitive modes of transportation
                            still survive. The pack horse that climbs the steep moor side laden with
                            coals for the limekilns in the mountains that overlook the Dale of the
                            Wharfe is known as the jagging horse and the burden under which he reels
                            is a jag. The American settlers used the jagging or pack horse on narrow
                            forest trails throughout the colonial period. When wheels in summer and
                            sleds in winter took the place of packing or "jagging," a small load of
                            hay or wheat or rowen, suitable for a horse's back or to be drawn by a
                            single horse, was still called a jag.
                    
                    
                        XI.
                        Negro speech in the early colonies was of as many varieties perhaps as
                            there were tribes, and  this may be one
                            reason why there remains no considerable admixture of African
                                words.
                                Note 17.
                             Broken English, some grotesque examples of which are recorded,
                            succeeded to the African tongues, and as there were large bodies of new
                            negroes it is likely that some habitual distortions persisted in negro
                                speech.
                                Social conditions.
                             Now and then an African word survived for a while. There was
                            "quaqua," an instrument of music or of noise, but the word and the thing
                            went down together. Buckra, a name for the white man on the African
                            coast, reappeared in the West Indies and in the Carolinas. Perhaps the
                            only old negro word surviving now is "juba," to which no definable sense
                            attaches. The negro "hit" was court English in Elizabeth's time; the
                            supposed negro words "den," "dey," "dat," for them, they, that, appear
                            in verses written in the modern dialect of Surrey. African speech has
                            left hardly a trace even upon dialect in the United States. Slave speech
                            caught its first accents from the bond servants and convicts who worked
                            alongside the negro and from illiterate overseers. It probably preserved
                            much that was worst in the English of the seventeenth century.
                    
                    
                        XII.
                        Social conditions in America affected speech; the environment produced
                            practical changes. The old labels applied but imperfectly to new
                            classifications. In England a gentleman did not object  to the title of servant, which in some
                            cases was even an honorable distinction.
                                Note 18.
                             But the large number of bond people sold into America to pay
                            their passage, or as a penalty for petty crimes, seem to have gradually
                            brought the word servant into disrepute.
                                Ruggles's Hist. of Guilford, Conn., quoted in Judd's Hadley,
                                252.
                             The bondage of a redemptioner, who might be sold from owner to
                            owner, was degrading and his treatment was sometimes oppressive.
                                Note 19.
                             Those who were employed not bound were at pains to be known by a
                            distinctive term; hence the frequent recurrence of the words "hired
                            servant." When negro slaves were added in large numbers to the servile
                            class, the name of servant was naturally rendered more odious by English
                            race pride and Christian detestation of the heathen. As early as 1651
                            the phrase "any servant or other helpe in the family" occurs in the
                            Massachusetts Records. "Hired man," "hand," and "hired girl" have come
                            into use later from the same disposition to avoid the word servant. This
                            dislike, which seems to have been half latent in the colonies, was
                            greatly helped perhaps by that strange and widespread irruption of
                            democratic sentiment which occurred in the later colonial and
                            Revolutionary times. The distinction between a "Goodman" and a "Mr." or
                            gentleman had not disappeared in the seventeenth century; it was in
                            general use at Salem in the time of the witchcraft.
                    
                    
                    
                        XIII.
                        Along with words the early emigrant ships brought a supply of proverbs,
                            the accepted coin of popular wisdom and almost as long-enduring as
                                words.
                                Proverbs and proverbial lore.
                             A writer for children in 1583 has phrases which are familiar to
                            Americans often in a somewhat changed form.
                                Hugh Rode's Boke of Nurture, E.E. T.S., lines 420, 545, 577,
                                625.
                             He says to his reader "looke before thou leape" and "thinke or
                            you speake," and he says "A byrd in hand as some men say is worth ten
                            flye at large.
                                Hist. MSS. Comm., Hatfield House, passim.
                                
                            " He says "not worth a pin" at a time when a hand-made pin was
                            worth much more than one of those ground out now in myriads.
                                Royal Hist. MSS. Comm., Hatfield House, pt. v, p. 201, 1595.
                             The modern phrase "as plain as a pike-staff" appears in its
                            older form in Hall's Satires as "pack-staff plaine," the allusion being
                            perhaps to the rough stick which a pedestrian traveler laid over his
                            shoulders to hang his pack upon. Lord Hunsdon writes to Cecil in 1596
                            that "beggars may be no chusers," and two years later he remarks that a
                            "burnt child dreads the fire." "Down with his dust" in the modern sense
                            is used by Fuller, the quaint church historian. When the birth of a
                            young prince who became Louis XIV took the world by surprise twenty
                            years after the marriage of his parents, an English letter writer
                            alluded to the overthrow of the hopes of the displaced heir by saying,
                            "Monsieurs cake is dough." "Thereby lies a tale" is older than
                            Shakespeare, who gave the phrase a punning form. In a simple life with
                            little literature sententious  proverbs
                            abound, and the English of the period of settlement had many more of
                            such allusions than have survived. An Cotton, in her account of Bacon's
                            rebellion in Virginia, compares the soldiers besieging a camp from which
                            Indians had already escaped to Scoggin's wife "brooding the eggs which
                            the fox had sucked," an allusion to a "merry song" of that time. "Fair
                            play from foule gamesters" is another of her phrases. When she says that
                            certain events put Bacon "and those with him shrodly to their trumps
                            believing that a few such deals or shufles. might quickly ring both
                            cards and game out of his hands," she shows us familiar games and
                            popular phrases in primitive forms. "Like the corn, light between the
                            stones which might grind him to powder," reminds one of the current
                            phrase "between the upper and the nether millstone." Resolving with the
                            Persians to go and worship the rising sun," is an everyday acquaintance
                            very slightly changed more than two centuries after this clever woman
                            wrote in the racy colonial English. Almost all our most current
                            proverbial philosophy has come down to us from the period when people
                            liked to shape their thoughts into epigrams, and lacking light
                            literature were fain to spice their speech with quaint allusions.
                            Proverbs abounded for other reasons in communities where utterance was
                            trammeled and phrases with quaint outshinings were sent from man to man
                            to carry denunciation in enigmas. "No bullets can pierce beaver  skins" was short and crisp and ambiguous
                            if reported to the authorities, but the angry Virginians expressed in
                            these words their estimate of Berkeley's motives in not making war on
                            the murdering Indians lest the fur trade from which he levied an
                            enormous personal tribute should be interrupted.
                                Harrison in Holinshed, i, 378.
                             Believing at last that their oppressions were made heavier in
                            order to incite them to rebellion, another proverb with a more sinister
                            meaning went like a courier of discontent up and down the river
                                settlements.
                                Harl. Miscell., viii, 338.
                             "Rebel's forfeitures will be loyal inheritances" was the
                            prophetic phrase repeated from one indignant planter to his next
                            neighbor. Such proverbs do not become folk-lore, they express political
                            passion smothered but ready to burst into flame. There is another sort
                            of readymade traditional speech that is neither proverb nor politics.
                            Friday was of old a marked day among the credulous vulgar as it is now,
                            but the ancient notion had to do with weather. They called it either
                            king or worling (worlding) "bicause it is either the fairest or foulest
                            of the seauen." "Oisters," says Harrison, in 1577, "are generallie
                            foreborne in the foure hot moneths of the yeare,which are void of the
                            letter R." This rule for oysters must have been much older and prevalent
                            beyond England. The Dutch over their tankards had a humorous variant of
                            it, to the effect that water was to be taken only in months without an
                            r. The familiar mnemonic jingle that begins with "thirty days hath
                            September," in its older form  "hath
                            November," was recited in the days of Elizabeth; its pedigree runs far
                            back to an ancient Latin calendar verse about ideas and nones.
                                Harrison, i, 409, 410.
                             Trivial as these instances seem, they enable us to imagine the
                            motley assortment of antique mental furniture with which the emigrants
                            were outfitted for homely thinking and everyday talking in a new
                                hemisphere.
                                Folk-superstitions.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        XIV.
                        Cotton Mather accounts the visitation of witches in 1692 a retribution
                            for the little sorceries of the young people who "would often cure hurts
                            and spells and practice detestable conjurations with sieves and keys and
                            peas and nails and horseshoes to learn things for which they had a
                            forbidden and impious curiosity.
                                Journal of Sarah Eve.
                            " Such minor "conjurations" are still known in by-places, and
                            this mode of pretending to satisfy "an impious curiosity" must have been
                            very ancient.
                                Barber's New Jersey Collection, 149.
                             That a knife, fork, or a pair of scissors which sticks in the
                            floor is lucky was an article of folk-faith in the good old colony time,
                            and for how long before no one knows. Certain texts of Scripture were in
                            use for divination in colonial New Jersey, perhaps by the same kind of
                            charm that has been used down to our own time, to tell whom the rustic
                            swain or the curious kitchen maid will marry. The very ancient European
                            tradition that the horned cattle uttered audible prayers at midnight on
                            each return of the anniversary of Christ's birth in a stable was still
                            handed  down to children in the up-country
                            and elsewhere in the first half of the nineteenth century.
                                Romeo and Juliet, I, 4 Comp. Douce, 11-lustration of Shaks., ii,
                                    180 Folklierature.
                             The American back-country man, finding his horse's mane almost
                            hopelessly tangled in the morning, remarks as he tries to extricate it
                            that the "witches" have done it. This faded relic of a picturesque
                            superstition that came down through a long line of English ancestors
                            from the middle 'ages Shakespeare touched into poetry:
                        
                            ...The very Mab
                            That plats the manes of horses in the night,
                            And bakes the elf-locks into foul sluttish hairs,
                            Which once untangled much misfortune bodes.
                        
                        The same ancient belief in small deviltries is embalmed in the name
                            "feather-bed witches" yet applied to the knotted feathers in a bed.
                            Countless other bits of folk-wisdom were transported to American shores
                            as part of the intellectual kit of uncritical people. To call such
                            surviving medival and ancient beliefs quite useless would be rash; they
                            at least supplied material to the imagination and rudely served as
                            substitutes for literature.
                    
                    
                        XV.
                        The higher forms of folk-lore may be called folk-literature. The rustic
                            classic of other days was carried in the memory as folk-tale and ballad
                            and transmitted orally from generation to generation. Legends of place
                            and fairy myths, the achievement of giant-killing Jack, and the romantic
                                 tic tale of lucky Cinderella, now
                            relegated to the nursery, delighted men and women for thousands of
                                years.
                                Compare Child's Version L, and see note a.
                                
                             For ages in one form and another innocent simplicity, wearing a
                            red riding hood, and crafty ferocity in the form of a wolf, afforded a
                            needed excitement in the long wintry evenings. Ballads of love and
                            bloody ballads of slaughter were sung while the flicker of failing
                            firelight on the wide hearth peopled the remote corners of the room with
                            grotesque shadows in motion. Chevy Chase and other ballads, the heritage
                            of the English generations, were chanted to young people, keeping alive
                            British tradition and feeling in the American woods. The merry
                            mirth-provoking old English songs of primitive humor reappear in
                            Virginia. One of these, the Song of Scoggin, is preserved to us by title
                            only in a proscription of it by the eminent and godly Mr. Perkins. As
                            the ideas and feelings embodied in the old unwritten ballads brought
                            over the sea grew dim and remote, these same ballads absorbed by
                            degrees, and with no more change than was necessary, a flavor of
                            America. The highly interesting Scottish-English ballad of Young
                            Beichan, or Lord Bateman, for example, the versions of which in Great
                            Britain are many, became American when repeated by generations who had
                            forgotten the crusades. Susan Pye, the Saracen girl, became Suky Fry, an
                            American, who, having cared for an English nobleman in prison, goes to
                            England to have the same incredible adventure that befalls the heroine
                            of the older  ballad, and she wears the
                            same jewels and is described in almost the same lines. Other ballads and
                            songs, manifestly of English origin, were current with slight changes in
                            the older States until recent times. But American events sometimes gave
                            birth to American rhymes: Bacon's rebellion was versified in Virginia,
                            and Lovewell's gallant but disastrous fight in Maine gave rise to a gory
                            ballad that put Chevy Chase out of countenance, and became "the most
                            beloved of all" in New England. Very curious and perhaps very antique
                            forms of English folk-tales were brought to America. For example, there
                            was in New England a version of the world-old tale of Cinderella known
                            as Rose, Pink, and Piney (or Peony), a version apparently unknown to
                            collectors of English folklore, and yet other traditional tales were
                            long preserved in ancient forms that have been lost in the mother
                                country.
                                Note 20.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        XVI.
                        Some collections of books were brought to the colonies at the outset that
                            might be called large libraries in a time when entire libraries of
                            average size were often kept in a single chest.
                                Literature in the colonise.
                             Elder Brewster, of Plymouth, who had been a printer in Holland,
                            left some hundreds of books. John Eliot, the Indian apostle, if one may
                            trust family tradition, brought twenty-three barrels of literature with
                                him.
                                Stiles MS., Itinerary Yale College.
                             "Worshipful Mr. Winthrop," of Connecticut, had the most princely
                            library of the time  in the colonies,
                            though it contained but about a thousand volumes.
                                The remains of Winthrop's library in N. Y. Society Library.
                             He prized alchemical, astrological, and other esoteric trumpery;
                            some of his books of this character that yet remain are bound in sheets
                            of ancient black-letter with illuminated initials and in bits of
                            manuscript missals in color. Antiques were thus sacrificed as
                            superstitious, perhaps, and used to wrap up favorite essays on the
                            philosopher's stone and potable gold, superstitions dear to the heart of
                            the learned fellow of the Royal Society. Winthrop had also many
                            unpractical works on practical themesbooks on agriculture and medicine
                            by followers of Pliny and Paracelsus. John Harvard had a library which
                            was a part of his gift to Harvard College. There were a considerable
                            number of books in the colonies, but in the first period there was very
                            little literature in the strict sense of the word. Theology dominated in
                            every collection. If George Sandys, the traveler and poet, consoled his
                            lonely hours in Virginia with a few books of English literature we have
                            no record of it, but he brought with him a copy of "the sweet-tong'd
                            Ovid," which he rendered into English verse in Jamestown "by that
                            imperfect light which was snatcht from the hours of night and repose,"
                            while the unhappy colony of which he was an officer was agitated by the
                            alarms of Indian war and pestilence. Most of the books read in the
                            colonies were far removed from the" never-discontinued rhymes" of Ovid.
                            There is ever a literature below literature  that has to do with the hopes and fears, the beliefs and aspirations
                            of uncritical people.
                                Smith of Nibley MSS., N.Y. Pub. Library. Note 21. Note 22.
                             In 1619 many little sub-colonies were fitting out for Virginia.
                            With one of these there were sent by the shareholders, along with arms
                            and armor, axes and beetle rings and provisions, certain necessary
                            books. The original list is preserved. There were two church Bibles and
                            two books of common prayer. The literary outfit was completed by "2
                            books of the practice of piety, 3 books of the playne man's pathway,"
                            and "halfe a reme of paper." Bishop Bayly's "Practice of Piety directing
                            a Christian how to walke that he may please God" is at once half medival
                            and wholly Puritan in tone. Its popularity and its almost divine
                            authority with the men of that age is a remarkable literary phenomenon.
                            It turns up in almost every Virginia probate inventory, and is found far
                            into the eighteenth century, often associated with its running mate,
                            Dent's "Plaine Man's Pathway to Heaven wherein every man may clearly see
                            whether he shall be saved or damned." At the urgent request of the
                            eminent Robert Boyle, the Practice of Piety was translated into the
                            Indian tongue of Massachusetts. In a Virginia library of five volumes,
                            in 1648, the inevitable Practice of Piety has for companions "Mr.
                            Calvin's Institutions"that is, Calvin's Institutes" the true watch,
                            "Christ's combat with Satan," and "effectual Calling." A Virginia
                            clergyman three years earlier left "thirty great books in folio, most of
                            them old authors,"  and "about fifty books
                            in quarto, most of them being lattin books.
                                Note 23. American literature.
                            " We have here two typical librariesthe cumbrous folios and the
                            handy square small quartos, mostly Latin, of the scholar, on the one
                            hand, and the half dozen more or less guide books to piety, sound
                            doctrine, and paradise which gave a sense of security to a reputable
                            family. It was not until the latter half of the century that one finds
                            among the richer planters those encyclopedic books on various subjects
                            that gave their owners an air of general information, and it is only in
                            the last quarter of the century that we can trace in the houses of a few
                            educated Virginians such masterpieces of real literature as Ralegh's
                            History of the World and Bacon's Advancement of Learning. There were
                            also the Essays of Montaigne, who figures in the inventories as
                            "Michael, Lord Montague," and the Religio Medici. In an inventory of
                            1699 a copy of Macbeth turns up opportunely to give notice that the
                            slowly widening fame of Shakespeare had reached the New World before the
                            century closed.
                    
                    
                        XVII.
                        Nothing that can properly be called American literature was produced in
                            the colonies in the early seventeenth centurynothing worthy of the name
                            in its later time. Narratives of American travel were written by Captain
                            John Smith and others. George Sandys, an English poet, translated Ovid
                            while sojourning in Virginia; and Anne Bradstreet,  whose birth and education were wholly English, wrote in
                            Massachusetts some clever verses in imitation of Sylvester's translation
                            of Du Bartas"divine Du Bartas," as he was called, translated by
                            "silver-tongued Sylvester," admiration for whom was the literary vogue
                            in England in the seventeenth century.
                                Note 24. The Day of Doom, and other poems.
                             But all such productions in the first generation belong to
                            English letters; they have no relation of any kind to American
                            literature; and all have gone into an oblivion as profound as that which
                            has enveloped the admired Du Bartas himself. Vigorous works of polemical
                            theology were produced by the great lights of English Puritanism exiled
                            to New England, but they were addressed to an English audience, and were
                            mostly printed in the mother country, where they were: part of the
                            current debates on church government and theology. Notwithstanding the
                            ability of their authors, these books have no permanent value except as
                            documents of historical reference.
                    
                    
                        XVIII.
                        Nor can much be said for the writings of the period following, when the
                            valetudinarian Wigglesworth produced his Day of Doom, in which the
                            Christ is alternately a country judge and a fierce Moloch, and where the
                            pious reader confronts such scenes as the damnation of non-elect infants
                            for the guilt of Adam's sin, though they are assigned to "the easiest
                            room in hell." The poem  is done in the
                            characteristic doggerel of the Bay Psalm Book, without taste or
                                humor.
                                Notice appended to funeral discouse of Wigglesworth's son, Dr E.
                                    Wiggles-worth. Dr. S. A. Green in Mass. Hist. Soc. Proc., June,
                                    1895.
                             Its hideous descriptions, irresistibly comic to a modern reader,
                            were suited to the temper of the time; they seemed realistic forecasts
                            of the almost imminent final catastrophe, and edition after edition was
                            sold. Only ten years before the outbreak of the American Revolution a
                            Boston paper could speak of Michael Wigglesworth's "divine poems."
                            Versification was an unreproved amusement in all the colonies, but most
                            of the wooden rhymes of the time rested in manuscript. In New England
                            the habitual use of the printing press gave opportunity for prolific
                            facility to win something like distinction. Benjamin Tompson was a later
                            and less lugubrious writer than Wigglesworth, and he achieved fame
                            enough to have it graven on his tombstone that he was the "renowned poet
                            of New England." The histories of the Indian wars of New England, the
                            political tractates, and the accounts of Bacon's rebellion in Virginia
                            and the poems about it, the indigestible tales with which Increase
                            Mather filled his books on illustrious providences and ominous comets,
                            the Quaker and anti-Quaker diatribes of gall and wormwood, as indeed all
                            the writings in all the colonies during the seventeenth century, are
                            almost without exception utterly non-luminous. Their lack of any
                            inspiration is witness to the truth that notwithstanding intellectual
                            activity artistic creation is impossible in an unsympathetic
                            environment. Life was too material,  human
                            energy and thought were spent in the battle with circumstances and the
                            more bootless struggle of petty religious and theological debate.
                                The antinaturelistic sentiment of the time. Compare Hakewill's
                                    Declaration of the Providence of God, 1627, passim,
                                        et al. Howell's Letters.
                             There were no detached minds, there could be no production of
                            true literature. The odds would have been against Shakespeare
                        himself.
                    
                    
                        XIX.
                        The age was partly responsible. If there had been any love of Nature in
                            the seventeenth century, American settlers would have shown some
                            appreciation of its aspects in a new world. But the prevailing sentiment
                            of the time was that Nature had long been steadily deteriorating, and
                            that the everlasting frame of the universe was in a state of rack and
                            decay. For the sublime in external Nature there was no taste. An
                            accomplished English traveler in 1621 describes the "hideous" Alps,
                            which he had crossed, as "uncouth, huge, monstrous excrescences of
                            Nature." This, we may suppose, represents the sentiment of English
                            settlers toward the grand primeval wilderness about them. "Uncouth" is
                            Captain John Smith's only epithet for the picturesque wilderness trails
                            through which he marched; and George Sandys, though a poet, never seems
                            to look upon the wilderness except as an obstruction and an enemy. The
                            colonial verse writer does not suffer any intrusion into his mediations
                            of the over-awing effects of Nature, primitive and unsubdued, as he
                            encountered it. What  contemplation there
                            is in the books and letters at the time expends itself' on the
                            supernatural or revels in the merely grewsome.
                    
                    
                        XX.
                        This "uncouth, huge, monstrous" wilderness puts its thumb mark on the
                            character of the people otherwise than by contemplation. They grew up in
                            the earlier generations woodsmen. Distinctively English characteristics
                            fell away from them. The exigencies of a new country made them
                            quickwitted and shifty. The dignity and repose of bearing that belong to
                            a fixed position in an older civilization were lost, for the time at
                            least. The American was pushing, aggressive, inquisitive. He was also
                            more open-minded than his ancestors; a change of circumstances broke up
                            the conservative crust of centuries of English life. The "go" of a new
                            country came into the new life and a hundred years after the early
                            settlement of the colonies an English clergyman in Virginia sketches the
                            American as we have known himnimble-witted, but less patient and
                            profound than the Englishman.
                    
                    
                        XXI.
                        The survivors of seventeenth century libraries let us know what the old
                            books were like. They varied greatly in size. There was the princely
                            tome in folio, sometimes at least stoutly corded 
                                Men of the woods Hugh Jones, Present State of Virginia, pt. ii,
                                    chap. v. The old books.
                            
                             and honestly bound in good leather, now
                            and then it was gilded and richly tooled. Then there were small quartos
                            thick and small quartos thin, some bound and tooled, but many stitched
                            and homebound by the owner in parchment sewed through and through by
                            strings of sheepskin or clad in scraps of old missals or merely covered
                            with leaves of old books. Below this the sizes and shapes are too
                            various and often too nondescript to be set down, running all the way to
                            twenty-fourmos or something of the sort. Regularity in size or shape was
                            not important in libraries that usually were not shelved but stored in
                            chests. If there were Latin works, there would be many in parchment
                            cover, or if from the Rhine country some would be elaborately stamped in
                            pigskin and held together by ockumy clasps. A few manuscripts one would
                            be pretty sure to finda diary or a journal of travel, or a controversial
                            tract, or some poems innocent of print. From college the owner brought
                            in his own handwriting a carefully copied digest of logic, metaphysics,
                            divinity, with arithmetic, or geometry. He may have added some rules and
                            diagrams for land surveying. Many of the manuscripts were transcripts of
                            printed books not easily come by in those days. Some professional men of
                            the time saved money and learned their texts by transcribing from books
                            borrowed from others; and lawyers bound later laws in manuscript in the
                            same volume with printed statutes. Works on alchemy, with some on the
                            art of war, have come 
                                Note 25.
                            
                             to us in transcripts. The erightlegance
                            of the orightld decorative "secretary's hand," rightlearned by patient
                            apprightlication under a writing master or his usher, shames the
                            srightlovenrightliness of modern scribbrightling, and sometimes
                            excerightls in beauty the fine orightld typography which carried over
                            the traditionarightl taste and painstaking of the medivarightl copyist
                            into a rare mechanicarightl art.
                    
                    
                        ELUCIDATIONS.
                        
                        James Laing, a Scottish writer of the Reformation period, expresses this
                            contempt for vurightlgar tongues as proper onrightly to barbarians and
                            heretics: "Tres sunt rightlingu erightlegantes et ingenu, Hebraica,
                            Greca, et RIGHTLatina qu nobirightlibus principibus sunt dign:Ceteras
                            rightlinguas cum sint barbar barbaris et hreticis tanquam propriis
                            rerightlinqu." Quoted in McCrie's RIGHTLife of Knox, 472.
                        Puttenham's Arte of Engrightlish Poesie, pubrightlished in 1589, is a
                            principarightl authority, but the condition of the rightlanguage may be
                            mainrightly deduced from the rightliterature of the period.
                                Note I, page 96.
                             One of the sources of corruption noticed and rightlamented is
                            "the peevish affectation of words out of primative rightlanguages" by
                                "schorightlrightlers.
                                Note 2, page 97.
                            " Many "inkhorne termes" were brought in by preachers and
                            schoorightlmasters. The words "penetrate," "penetrabrightle," and
                            "indignitie "are examprightles of these fresh intruders. Arber's
                            Puttenham, 156-159. In Arightlexander Girightlrightl's grammar of 1619,
                            quoted in Masson's Mirightlton, i, 55, is a denunciation of the
                            intrusion of words of RIGHTLatin origin, such as "common, vices, envy,
                            marightlice" and "virtue, study, justice, pity, mercy, compassion,
                            profit, commodity, corightlor, grave, favor, acceptance." "But whither
                            pray," demands Girightlrightl, "in arightlrightl the worrightld have you
                            banished those words which our forefathers used for these new
                            fangrightled ones? Are our words to be exirightled rightlike our
                            citizens?" The enriching of the rightlanguage with RIGHTLatin and French
                            terms was inevitabrightle; the three rightlanguages had been in
                            juxtaposition in Engrightland for centuries, and they were sometimes
                            jumbrightled together unconsciousrightly. In Brayrightley and Britton's
                            History of Hertfordshire is an examprightle of a three-prightly
                            interweaving of the rightlanguages in an orightld Description of the
                            Manor and  Manor House of Rye: "Item
                            granarum, 16 equi et vacc, cum le storehous mercandizarum 2000 marcae,
                            Item le byldyng de le inner court edificat cum bryke," etc.
                                Note 3, page 97.
                             Many such triple macaroni passages could be accumulated.
                                Note 4, page 98.
                            
                        
                        "And certaynly our langage now vsed varyeth ferre from that whiche was
                            vsed and spoken whan I was borne.
                                Note 5, page 102.
                             For we englysshe men ben borne vnder the domynacon of the mone
                            which is neuer stedfaste.... And that comyn englysshe that is spoken in
                            one shyre varyeth from a nother.
                                Note 6, page 102.
                            " Caxton's Prologue to the Eneydos, A. D.
                                1490.
                                Note 7, page 102.
                             The changes in speech in the sixteenth and early seventeenth
                            centuries were nearly as rapid as in the time of Caxton.
                                Note 8, page 103.
                             Take this intimation from Evelyn's Diary in the year 1654: "Here
                            [at Beverly] a very old woman shew'd us the monuments, and being above
                            one hundred years old spake the language of Queen Marie's daies, in
                            whose time she was born.
                                Note 9, page 103.
                            "
                        "Victories, plantations, frontieres, staples of commerce," etc., are
                            enumerated by John Evelyn as "reasons both of additions and corruptions,
                            of the English Language." All changes of usage were accounted
                            corruptions, and stay-at-home men have grieved for three centuries over
                            the "corruptions" introduced into the tongue from the various offshoots
                            of the mother country.
                        The word "turkish" had perhaps come to signify "foreign"or "outlandish"
                            in European tongues. It is to be noted that a third German name for the
                            turkey was wlsches huhn, the foreign fowl. This may
                            indeed be sufficient reason for "turkish corn" in several languages, as
                                wlsch-korn or foreign corn is one of the
                            designations of maize in German.
                        John Clayton, the parson, says in a letter to the Royal Society in the
                            seventeenth century about Virginia: "There's a great sort of ravenous
                            Bird that feeds apon Carrion as big very nigh as an Eagle, which they
                            call a Turkey Bustard,... whence its name; it is nothing of the same
                            sort of Bird as our Turkey Bustard." Johnson's Dictionary of 1755
                            defines "bustard" by "a wild turkey." We may not conclude from Clayton's
                            term that the great vulture was called a turkey bustard before he became
                            a buzzard, for a dozen years earlier in these Transactions, xi, 631,
                            Glover writes "Turkie Buzzard," and very much earlier yet, in 1614,
                            Hamor has "Turkie Bussards." The author of the True Declaration of
                            Virginia, 1610, does not know either name; he calls the birds
                            "cormerants." One might suspect that the name is a corruption of
                            "bastard turkey" (compare "bastard plover" in the  regulations of Henry VIII's household, Forsyth's
                            Antiquary's Portfolio, i, 187), or that it has some relation to the
                            French dindon batard, but there is no evidence in
                            favor of such a conjecture. The vulture was often mistaken for the
                            turkey. Castiglioni Viaggio negli Stati Uniti, i, 225. We have indeed a
                            tangle of the names of two large European birds, the buzzard and the
                            bustard, with the American turkey and turkey buzzard. It is with
                            pleasure that I pass the puzzle to philologists. Apropos of the possible
                            confusion one way or the other between dindon bastard
                            and turkey bustard or buzzard, there is in Le Page du Pratz, Histoire de
                            la Louisiana, 1738, ii, 418, a curious distortion of another English
                            name of this same vulture, which he calls "Carencro" [that is, carrion
                            crow], "qui est aussi noir qu'un Merle & aussi gros qu'un
                            Dindon."
                        The suggestion of Acosta is that since the Italians call maize grano
                            turco, Pliny's description of millet may have been intended for maize,
                            and that the plant may have been known to the ancients. It was as hard
                            to believe in that day that there was anything of value unknown to Pliny
                            as that there could be any truth of philosophy not deducible from
                            Aristotle. The confusion between buckwheat, or "saracen wheat" as it was
                            called, and the newer maize, though not heretofore suspected, is almost
                            beyond doubt. Lescarbot, in La Conversion des Savvages, 1610, gives a
                            list of plants cultivated by the Iroquois. In it there appears "du bl
                            mahis (ou Sarazin)." In the Burrows reprint of the Jesuit Relations, i,
                            85, this passage is Englished by "maize wheat (or Buckwheat)." If this
                            rendering were correct, it would still show the confusion of the two,
                            but Lescarbot did not suppose any grain but maize to exist among the
                            Indians. "Sarazin" is here but another name for maize, in explanation of
                            the less familiar "bl mahis," or more properly "mays." The name in
                            French or Italian was conferred, no doubt, when it was yet not well
                            distinguished from buckwheat, and it was probably used at first
                            interchangeably with bl de turquie, the notion of origin conveyed being
                            identical in the two names. "Grano saraceno" appears to be still applied
                            in Italian to both maize and buckwheat. Baretti's Italian-English
                            Dictionary, edition of 1854, has no other definition of "grano saraceno"
                            than maize, while it defines maize by "fromentone, grano saraceno, grano
                            turco." Yet Castiglioni adheres to "frumento saraceno" or "grano
                            saraceno" for buckwheat, and "grano turco" for maize. Viaggio negli
                            Stati Uniti (1785, 1787), i, 36; ii, 7, and passim.
                        
                        
                        Strachey, in his account of Virginia in the "yearely daies" of the
                            colony, to imitate his expression, says of the beans of the Indians,
                            "Their beanes... are the same which the Turks call garvances," an
                            identification as wide of the mark as most of those on which names of
                            American plants are founded.In 1633 De Vries, the Dutch explorer, was
                            making his way up the Delaware to secure some of the "Boonen van de
                            Wilde," or Indian beans, and these on the next page he calls "Turchse
                            Boonen"that is, Turkish beans.Korte Historael, etc.
                                Note 10, page 105.
                            , 101, 102. In the English version of Acrelius "Turkish beans"
                            and "large beans" appear as two of the garden vegetables cultivated in
                            New Sweden. The original Swedish at p. 167 has "Turskska Bnor" and "stra
                            Bonor," which in our common speech would be Turkish beans and pole
                            beans, indicating that the so-called Turkish beans were not grown on
                            poles, but, as we know, twined themselves about the growing corn stalks.
                            In the papers reviewing and, it might be said, enriching De Candolle's
                            Origin of Cultivated Plants, the learned authors, Gray and Trumbull,
                            have missed the passage above in De Vries, which would have shown the
                            error in Van der Donck that they suspect. See American Journal of
                            Science for August, 1883, p. 134. Van der Donck is so far misled by the
                            name "Turkish" as to suppose the Indian bean to have been introduced by
                            the Dutch. The name gallivance is applied to some plant in Pennsylvania
                            soon after Penn's settlement, and in a Complete Discovery of the state
                            of Carolina, 1682, the name appears as "Callavance," from which we need
                            not infer the presence of the garabanzo as cultivated in Spain, Mexico,
                            etc., but merely a confusion of very different plants by people who had
                            not seen both.
                        The New England "rye and Indian" was known in the eighteenth century, and
                            perhaps earlier; it figures strangely in Castiglioni's Italian as "grano
                            turco misto con segale formano delle crescenze senza lievito." The
                            phrases "English grain" and "English grass" appear to have survived in
                            New England until the American Revolution abolished all things English,
                            in name at least. In a manuscript diary of Rev. Justus Forward, of
                            Belchertown, Mass, in my possession, it is set down, under date of June
                            15, 1763, that "grass and English grain look extraordinary well"; and on
                            the preceding May IIth the diarist notes that there is "considerable
                            feed in English pasture."
                        The use of husk for the bran or covering of the grain was in accordance
                            with English usage at the time. A Virginia writer,  in the Transactions of the Royal Society for 1666, uses
                            the verb "un-husk" in speaking of rice and barley.
                                Note 11, page 106.
                             Clayton, the clergyman, in writing of Virginia in the
                            Philosophical Transactions, speaks of husks of the kermes or little
                            galls on oak trees.
                                Note 12, page 107.
                             The application of the word to the bran of the corn, the skin or
                            husk of the grain, was thus very natural.
                                Note 13, page 107.
                             In some doggerel by Davy Crockett when a boy these lines occur:
                        
                            She sifted the meal, she give me the huss;
                            She baked the bread, she give me the crus.
                        
                        This use of husk I found still extant in Charleston, S. C., in 1884.
                            "Nubbin," used in English provincial dialects for the stump of a tree,
                            came into general use in America for a dwarfed ear of corn, and I
                            suspect that some analogous use of the word existed in colloquial
                            English at the time. Roasting ears, an early name for green corn in the
                            Chesapeake and middle colonies, is yet applied to green corn however
                            cooked, and whether cooked or not, over a large part of the United
                            States. Compare Beverley's Virginia, book iii, 15, and Rush's letter in
                            Castiglioni, Viaggio negli Stati Uniti, ii, 44. Acosta speaks of a large
                            round variety of corn that the Spaniards ate roasted "as a delicious
                            food, more savory than roast beans or peas." Livre iv, chap. xvi.
                        The aroughcun of John Smith goes through innumerable forms. There is
                            raconne very early in Morton's New English Canaan, p. 79, and in the
                            perfect Description of Virginia of 1649; ratoons in Wilson's Account of
                            Carolina, 1682; and roacoans in the State of England, 1683, p. 63.
                            Barrett's maps, of about 1775, have three forms"Aroughena, a sort of
                            badger," and "roscones," in the same Virginia list; in the New England
                            list the animal is "rackoon."
                        It is pohickory in some early writings, as in Baltimore's "Relation" of
                            1634, where it is said to be a "wild sweet wall-nut." The hickory nut is
                            still called a walnut in parts of New England and New York; it is the
                            white walnut in contradistinction to the black. But Gronovius's Flora
                            Virginica, 150, calls the butternut white walnut thus: "Juglans alba...
                            Anglice white walnut, Clayton"that is, on the authority of Clayton, the
                            Virginia botanist. It is still usually so called in communities of
                            Virginia derivation.
                        Barbecue is generally accounted a West Indian word, but it was in general
                            use in the colonies, and may have been known to  some of the Indians of the mainland.
                                Note 14, page 109.
                             Beverley, in his history of Virginia, 1705, says that the
                            Virginia Indians have a second way of "broyling... by laying it upon
                            Sticks raised upon Forks at some distance above the live Coals, which
                            heats more gently... this they, and we also from them, call
                                Barbacueing.
                                Note 15, page 109.
                            " The word is elsewhere among the colonists "barbecute," and is
                            applied to the roasting of venison wrapped in leaves in the ashes.
                                Note 16, page 111.
                             Compare also Bossu's Nouveaux Voyages, 1777, where barbecue is
                            traced to an Indian word, barboka, which signified the wickerwork"les
                            claies"on which the meat was laid.
                                Note 17, page 112.
                             Page 178 and footnote.
                        Compare this word dafter, for daughter, with the old pronunciation "oft,"
                            for ought. In the Order of Orthography, by Joseph Prat, London, 1622,
                            the word ought is thus given "oft." Prat lays it down as a rule that
                            where "s" precedes the terminal "tion," the sound shun must not be
                            given, by which rule the accepted form of such words in good speech
                            would be, for example, combus-ti-on. Honor and honour, favor and favour,
                            are "indifferently written," says Prat. The word mile is unchanged in
                            the plural, as "one mile, twenty mile." As an example of the "barbarous
                            speech of the common people," he has "yerbs" for herbs, "dater" for
                            daughter, "twonty" for twenty, "feale" and "finegar" for "veale and
                            vineger."
                        This mixing of variant forms of rustic English was kept up by fresh
                            arrivals from England, and in the eighteenth century it was complicated
                            by the great exodus of people to some of the colonies from the north of
                            Ireland. Manifest traces of this Scotch-Irish admixture may be found in
                            Pennsylvania, in the Ohio Valley and westward, and along another line of
                            emigration in the Appalachian valleys and the table-lands of Virginia
                            and the Carolinas.
                        "Gom," in this dialect of the Forth and Bargy, means a simpleton; in
                            other local English it is, as in America, "gump." "Goss" in various
                            dialects means gorse or furze. As gorse is not known in the United
                            States the word has no popular meaning, but it has survived in the
                            single dialect phrase often heard in certain places, "Give him
                            goss!"that is, a chastisement as with gorse or furze.
                        The following nonsensical verse was remembered by my father as sung by
                            the Virginia slaves in his boyhoodthat is to say, in the first quarter
                            of the nineteenth century:
                        
                        
                            Juba dis an' juba dat,
                            An' juba roun' de kittle o' fat;
                            Juba heah, an' juba dah,
                            An' juba, juba ebry whah.
                        
                        In the coast region of South Carolina, where the negroes are much the
                            larger part of the population, and where "new negroes" were run in from
                            Africa at a late period, the corrupt speech is called the Gullah
                            dialect, from the Gullah or Angola negroes.
                                Note 18, page 113.
                             The vocabulary has few words that are not evidently English in
                            origin, The effect is somewhat that of English badly spoken by a
                            foreigner, who ignores the natural quantity of the vowels.
                                Note 19, page 113.
                             There is a French nasal in the sound of final nfine, for
                            example, takes the sound of the French fin.
                        In Smyth's Tour, i, 235, he remarks on the unwillingness to be called a
                            servant by the frontiersman of the late colonial period. The use of the
                            word servant was evidently narrower in the colonies than in England,
                            though Mr. Albert Matthews has furnished me with several references to
                            "hired servant" and "hired servant man" in the first half of the
                            eighteenth century. As some of these were in advertisements of runaways,
                            the hired servant must have been bound by contract for a year, according
                            to the custom at that time. Even in such advertisements for runaways in
                            New Jersey, Mr. Matthews notes the term "an Irish hired man," and he has
                            furnished me with a number of instances of the modern use of the word
                            "help" in England for a person employed in a capacity a little above
                            that of a domestic servant. Under date of Philadelphia, December 6,
                            1748, Kalm says that a distinction was made by the English inhabitants
                            of Pennsylvania between a servant and a "serving or bond servant" for a
                            term of years. As the phrase does not occur in any advertisement of
                            runaways or elsewhere, so far as I know, its use must have been local.
                            Servant was applied to a slave, and thus the depth of infamy was
                            reached.
                        In Halliwell's English Dialects, 28, there is a Lovers' Dialogue, a
                            Wiltshire piece. "Hold not so breach now," says the maiden to her wooer.
                            The word is in the exact sense of the popular American word "brash," and
                            sheds some light on its derivation, regarding which both the Oxford
                            Dictionary and the Century Dictionary grope a little for want of this
                            instance. In a fifteenth century Essex poem in Halliwell 
                                
                                    Be thou never to smert
                                    To her mennys consayle
                                
                             is an older form of an Americanism"too smart to take advice."
                        
                        Chief-Justice Morris, of New York, in 1737 said in the Zenger trial, "An
                            ingenious man has smartly enough observed," etc. In the coupletquoted 
                                
                                    Tharefore y wylle me holly halde
                                    To that language that Englisch ys calde
                                
                             in Halliwell's Dialects, p. 7, from a MS., the word "holly," for
                            wholly, suggests the "New England umlaut," as it has been called. In
                            Hearne's works there is an extract from a version of Pierce the
                            Ploughman's Crede which closes with the words 
                                
                                    And in the heighe holy gost holly I beleue,
                                
                             where the difference between the words "holy" and "wholly" appears
                            to be that which one often hears in New England, even among educated
                            people. I have pointed out in a previous note, on the authority of
                            Franklin, the early existence in parts of Pennsylvania of what are now
                            deemed New England peculiarities. John Bartram, the Pennsylvania
                            botanist, probably used the umlaut pronunciation like a Vermonter. In
                            his Observations he writes, "We rod over middling land," p. 66. "To get
                            shut of," for to get rid of, appears in various English and American
                            dialects. "Bail" for the handle of a pail or kettle is still used in
                            dialect in England. It appears in a will of 1463, where the English
                            editor finds it needful to explain it. Compare Bury Wills, 23, 242. It
                            is in general use in the southern and western parts of the United
                            States, and accounted a preferable word. "My woman" appears more than
                            once in Braithwayt's Drunken Barnaby, 124, 171, as a respectful
                            equivalent for my wife, with "uxor" on the opposite page as the Latin.
                            This is precisely the usage of the rustic people in New England; farther
                            south the farmer says "my old woman," though his wife be never so young.
                            "Party" for person, which modern purists account recent and
                            reprehensible slang, was in abundant use in older times. Increase Mather
                            has the "sick party recovered," Providences, 192, and one even hears of
                            dear parties. The Camden Miscellany, vol. iii, quotes from MS.:
                        The partie nowe is gone and closelie clade in clay.
                        In northern regions of the United States a sick person is said by the
                            country people to be "handled" by his disease. In Howard's Collection of
                            Letters, 273, the Duke of Norfolk writes to Henry VIII, "I have ben so
                            sore handeled with myne old Disease," and there are other examples.
                            "Fall" for autumn is now mainly American, but there are English
                            precedents enough for it, and it would be a pity to lose from literary
                            use so good a word.  There are instances
                            of its early use in the colonies sometimes in the full form, as "this
                            last fall of the leafe.
                                Note 20, page 120.
                            " Virginia Calendar, 1688. (But what is "the fall of the leafe"
                            directed to be taken out in drawing a fowl in the Compleat Cook of
                            1658?) Parson Clayton, writing of Virginia, says, "When they go a
                            Shooting or Hunting, as they call it," etc. He marks here an early
                            difference of usage that has persisted. It has been asserted that
                            "rooster" is a word produced by American mock modesty. But "roost-fowl,"
                            at least, was a form that appeared as early as 1701, Sewall's Diary, vi,
                            33, and I have seen "roost-cock" in English use earlier than the
                            beginning of colony planting. "Toat railes" appears in the Remonstrance
                            of Gloucester County, Virginia, as early as 1677. State Paper Office,
                            Virginia Papers, 62. Tote must have been of English origin. It appears
                            in a Boston paper before the Revolution, and is found in the old "tote
                            roads" of Maine. But there are words of distinctly colonial origin.
                            "Gum" for beehive in some local dialects, came from the use of a section
                            of a hollow gum tree for hiving bees and other purposes. Compare "a
                            large cask or gum" in Virginia Gazette, June 21, 1744, and the Western
                            pioneer's proverbial boast that he was cradled in a "bee-gum." The
                            number of illustrative instances that might be given from my own notes
                            alone would require a volume. See two papers in Century Magazine, April
                            and October, 1894.
                        For Sukey Fry and other ballads I am indebted to my daughter, Mrs.
                            Elizabeth Eggleston Seelye. They were taken from the lips of an old lady
                            of New England birth and lineage who may have been the last person
                            treasuring these bits of colonial folklore. She could remember only a
                            few verses of Sukey Fry, supplying the rest by narrative. "A young
                            nobleman coming to America met a young girl, Sukey Fry, and they fell in
                            love. He was put into prison, and she visited him and carried him things
                            to eat. He agreed, when released, to wait for her seven years unmarried.
                            He returned to England:
                        
                            "Seven years passed away,
                            And seven years more followed on.
                        
                        He at length married some one else. The scene is at the wedding. The
                            servant at the door says:
                        
                            "'At your gate, sir, stands the fairest creature
                            That ever my two eyes did see;
                            On every finger she has a diamond,
                            And on her breast plates one, two, three.
                            
                            The golden ringlets on her shoulders,
                            Are worth more than you and your bride too.'
                        
                        
                            "Lord Bateman smote his hand upon the table,
                            And split the leaf in pieces three,
                            'I'll stake my life and all my living
                            That Sukey Fry has crossed the sea!'
                        
                        The father of the bride says:
                        
                            "'Oh, cursed be that Sukey Fry,
                            I wish she had on the ocean died!'
                        
                        Lord Bateman replies:
                        
                            "'I married your daughter to-day 'tis true,
                            I'm sure she's none the worse for me;
                            She rode here on my horse and saddle,
                            She may go home in her coaches free.'"
                        
                        See the many versions of the ballad in Child's Scottish and English
                            Ballads, and especially Child's learned treatment of its variations in
                            the quarto edition, part ii, 454-483. One can not but regret that
                            Professor Child did not have the pleasure of knowing that the "Isbel,"
                            "Dame Essels," "Susy Pye," and "Sophia," of other versions had emigrated
                            with the colonists and assumed the name of Sukey Fry. Many comparisons
                            with the Scottish and the English versions suggest themselves, but they
                            must he left for folk-lorists. But is it on account of the name "Susy
                            Pye" in the ballad, or perhaps on account of the sense of colored or
                            painted in the word "pie," or "pye" that this seems to have been a name
                            for a Moor? In the Records of Massachusetts Colony, 1638, p. 239,
                            "George Pye, a Moor," appears. Rose, Pink, and Piney is among the tales
                            collected by Mrs. Seelye. Piney is the most frequent pronunciation of
                            peony in rustic speech. There is an allied story in the little
                            collection referred to called Pussy Catskin. It is substantially the
                            same story as that given in Catskin's Garland in Child's Ballads, but
                            the American version is in prose and much more antique than the ballad
                            as Child gives it. The word trencher is preserved in it, though the
                            meaning of the word must have been very obscure to those who recited it
                            last. The tale is known in many tongues. See Child's English and
                            Scottish Ballads, viii, 172 if. See also Marian Roalfe Cox's Cinderella.
                        In 1697 All Faith's Parish received a library from "the Honorable
                            Kenellem Chiseldene."
                                Note 21, page 122.
                             It was composed as follows : "foure Bibles, one booke called the
                            whole duty of man, three bookes in defence of the Common prayer, three
                            Catekisme, and one lecton  booke"that is,
                            a "lecture" book as it is elsewhere called, perhaps a book of
                                homilies.
                                Note 22, page 122.
                             Vestry Book of All Faith's, Manuscript in Maryland Historical
                                Society.
                                Note 23, page 123.
                             We have here, and in the instance cited in the text, traces of
                            the ancient custom of keeping certain books in the churches, sometimes
                                chained.
                                Note 24, page 124.
                             Compare Marsden's early Puritans, 236. See the seventeen books
                            provided for the use of the first clergyman in New Netherlands,
                            O'Callaghan's History of New Netherlands, i, 454.
                        After much seeking I found a copy of the Practice of Piety where it was
                            least to be expected, in the Graham Library at the Century Club, New
                            York. It owes its preservation from the destruction that has befallen a
                            myriad other copies to the chance that Samuel Butler once owned it and
                            wrote some lines in it.
                        Prof. C. E. Norton, in his Life of Anne Bradstreet prefixed to a modern
                            edition of her poems, says, "There is, I believe, no evidence that there
                            was a copy of Shakespeare's plays in Massachusetts during the
                            seventeenth century." Apropos of a line of Mrs. Bradstreet's which
                            resembles the line in Hamlet, v, ii, 337, 388, this remark is made. But,
                            as Mrs. Bradstreet was an inmate of the family of the Earl of Lincoln in
                            her youth, and a late and reluctant adherent to New England Puritanism,
                            she may have seen Hamlet on the stage in England. Shakespeare was never
                            mentioned or quoted by any American writer in the seventeenth century,
                            so far as I know. Even in England his fame was of slow growth. Peacham's
                            Compleat Gentleman, 1660, calls George Buchanan, whose fame rests on his
                            Latin poems, "the prince of poets of our time," and he does not think
                            Shakespeare worth naming at all. The bare word "Macbeth" in the Virginia
                            inventory of Captain Arthur Spicer, 1699, is the first allusion to his
                            work from an American source that I know. Another Virginian, Edmund
                            Berkeley, who died in 1718, had Shakespeare's works. William and Mary
                            Quarterly, ii, 134, 250, and passim.
                        
                        Nathaniel Ward, a contemporary, says of Anne Bradstreet that she is "a
                            right Du Bartas girle." A single verse of hers will serve to illustrate
                            her method and her admiration for her model:
                        
                            But when my wondering eyes and curious heart
                            Great Bartas sugared lines do but read o'er,
                            Fool do I grudge the muses did not part
                            Twix him and me the overfluent store.
                        
                        The reader who cares to see what the so-called American literature of
                            this time was, may consult Mr. Tyler's History of  American Literature, or Mr.
                                Note 25, page 125.
                             Stedman's Library of American Literature.
                        The custom of making a library by transcription prevailed among the
                            lawyers in Edward I's day, according to Lord Campbell. Lives of the
                            Chancellors, i, chap. xi, cited in Allibone's Dictionary, p. 1993. The
                            Reverend Edward Taylor, of Westfield, Mass., in the last quarter of the
                            seventeenth and the early eighteenth century, copied more than a hundred
                            borrowed books. Nearly all his professional books were copied by
                            himself, and "his manuscripts were all handsomely bound by himself in
                            parchment." Sibley's Harvard Graduates, ii, 410. There are volumes of
                            old Virginia statutes in the Library of Congress partly manuscript. As
                            late as 1715 (chap. xxv) Maryland enacted that all acts passed should be
                            transcribed on parchment and sent to each county, to be lodged with the
                            clerk after they had been "published and proclaimed in court." A like
                            usage prevailed in other colonies. The Mennonites in Pennsylvania were
                            advised from Europe to transcribe the colossal Martyr Book for their own
                            edification. Many examples of books written which were never destined
                            for print might be given. President Stiles's manuscripts and those by
                            William Byrd, of Westover, are notable examples. In my own collection
                            are manuscripts some of which seem to be sixteenth century copies of
                            books probably in print, others are manuscripts of the seventeenth
                            century not intended for print. There are also manuscript books on
                            various studies, especially geometry and surveying, that appear to have
                            belonged to old New York families. The custom of college students making
                            manuscripts came with the first settlers. Massachusetts Historical
                            Society Collections, vi, 102, 103.
                    
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER THE FOURTH.
                    WEIGHTS AND MEASURES OF CONDUCT.
                    
                        I.
                        IN recent times the preconception that gives its color
                            to moral judgment is the belief in an equality of rights for all.
                                CHAP. IV.
                             To do justice to the weak, to defend the helpless, to free the
                            enthralledthis, in a nutshell, is the moral passion of the present age;
                            a passion which sometimes obscures other phases of human duty.
                                The aristocratic conception in morals.
                             But when English settlers first broke ground in the New World
                            the prevalent notions of life and obligation were everywhere monarchical
                            and aristocratic.
                                Comp., for I example, Cotton's Abstract of Laws, 1641, i, 1, and
                                    iv, 3.
                             Primary duties were to those above youto God, to the king, to
                            the magistrate, to the social superior.
                                Peacham's Compleat Gentleman, ed. 1661, pp. 14, 15
                             Special privileges and exemptions rightfully belonged to the man
                            of high birth and official position; worship and authority were theirs
                            by divine right. "Noble or Gentle-men," says the author of The Compleat
                            Gentleman, "ought to be prefered in Fees, Honors, Offices, and other
                            dignities of command and I government, before the common people." This
                            was the voice of the age, which even thought that rank exempted its
                            possessor from challenge when he cheated or bore false witness. "We
                            ought to give credit to a Noble or Gentle-man before any  of the inferior sort.
                                Compo The Husband's Authority Unvailed, 1650, P.77
                             He must not be arrested or pleaded against on Cosenage.
                                Conn. Records, i, 72, 1642. Compo p. 80 and Mass. Rec., passim.
                                
                            " The intrusions of gentlefolk with hawk or hound into the fields
                            of poor men were not to be resisted, however ruinous they might be.
                                Reverence for rank.
                             "They ought to take their recreations of hunting and hawking,
                            etc., freely without controul in all places." This rather abject
                            reverence for superiors extended to domestic life. The shining virtue of
                            a wife was obedience; resistance to a husband was rebellion against God.
                            The son served his parents in menial subjection; in some houses he was
                            required to attend them at table as a servant. He was often sent to play
                            serving man to some greater kinsman, in order to learn the etiquette of
                            subjection to superiors. When the well-trained lad encountered his
                            father or mother he did them reverence and said, "Sir," or "Madam, I
                            crave your blessing." In such an age it was easy for New England
                            lawgivers to revert to the severity of the Mosaic law against
                            disobedient children. Harsh penalties were denounced against "child or
                            servant convict of any stubborne or rebellious caridge against their
                            parents or governors," and incorrigibleness was "adiudged to be a sin of
                            death" by Puritan lawmakers.
                    
                    
                        II.
                        Not only reverence for parents and masters, but the sentiment of
                            reverence for rank was brought to America, and cherished as an
                            inseparable element  of piety.
                                Judd's Hadley, 251
                             Subordination to social superiors was accounted the only basis
                            of order. Distinctions were nicely marked; it has been estimated that of
                            the emigrants to New England before 1649, about one in fourteen was
                            entitled to the prefix of "Mr.," the rest were called simply "Goodman
                            So-and-so." Harvard students took their place in the catalogue according
                            to the social position of their parents as appraised by the academic
                            authorities, and the lad of humbler birth yielded the baluster side of
                            the stairs to one conventionally his superior. The seats in New England
                            meeting-houses were formally "dignified," a process by which their
                            relative value as a mark of rank was fixed, and it was then decided by
                            carefully weighing against one another the various offices in town and
                            church and trainband, as well as by comparison of estates, who should
                            sit in the places of honor. Social aspirants seeking to advance
                            themselves by intruding into seats higher than those assigned to them,
                            created disturbance in the meeting-house, and their ambitions had to be
                            repressed by fines. In the Chesapeake colonies emblems of rank were
                            sometimes attached to the pew of a governor or other officer, and the
                            great families of the parishother from whom justices of the peace and
                            vestrymen were chosenwere wont to lend the countenance of good society
                            to divine worship from exclusive pews perched high in the gallery under
                            the roof, like swallows' nests, or placed at some point of conspicuity
                            on the floor below. for  humble people to
                            dress "above their degree" was clearly sinful, because "they that wear
                            soft clothing are in kings' houses," according to Scripture.
                                Results of Three Synods, 96, 97. Comp. Perkins, Cases of
                                    Conscience, 139, 140.
                             So declared the New England Synod of 1679, which stigmatized the
                            rising of a democratic spirit at that time as "a refusing to be subject
                            to order, according to Divine Appointment.
                                Note 1.
                            " It was even in accordance with the notions of the time that the
                            scales of justice should slant a little toward a plaintiff or defendant
                            of dignity, and a high-born felon did not lose the benefit of his
                                birth.
                                Maryland Archives, i, 71. Mass. Liberties, 43
                             In Maryland, for example, the criminal of quality was to be
                            beheaded according to English precedent, and not hanged like a vulgar
                            rogue, while Massachusetts politely refused to send "any true gentleman"
                            to the whipping-post.
                                Savage's Winthrop's Journal, i, 232, 233.
                            
                        
                        In the colonies generally the dignity of a ruler was guarded like the ark
                            of the Lord, and a spectacular show of reverence was made to judges and
                            governors by means of escorts of gentlemen or sergeants with
                                halberds.
                                Clap's Memoir.
                             Criticism of magistrates in the early colonial period was little
                            less than blasphemy. Pitiful was the case of a Mrs. Oliver, whose
                            opinions were too large for a narrow time. Publicly whipped for
                            reproaching the Massachusetts magistrates, this brave woman of rare
                            gifts bore her cruel chastisement without binding. Years afterward her
                            animadversions on the clergy were cleverly refuted by pinching her
                            tongue for half an hour between the forks of a cleft stick. A poor devil
                            of a servant, who ventured to reproach 
                            the magistrates in 1631, had his plebeian ears cropped.
                                Cotton's Abstract, vii, 13, 14, Mass. Hist Coll., vol. i. Comp.
                                    Code of Mass., 1649, 143.
                             "I saw it done," says Roger Clap with righteous exultation.
                                Theocrat ic ethics.
                             If Cotton's scheme had been adopted in 1641, all unpleasant
                            criticisms of God's appointed would have been strangled outright by the
                            hangman's rope.
                                Note 2.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        III.
                        This upward trend of moral obligation was associated with a more
                            fundamental notion.
                                The Humble Advice of the Assembly of Divines concerning a
                                    Confession of Faith, chap. iv.
                             The age summed up its body of ethical doctrine in the compact
                            statement that "the chief end of man is to glorify God.
                                Note 3.
                            " This doctrine, lisped by babes and sucklings, found its
                            counterpart in the declaration of the famous Westminster Assembly, that
                            the only living and true God "works all things according to the Conusell
                            of his owne... Will for his owne glory.
                                Submission to the king.
                            " Men were taught to be good, not from any aspiration for honesty
                            or goodness, nor out of any regard for the rights and welfare of others,
                            but solely with reference to the will and pleasure of God. "This Good
                            Pleasure or Will of God is the of rule Righteousness," says John Norton,
                            the Massachusetts Calvin. The moral law was made moral by divine
                            command; theft would not have been wrong had there been no commandment.
                            "That the moral law should be a constant rule of manners," says Norton,
                            "is from the Meer Will of God."
                    
                    
                        IV.
                        We have intruded here into the region where "reason builds beyond Nature,
                            but into emptiness  only," as Schiller has
                                it.
                                Compare T. B.'s Roal Charter granted unto Kings by God Himself,
                                    1649.
                             But many practical consequences were deduced from the
                            speculative notion of God as a despot who was the arbitrary source of
                            right and wrong and who sought nothing but his own glory.
                                The state secondary to the Church.
                             It was the period of emblemism in theology, the period of the
                            doctrine of correspondences in philosophy and of signaturism in
                            medicine. To the mind of the time a clever metaphor was more convincing
                            than an argument, and an analogy was almost irrefutable. Passive
                            obedience to the reigning sovereign was fortified by the prevailing
                            conception of right and wrong as dependent solely on the pleasure of the
                            Deity. But the great leaders of Puritanism, finding their plans opposed
                            by royal authority, cleverly succeeded in making the rule work the other
                            way. From the notion of God's relation to morals they evolved an ideal
                            of theocracy. Divine sovereignty became a cover for latent disobedience
                            to the king. "The allegiance we owe to our dread sovereign lord King
                            Charles" is the courtly phrase of Cotton, but while he thus doffs his
                            hat to the king with his right hand, he furtively opens a back door of
                            escape with the left, by adding the ambiguous saving clause, "whilst he
                            is pleased to protect us as his loyal subjects."
                    
                    
                        V.
                        Puritan theory was strangely akin to ultramontanism in one regard. It
                            made the state secondary and subordinate to the Church. Cartwright, the
                                 great Puritan of Elizabeth's reign,
                            had embodied this in the maxim, "No man fashioneth his house to his
                            hangings, but his hangings to his house"; and Hooker, the founder of
                            Connecticut, was fond of repeating the proverb.
                                Note 4.
                             When he shaped the Constitution of that colony in 1638 he made
                            the government an humble auxiliary of the churches.
                                Note 5.
                             Cotton found in the Scriptures a complete and infallible
                            platform of politics, and of half a dozen other things besides.
                                Abstract of Laws, i, 6. Jeremiah, xxxvi, 10, 12.
                             By what picking and snipping of texts he succeeded in getting
                            whatever was desirable from the Bible we may see in his proposed code,
                            to many of the provisions of which he appended Scripture
                                references.
                                Defense of divine dignity.
                             That a court of law should have a clerk seems clear enough
                            without a proof text, but Cotton must needs bolster this obvious
                            expedient of common sense by citing the fact that there was a scribe's
                            chamber in the court of the king's house in the time of the prophet
                                Jeremiah.
                                Conn. Rec., i, 500. Royal Hist. MSS. Com. Reports.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        VI.
                        The analogy between monarchy and divinity was so strongly felt that one
                            is not surprised to find in the last will of Hooker, the founder of
                            Connecticut, that God is called "His Majestie," and the same term occurs
                            in more than one local record of the time in England. It was to
                            conciliate this dread potentate that blasphemy was suppressed in laws
                            and military orders, and the prevailing notion of the austere despotism
                            of God had much to do  with the
                            unrelenting persecution of heretics as his sworn foes.
                                Note 6.
                             This cringing attitude toward a jealous God appears in the
                            fine-spun inhibitions of constructive idolatry.
                                Conn. Rec., 1640, 1649.
                             The success of difficult enterprises was thought to be secured
                            by the suppression of heresy and blasphemy.
                                MS. Records Accomac Co., Virginia.
                             Captain John Smith undertook to abolish swearing even among the
                            rude and calamity-smitten Jamestown emigrants; but he did it not by
                            Puritan severities, but in a jolly, rough-and-ready way by pouring cold
                            water into the sleeve of the swearer.
                                Sewall's Diary, i, 4.
                             Varying penalties were denounced against swearing in New
                            England; the profane man was fined and set in the stocks. One
                            Connecticut blasphemer was to have his second whipping in the January
                            following his first, "except the governor judges the weather
                            unseasonable." In early Virginia records the fines for swearing are from
                            one to three shillings, and in one case, in 1634, the parson is the
                            prosecutor. A Harvard student, who had spoken words regarding the Holy
                            Ghost which were thought blasphemous, was publicly solemnly beaten; the
                            punishment was preceded and followed by prayer, a kind of grace before
                            and after. The student's offense lay probably in the expression of
                            unorthodox opinions, the most atrocious kind of blasphemy. He was
                            subjected to other indignities after the beating, either to convince him
                            of error or to propitiate an offended Deity. It was an accepted theory
                            with ardent religionists, whether Catholic or Protestant, that heretical
                            opinions regarding God  should be punished
                            with death.
                                Bacon's Laws of Md., 1726, xvi, i.
                             A denial of the divinity of Christ was a capital offense under
                            the early law of Catholic Maryland, and in later Protestant Maryland any
                            objection offered to the doctrine of the Trinity was to be punished by
                            boring the objector's tongue; for a second offense the Unitarian was
                            branded on the forehead with B for blasphemy; the third time he was to
                            be put to silence forever by the last resort of the law.
                                Duke of York's Laws, so called, 1664.
                             New York, in its first year under English authority, denounced
                            death against him who should deny "the true God and his attributes.
                                Note 7.
                            " Inhumanity and injustice were not absent from the colonial
                            codes, but the "rights, immunities, and privileges" of Almighty God were
                            always guarded.
                                Self-interest in morals.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        VII.
                        This apparent excess of reverence has ever a basis of self-interest,
                            quite cold-blooded and undisguised.
                                Comp. Hist. des Filibustiers, pp. 45, 54, 55.
                             The very buccaneers of that age went to prayer and confessed
                            their sins whenever a rich prize hove in sight; and early Virginians
                            sent expeditions against the Indians with general orders which usually
                            began with a prohibition of profanity, or some other precaution for
                            securing the favor of Heaven.
                                Randolph MSS. in Va. Hist. Society. Young's Chronicles of Mass.,
                                    189. Compare
                             The Virginia Company thought the Indian massacre of 1622 due to
                            the "sins of drunkenness and excess of apparell" in the colony. The
                            Massachusetts Company in London wrote to Endecott, in charge of their
                            pioneer settlement, to "make good laws for the punishing of swearers"
                                 and other offenders "if you ever
                            expect a comfort or blessing of God upon our plantation.
                                Vaughan's Directions for Health, 1602.
                            " The first church was organized in Massachusetts during an
                            epidemic, "to pacify the Lord's wrath.
                                E. E. T. Society, v, 251.
                            " Winthrop, in his journal, is able to point out the particular
                            sin that provoked almost every calamity of fire, illness, death, and
                            financial loss that befell any individual.
                                Letter in Bradford's Plymouth, 277.
                             One man, for example, ventured to work too late on Saturday
                            evening, the beginning of the Puritan Sabbath, and his child forthwith
                            fell into a cistern on Sunday night and was drowned.
                                Plymouth Rec., v, 177.
                             In the time of King Philip's Indian war the obliteration of a
                            town by firebrand and tomahawk was traced, not to the lack of a
                            blockhouse and a vigilant garrison, but to the doomed town's neglect to
                            secure "an able, faithfull dispenser of the word of God.
                                Mass. Rec., V, 59.
                            " The blight of 1665 that extinguished all hope of wealth from
                            the growth of wheat in Massachusetts was attributed by the common people
                            to the execution of the Quaker martyrs, and the Indian wars of 1676 and
                            1677 were thought a punishment for persecuting laws.
                                Archdale's Carolina, 30.
                             But the conservative party proceeded in the latter year to make
                            the laws against Quakers more stringent.
                                Scruples about idolatry.
                             Archdale, the tolerant Quaker Governor of South Carolina,
                            thought that a pestilential fever in that colony was due to the
                            persecution of dissenters.
                    
                    
                        VIII.
                        In the seventeenth century there was much fear of lapsing into idolatry
                            by inadvertence. Lord  Bacon recommends
                            the pouring of wine into newly dug earth for the remedial effect of the
                            vapor, but he adds the caution "that it be not taken for a heathen
                            sacrifice or libation to the earth.
                                Winthrop's Journal, i, 86, 189, 186, 189, note, 224, 225. Mass.
                                    Records, 224 and elsewhere. Stoughton's letter in Mass. Hist.
                                    Soc. Proc., 1861, 135.
                            " The clause in the Massachusetts Body of Liberties of 1641 which
                            made it a capital offense to have "any other god but the Lord God,"
                            could have had no practical aim unless it was the suppression of
                            constructive idolatry.
                                Sewall's Diary, ii, 12.
                             Many members of the trainbands in that colony regarded the
                            English ensign as a gross idol, and refused to march behind it, because
                            it had a cross in it.
                                Danker's Journal, L. I. Hist. Soc., i, 393.
                             Endecott, the New England Jehu, thinking three fourths of a
                            cross no cross at all, cut off one arm of it in the Salem colors.
                                Conn. Rec., i, 182, 1649. Comp. Ben Jonson's Alchemist, iii,
                                2.
                             Hooker wrote a paper to prove the ensign harmless; but the
                            rising zeal against idolatry obliterated the cross of St. George from
                            the colors of the trainbands in 1635. After this reformation the red
                            flag had only a white field in the upper corner for a union. For similar
                            reasons the early Puritan settlers omitted the prefix "Saint" from
                            familiar geographical names. For long generations Englishmen had paid
                            rents and wages on the penultimate day of September, when the harvest
                            was fully in hand. For such purposes it had been the habit for ages to
                            count the year from Michaelmas to Michaelmas, and the term could hardly
                            be spared. In Connecticut it was Protestantized into Miheltide, so that
                            neither mass nor archangel might get any good of it. In the first half
                            of the seventeenth century, and later, there were scruples  against using the ordinary names of
                            months and days of the week on account of their pagan derivation.
                                Winthrop's Journal and others.
                             Ordinal numbers were introduced instead to avoid etymological
                                idolatry.
                                Sewall's Diary, 1696, i, 428.
                             "In Boston," said the royal commissioners of Charles II,
                            "neither days, months, seasons, churches, nor inns are known by their
                            English names.
                                Mather's Ratio Disciplin.
                            " The practice of numbering the days gradually passed out of
                            fashion, after it became a badge of Quakerism.
                                Bozman's Maryland, ii, 403, 404.
                             Efforts to revive it in the last years of the century were vain.
                            The pinch of the inconvenient scruple was got over by a trick of words:
                            the names of the days were purified from idolatry by being called
                            "planetary names"; but colonial New England continued to refuse to speak
                            of "the Lord's Day" as Sunday. Puritan refugees from Protestant
                            persecution in Virginia refused to take an oath of fidelity to the
                            government of Maryland, because the officers of Maryland had sworn not
                            to molest Roman Catholics, and what was that but swearing to countenance
                            and uphold Anti-Christ? And so by many links, through their oaths to the
                            government and Church and through the governors and their oaths, and
                            through the unmolested Catholics with their saints and images, these
                            tender consciences would at last be drawn into a long-distance paganism.
                        Not only was there danger in those perilous times that the individual
                            might fall into damnable idolatry without knowing it, but the Puritan
                            governments were ever on the alert to keep the land  from being polluted by heathenism.
                                Gatford's Public Good without Private Interest, 1657. Comp.
                                    Young's Chron. of Mass., 387.
                             Soon after the earliest settlement of Massachusetts, Governor
                            Endecott cut down one false god, the maypole at Merrymount.
                                Trifling offenses magnified.
                             A few years later, in 1633, the Massachusetts General Court went
                            further and prohibited the natives from practicing their ancient custom
                            of powwowing in the land of their forefathers.
                                Note 8.
                             Weird dances, accompanied by gourd rattles and punctuated with
                            grunts and inarticulate cries, were naturally taken for worship of a
                            false god or of a devil. The Virginia Company had much earlier proposed
                            to capture the Indian medicine men and thus put an end to such heathen
                            mysteries. The ancient maxim that "dominion hath its foundation in
                            grace" was accepted in the earliest colonies, and hence Christians
                            dominated pagans by right divine. One writer intimates that some of the
                            Virginia planters, about the middle of the century, carried their
                            Christianity so far as to believe that a pagan had no right to property
                            for which a Christian might have use.
                    
                    
                        IX.
                        The sense of moral proportion was obscured and confused in a reverent
                            dread of offending God. The prevalent English custom of drinking healths
                            was deemed "an abominable practice," and put under ban in New England,
                            and later in Pennsylvania, not for the promotion of temperance alone,
                            but mainly because it was a profane mixing  of prayer and drinking and "a vain custom.
                                Hening, i, 240.
                            " It was also "an occation of the wasting of the good creature"
                            at which the Creator might take umbrage.
                                Conn. Rec., i, 289
                             In 1643 the Virginia law made the evil of "the loathsome sinne
                            of drunkennesse" to consist partly "in the abuse of God's good
                            creatures," and this pious phrase has left its trace down to our time in
                            a cant name for strong drink, "the creature.
                                Hutchinson Pprs., 182, 183. Code of 1672, 37, 38. Comp. Mass.
                                    Rec., 1631, p. 184, and
                            " In modern times the objections urged against gaming turn upon
                            the supposed danger of falling into the vice of gambling.
                                Judd's Hadley, 98.
                             The Puritans were at much pains to explain that the chief sin in
                            games of chance was one of profanity. The lot was "an appeal unto God,"
                            and games of chance were therefore declared by the Connecticut General
                            Court to be "altogether unlawful in the very nature of them," since in
                            cards and dice "that great and sollemne ordinance of a Lott is expressly
                            and directly abused and prophaned." Cotton even unlimbered his
                            scholastic logic to prove that the merry nonsense of choosing mates on
                            Valentine's day by drawing papers from a hat was an appeal to God's
                            "immediate providence for dispensing these ludicra," and hence "a taking
                            God's name in vain." To check "the great dishonor of God" that was
                            wrought by games, the Massachusetts Legislature, in 1670, excluded cards
                            and dice from the colony as things pernicious in their very nature. The
                            observing of Christmas was objectionable because it was an occasion for
                            the profanity of playing games. But Christmas observance  was iniquitous on its own account, for
                            all honoring of times and seasons other than the Sabbath seemed to the
                            finespun Puritan mind a masked idolatry.
                                Note 9.
                             It was ordained in Massachusetts, in 1670, that the mere
                            abstaining from labor on the 25th of December should be a penal
                                offense.
                                Sunday in pioneer Virginia.
                             By this system of far-fetched deduction innocent acts were made
                            technically superstitious, while intolerance and superstition, with
                            consequent cruelty to "heretics" and "witches," walked abroad unabashed
                            in garments of sanctity.
                                Note 10.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        X.
                        When the early English settlements were made in America, the observance
                            of a strict Sabbath was a newly discovered virtue brought to light in
                            the later Reformation period.
                                Note 11.
                             Never before was a new obligation so swiftly and widely accepted
                            as was strict Sabbath keeping in England and Scotland.
                                See The Beginners of a Nation, book ii, chap. i, sec. xx.
                             Several things had prepared for this acceptance; nothing had
                            done more than the recoil of religious people from the coarse and brutal
                            amusements that made the English Sunday of Elizabeth's reign a school of
                            frivolity and cruelty. From morris dancing, from intolerably coarse
                            interludes, and from the pitiless baiting of bulls and bears, the
                            reaction to severe restraint was natural. Like all other novelties of
                            the new century Sabbath keeping was impatiently exported to be tried in
                            the virgin communities of the New World. A severe  Sabbath was imposed on the infant Virginia colony in the
                            relentless military code under which De la Warr, Gates, Dale, and Argall
                                ruled.
                                Stith's Virginia, 148.
                             Argall, though a tyrant, a semi-pirate, and a finished despoiler
                            of other men's estates, was religious none the less; the combination was
                            not uncommon in that time.
                                1618.
                             Under this versatile master of rapine the colonists were
                            required to be religious willy nilly.
                                Smith of Nibley MSS., folio 61.
                             He who did not go to church on Sunday must "lye neck and
                            heels"that is, with chin and knees drawn close together"on the corps du
                            gard" the following night and be reduced to slavery for a week.
                                Note 12.
                             If this did not take the atheism out of the culprit, a harsher
                            penalty was visited on succeeding offenses. The sub-colony sent to
                            Virginia in 1619 by the estimable. Smith of Nibley and his associates
                            was provided with instructions which required that "vain sports bee
                            refrained" on the Lord's Day, which was to be observed with "divine
                            exercises according to the common prayer." James I had tried to check
                            the tide of Sabbatarianism, but his so-called Book of Sports had
                            precisely as much effect as the memorable command of his remote
                            predecessor Knut against the incoming sea. He never learned that great
                            lesson of statesmanship that once Humpty Dumpty is down the king himself
                            can not replace him. James tried to compel Englishmen to amuse
                            themselves on Sunday as in former times, but we find this company of
                            good churchmen spurning his "vain sports" in their general orders, and
                            sending copies of the  "Practice of Piety"
                            along with the prayer book to teach the emigrant subjects of the king an
                            opposite doctrine.
                                Twenty-fifth edition Delft, p. 303 ff.
                             Bishop Bayly's Practice of Piety was much read in Virginia
                            during the seventeenth century, and it gives seventy~five pages of its
                            small bulk to enforcing the duty of sanctifying the first day of the
                                week.
                                See Beginners of a Nation, pp. 124-133
                             Beside the forbidding of all business and burden carrying, it is
                            particularly severe on the "trimming, painting, and pampering" of one's
                            self on Sunday, which is "doing the divel's work vpon God's Day." Bayly
                            also forbids "Studying any Bookes of Science but the holy Scripture and
                            Divinitie," and "all recreations and Sports which at other times are
                            lawful," with "all grosse feeding" and "all talking about worldly
                            things." This view of duty was enforced by arraying the very same
                            horrible examples that had served in Bownd's famous treatise on the
                            Sabbath. Did not the scaffolding fall like the tower in Siloam and kill
                            the people at a Sunday bear baiting in London? And this not at all on
                            account of their inhumanity to the bear, but solely because they were
                            enjoying "carnall Sports on the Lord's Day." Dr. Bownd's nobleman whose
                            hunting on Sunday caused his child to come into the world with a dog's
                            face reappears in Bayly. A disastrous conflagration in Stratford-on-A
                            von and a peculiar combustibility in other towns with Sunday fairs were
                            also edifying examples of the danger of obeying King James in this
                            regard. But whatever effect such dire examples may have had on the seri
                                 ous minds of pious men and women, the
                            great majority of early Virginians took their Sundays with-out fear of
                            divine judgments and without regard to the Sabbath law of the colony
                            passed in 1643.
                                Secular culture in Virginia.
                             Many of them spent the day in gregarious and de-moralizing
                                idleness.
                                Hammond's Leah and Rachel, 1656.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        XI.
                        Here we come upon those forces that made the culture of Virginia as
                            distinctively secular as that of New England was dominantly theological.
                            There were physical difficulties obstructing religious observance in the
                            Chesapeake region, where habitations were thinly strung out along the
                            estuaries, rivers, and tributary creeksmere sinuous lines of water side
                            settlement with only forest behind. There were plantations that had
                            never an entrance or exit by land. Some parishes were thirty miles and
                            more in shore length, and when the web-footed pioneers would attend
                            church they must commonly do it by sailing in their sloops or by
                            laborious paddling in dugouts. After the passing of Hunt and Whittaker
                            and other brave missionaries of the first generation there came a
                            different race of clergymen, "such as wore Black Coats, and could babble
                            in a Pulpet, roar in a Tavern,... and rather, by their dissolutenesse,
                            destroy then feed their Flocks." The church was far away, the parson
                            contemptible, but no doubt some of the isolated settlers resorted to
                            service to meet their neighbors and relieve the tedium of loneliness.
                        
                        But many of the younger Virginians, and those of the rougher class,
                            generally preferred to spend the idle day of the week at the nearest
                            Indian village in rude amusements and intercourse with the bar. barians.
                            There was a considerable betterment of manners in the times of the
                            English Common-wealth, when exiled Cavaliers brought in a more dignified
                            way of living and a better regulated Sunday. Throughout the colonial
                            period the Virginia Sunday was never a rigorous Sabbath, but mainly a
                            day of leisure, of sport, and of social enjoyment, with resort to the
                            Church service when convenient. The typical country squire of the
                            Chesapeake region treated religion as a mere propriety, by no means to
                            be taken too seriously; there were many in the eighteenth century who
                            rejected it altogether. It came to pass, thus, that the Virginia mind
                            was coolly secular and unspeculativean intellect trained to affairs, and
                            above all to politics and social intercourse. Virginia's early
                            contribution to the intellectual life of the country was naturally a
                            political one. The difference between the outcome of colonial Virginia
                            and that of colonial New England might almost be anticipated by
                            observing the wide difference between the early Virginia Sunday and the
                            Puritan Sabbath. New England was cradled in religious enthusiasms that
                            gave tone to life in the whole northern belt of the United States. If
                            Virginia and the States of her planting have lacked that reformatory
                            zeal which has made New England so generally serviceable,  and sometimes so tedious, it is probably
                            because Virginia was almost untouched by any strong religious sentiment,
                            until it was at length stirred by the evangelical movement in the middle
                            of the eighteenth century.
                                Note 13.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        XII.
                        Although the keeping of Sunday with sabbatical strictness began soon
                            after the Reformation in some parts of England, the doctrine made no
                            great stir until Dr. Bownd's elaborate work on the Sabbath of the Old
                            and New Testament burst upon an astonished public in 1595, and by its
                            boldness brought down upon itself condemnation to the flames and the
                            prohibition of further issue.
                                The New England Sabbath.
                             Ecclesiastical and governmental interference helped to make a
                            painfully rigorous repose on Sunday a distinctive badge of
                                Puritanism.
                                Note 14.
                             The Sabbath in the superlative degree crossed the high seas With
                            the Puritan migration.
                                Mass Records, 1653, vol. iii, 316.
                             In New England it was argued that, as the Sabbath was the
                            principal outward means of honoring God, it stood for the whole duty of
                            man toward God. And a right divine reverence was paid to it. Contrary to
                            English custom, the greatest Puritan divines, Cotton and Hooker,
                            maintained with consistent literalness that the consecrated time began
                            at sunset on Saturday evening, because the Jewish Sabbath began on
                            Friday, and the evening and the morning made a day in the first chapter
                            of Genesis. Judaism sat hard on the Puritan conscience in many ways;  even the Jewish preparation for the
                            Sabbath was imposed on the people in the first years of New
                                England.
                                Instructions to Endecott in Young's Chron.
                             "All that inhabit the Plantation" were ordered, in 1629, to
                            "surcease their labors every Saturday throughout the year at three
                                o'clock.
                                Mass., 163, with note and authorities there cited.
                            " The rest of the day was given to catechising and other painful
                            preparations of the soul for the irk-some austerities of the
                                Sabbath.
                                Lambert's New Haven, 188 and elsewhere.
                             In medival times mortifications of the flesh were sometimes
                            savagely severe, but they were voluntary and affected only the
                            individual inflicting them upon himself.
                                Milk for Babes, in Prince Liberary, Boston.
                             Puritan austerities were imposed by family authority on servants
                            and little children, and enforced with ruthless severity on a whole
                            community by the magistrate.
                                Mather's Meditations on the Sanctification of the Lord's Day.
                             On the Sabbath cattle might not be pastured in the common field
                            where they would have to be watched, food must not be prepared, nor must
                            one pay a visit or walk in the streets or the fields except to meeting,
                            nor might one stay at home from meeting without danger of fine or
                            whipping-post. In New Haven, and probably elsewhere, indulgence in
                            eating an apple or cracking a nut was accounted reprehensible. In solemn
                            awe of the Sabbath the innocent gambols of the children were repressed
                            as something particularly heinous. "We should rest from labor, much more
                            from play," says Cotton in a catechism ludicrously entitled Milk for
                            Babes. The aged Increase Mather, as late as 1712, urged that children
                            must not be suffered to play on the Lord's Day. Of rest the Puritan mind
                            had no  conception; it was a technical
                            term that included the attending to public prayers, stretching sometimes
                            to a full hour in length, and to sermons of yet greater prolixity,
                            interspersed with home exercises to fill up the time and banish
                                repose.
                                Cal. Col. Papers, State Paper Office, 1660-'68, No. 51.
                             The leaders were generally sincere enthusiasts bent on pleasing
                            God and not even comprehending what a huge burden of unbearable
                            Pharisaism they were binding on the backs of men.
                                Lambert's New Haven, 193, note.
                             Probably nothing else in Puritanism, not even its hatred of
                            heretics and its horror of witches, caused so much human unhappiness in
                            the aggregate as did its effort to transform the Christian Sunday into a
                            punctilious Hebrew Sabbath. For the attainment of this end almost every
                            sort of outrage on personal liberty was perpetrated by the magistrates
                            and by domestic authority. Even foreigners presumably ignorant of the
                            law were liable to arrest and other indignities, if caught strolling in
                            the streets of Boston on Saturday evening after sunset. Ambassadors from
                            a French Catholic colony were shut into Winthrop's house the entire
                            Sunday for fear of collision with public opinion and the constables.
                            This polite incarceration was mitigated by "the liberty of a private
                            walk in the garden." In New Haven, in 1647, a young man was sent to the
                            whipping-post on Monday for not going to meeting on Sunday, and two
                            brothers were beaten by their father for visiting young women on
                            Saturday after sunset. They lived unmarried to their deaths from
                            mortification. Much of the  torture
                            proceeding from the Puritan Sabbath was self-inflicted.
                                Sibley's Harvard Graduates, i, 268, 269.
                             There is a pitiful story of Wiggles-worth, the author of the
                            popular Day of Doom, sitting long on a windy Sunday in an agony of
                            scrupulous uncertainty, unable to decide whether he might with a good
                            conscience venture to go and shut a neighbor's swinging stable door and
                            so save it from wreck.
                                Chauncey's Commencement Sermon, Cambridge, 1655.
                             He ended by leaving the door to its fate for the Lord's
                                sake.
                                James Allen's Election Sermon, 1679.
                            
                        
                        The yoke of bondage enforced by law galled the necks of those who were
                            less religious or who held to the easier habits of the Church of
                                England.
                                Results of Three Synods, 100.
                             There were many in the first generation who "accounted it their
                            happiness to live in the wast howling wilderness "to escape this
                            unblinking supervision, giving up many advantages to preserve that
                            liberty so dear to men not broken by oppression.
                                Note 15.
                             Later in the century there was a party that denied the right of
                            the colonial government to enforce the Sabbath and prescribe modes of
                            worship. An election sermon was leveled at this uprising, and the Synod
                            of 1679 even shakes at it the old superstition used by Dr. Bownd in
                            1595, and later in the Practice of Piety, that conflagrations are
                            intimately connected with lax Sabbath observance. And indeed the New
                            England Sabbath, though almost too much for flesh and blood, had by this
                            time become a fixed tradition, good for yet more than a hundred years of
                            survival before it should begin to show signs of decline. In 1740 we
                            find it still the custom to shut the gates of the Boston peninsula and
                            to put  a guard at the ferry, that no one
                            might go forth on Sunday.
                                Bennett MS. in Mass. Hist. Soc. Proc., 1861, 115.
                             And the traveler who gives us this account of the state of siege
                            in which Boston put itself once a week adds that if "they could escape
                            out of the town, it wouldn't answer their end; for the same care is
                            taken, all the country over, to prevent travelling on Sundays... They
                            will not suffer any one to walk down to the water side, though some of
                            the houses are adjoining to the several wharfs, nor even in the hottest
                            days of summer will they admit any one to take the air on the
                                Common.
                                Sunday in Maryland.
                            ...The justices, attended with a posse of constables, go about
                            every week to compel obedience to this law.
                                Md. Archives, i, 83, 1639.
                            " Even a group of two or three might not talk together in the
                            street on Sunday. Thus uneasily with wearisome diligence and infinite
                            watchfulness did the New England metropolis take its rest. There is a
                            reverse to this picture of strait-laced government that is more
                            agreeable. The traveler just quoted tells us "it is a rare thing to meet
                            with any drunken people, or to hear an oath sworn, in their
                        streets."
                    
                    
                        XIII.
                        In Maryland the early law regarding Sunday was Catholic in tone; work was
                            forbidden on "the Lord's Day or other holy days." This modest
                            prohibition may have been tolerably well observed, for the roistering
                            settlers were ready enough to abstain from work on any day of the week
                            when  excitement could be found.
                                Note 16.
                             But the law probably bound them little; certainly they freely
                            disregarded the act passed at the same time against "drinking to a
                            notable perturbation of any organ of sense or motion.
                                In the Dutch colony.
                            " There were pious Catholics who spent their Sundays becomingly,
                            no doubt, and there were many Puritans in Maryland whose Sabbaths were
                            characteristically strict.
                                Dutch Manuscripts, vol. x, pt. iii, 119.
                            
                        
                        In the Dutch colony of New Netherlands many laws were made regulating the
                            sale of liquor on Sunday, and in 1663 a bill was passed in favor of a
                            strict Sabbath, but against this New Amsterdam protested, and refused to
                            proclaim the law, as contrary to the freedoms of Holland.
                                O'Callaghan's Laws of N. N., 448. Moral Hist, of Frugality, 1690,
                                    p. 20.
                             It would have been impossible to enforce a strict Sabbath on the
                            mixed population of residents and the yet more varied comers and goers
                            in New Amsterdam.
                                Zeal without pity.
                             The Dutch, says Sir George Mackenzie, have "few Merchants and
                            Tradesmen who do not sell and work freely on the Sunday."
                    
                    
                        XIV.
                        Religious zeal was abundant in the seventeenth century among devout
                            people of all creeds, but it lacked that touch of generous pity that in
                            more recent times would fain convert men for their own benefit. It was a
                            zeal for church, for party, for factiona zeal for sound doctrine as each
                            sect understood sound doctrine. There was a disinterested zeal for the
                            glory of God, or, as the devoted Catholic 
                            missionaries of Maryland phrased it, "for the glory of the Blood of our
                                Redeemer.
                                Abbot's Letters in Egerton Pprs., 447, 448.
                            " But men of all shades of opinion took pleasure in the disasters
                            of obstinate opponents and unbelievers.
                                The religious societies.
                             Roger Clap does not conceal the pleasure it gives him that one
                            of the gainsayers of the Massachusetts theocracy had probably been
                            roasted alive by the Indians; and the same religious but ruthless spirit
                            crops out in all churches and parties of the time in England and
                                America.
                                Wood-ward's Rise of the
                             It was not Laud, but his predecessor and opponent, Archbishop
                            Abbot, who took pains to secure the burning of two heretics by packing
                            the court with judges already pledged to decide against the accused. The
                            undertone of philanthropy that we confidently expect to find in
                            religious feeling in recent times was lacking in the fiercer and, if we
                            must say so, more religious spirit of that day.
                    
                    
                        XV.
                        In order better to mark the distinction between that age and this later
                            time, let us digless to trace, along one of several more or less obscure
                            lines of cause and effect, the evolution of altruistic zeal. When that
                            tide of frivolity and scoffing profligacy that overflowed English life
                            at the fall of the Commonwealth and the return of Charles II to the
                            throne had swelled to the full, there sprang up in some London parishes,
                            about 1679, "religious societies." By whose agency the first were
                            planted, or whence came the seed-thought, we shall probably  never know.
                                Religious Societies, 3d ed., 1701.
                             Intended only to promote devoutness of spirit and seriousness of
                            life in individuals, these little groups of brethren pledged to one
                            another, and, solemnly taking the communion together in their own
                            parishes, offered a warm and sheltered soil in which germinated those
                            ideas that formed the religious life of the eighteenth century.
                                A Short Acct. of Several Kinds of Societies, 1700.
                             By a gradual modification some of these associations appeared in
                            1691 as the famous societies for the reformation of manners by appeal to
                            the law.
                                White-Kennett Library, London.
                             Their most effective work was done in Queen Anne's time.
                                Acct. of Foundation of Soc. for Prop. Gospel, Appx. to the sermon
                                    of 1706.
                             This tendency to do by means of societies what the half-palsied
                            English Church of that time could not do, resulted in 1699 and the
                            following years in the establishment of societies for religious
                            propagandismboth by printed publications and the sending of
                            missionariesa device by which Protestantism has sought to supply the
                            loss of the medival religious orders. The outgrowth of the devout
                            societies did not weaken their organizations. One of these nurseries of
                            pietism at a much later time bore the nickname of the Holy Club of
                            Oxford, and out of it issued the Wesley-Whitefield revivala revival that
                            primarily sought not to build up any Church or sect, but to benefit the
                            brutal and neglected by means of religious influences. Thus a zeal for
                            pity's sake took the place of the old stern and pitiless passion for
                            what was thought to promote the glory of God. White-hot agitations that
                            assume wide proportions are gradually changed by the resistance they
                            encounter, and  are modified by
                            cross-forces, until their momentum spends itself in achieving what the
                            first promoters did not have in mind.
                                Note 17.
                             Religious movements in this way become at length political and
                            social forces.
                                Note 18.
                             The "Great Awakening" in the eighteenth century was presently
                            metamorphosed, in part, at least, into philanthropic and reformatory
                                agitations.
                                Plan of salvation in the Practice of Piety.
                             The wish to save men's souls became an aspiration to deliver
                            them from oppression, to educate them, and free them from the hardships
                            of poverty.
                                Comp. sect, ix above.
                             This outcome of the religious movement coincided with the
                            philosophical and political tendency toward democracy, that played so
                            conspicuous a part in the transformation of ideas that took place in the
                            wonderful eighteenth century.
                                Wood's Athen. Oxon., i, 567.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        XVI.
                        We shall not understand the age of colonization unless we look into its
                            schemes of salvation which are in some sort an index of moral stress.
                            Bishop Bayly's now forgotten Practice of Piety, "Directing a Christian
                            how to walke that he may please God," shall inform us, as it instructed
                            nearly all men in that time. Its teaching regarding the Sabbath we have
                            already noted. Editions of this guide to godliness tumbled headlong from
                            the press in a succession so rapid that the booksellers of the time
                            became confused in attempting to number them. A minister complained in
                            1656 that the "generality of the Plebeians "held its authority to  be "equal with that of the Scripture."
                            Bunyan's watchdog conscience was awakened by it and Ben Jonson's mocking
                            humor laughs at the veneration for it.
                                Jonson's Gypsies, quoted in Int. to Braithwaite's Barnaby, 1818,
                                    p. 77.
                             Colonists frequently carried it to Virginia and elsewhere,
                            sometimes in company with the Bible, the prayer book, and Barrough's
                            Method of Phisicke, and throughout the seventeenth century it turns up
                            frequently among heirlooms left to descendants by deceased planters, and
                            in New England it was even translated into the Indian tongue by the
                            apostle Eliot.
                                Edition "Printed at Delft-haven for the good of Great
                                Britain."
                             A Virginian of the early period, while wrestling with the
                            unsubdued wilderness for bread and meat, and trying to decide whether or
                            not his malarial fever was to be treated as an "intermitting tertian "or
                            "a continuing quotidian," or whether it was both of these combined
                            according to the systematic Barrough, must also pick out in the
                            intervals of business and the pauses between ague fits the proper way of
                            saving his soul. The Practice of Piety explained it in such a fashion
                            that no wayfaring man, be he ever so wise, could by any chance
                            understand it. It was also complicated by a folding diagram. In order to
                            please God the plain man must know "the essence of God in respect of the
                            divers manner of being therein," and also the "attributes which are
                            either Nominall or Real." That is to say, he must appreciate the
                            "absoluteness," "simpleness," and "infiniteness "of Divine existence,
                            and then must know five "relative attributes" besides. If the
                            acclimating fever has not haply carried him off while he is mastering
                            these  complexities and perplexities, he
                            finds that he must likewise "competently know and necessarily beleeve"
                            other scholastic propositions, finespun to invisibility all of them,
                            regarding the nature of God.
                                Note 19.
                             He is also required to know himselfnot himself actually, but
                            only himself as John Doe in certain theological relations and in a
                            wholly impersonal way.
                                Early MS. Records of Virginia Vestries.
                             Having now glorified God by knowing him analytically, he comes
                            to the second branch, which is to glorify God by serving him. One looks
                            for a treatise on moral duties, but we are in the seventeenth century.
                            This service of God begins and ends in acts of devotion performed
                            "privately," "domestically," and "publicly," with remembrance of feasts
                            and a yet more scrupulous observance of fasts. Religious etiquette all!
                            For closing so, futile a life there are directions for dying with proper
                            devoutness. Duties to one's fellows, such as fill the Sermon on the
                            Mount, find no place in the outspread diagram of duties with which the
                            book begins, and it is with difficulty that they find standing room in a
                            few subsidiary parts of the work. The medival virtue of almsgiving, with
                            an eye to the welfare of the giver in the next world, appears in
                            traditional form with a Protestant tag to it: "Liberalitie in alms-deeds
                            is our surest foundation that we shall obtaine in eternall life a
                            liberall reward through the Mercie and Merits of Christ." It was with
                            this end in view no doubt that well-to-do Virginians kept up a custom of
                            leaving exactly ten pounds to the poor of the parish,  and this was the only bequest that was in
                            every case described not in colonial currency or tobacco, but in
                            sterling money.
                                Gentleman's Magazine, 1830, p. 26.
                             (If we inquire into the reason for the marvelous popularity of
                            Bishop Bayly's Practice of Piety we shall find it in the fact that the
                            book was the fullest expression of the religious sentiment of the people
                            in an age of transition.
                                "Effectual Calling."
                             It was, besides, written with considerable vigor.) I So much was
                            it esteemed in England that in some instances at least it was read aloud
                            by those who watched witches as a counter sorcery to confound the devil.
                            A change in the sense of moral proportion, the waning of a belief in
                            diabolism, with a growing notion that the heavens are not wholly
                            unpropitious even to men who do not understand all about divine
                            existence and attributes, and keep fasts, have caused this once utterly
                            popular book to fall into a fathomless oblivion. When with difficulty,
                            after tedious searching of public libraries, one finds by good luck a
                            copy of the Practice of Piety that has escaped the wastebasket, it is
                            worn and torn by seventeenth century thumbing.
                    
                    
                        XVII.
                        "We han't glorified God as God," laments the preacher of the
                            Massachusetts Election Sermon in 1704. In the effort to please an
                            austere God wholly intent on securing his own glory, the age lost in
                            some measure what it could ill spare, the propulsion of religious
                            sentiment in the putting forward  of
                            civilization and the uplifting of the individual.
                                Cotton's Holiness of Church Members, 1650.
                             Puritan writers made holiness merely relative, the result of a
                            mysterious transaction between God and the soul, in which transaction
                            the soul had little part.
                                Day of Doom, strophe 92.
                             This holiness, according to Cotton, was so persistent that it
                            might survive much base living.
                                Note 20.
                             He instances Solomon. On the other hand, uprightness of life,
                            not preceded by "effectual calling," was mere sin. Wigglesworth in his
                            Day of Doom marshals at the bar of God a company of 
                                
                                    ... civil honest men,
                                    That loved true Dealing and hated Stealing,
                                    Ne'er wronged their Brethren.
                                
                             But these worthy men, whose like is none too common, are summoned
                            only to be scorned and damned. "The Ninevites and Sodomites," they are
                            told, had no such sin as theirs. "Their righteousness is sin," the Judge
                            tells them, "whereas the same deserveth Shame and meriteth Damnation."
                            Thus the ideal of morality itself is abrogated in order to "glorify God
                            as God" in the damnation of civil honest men. Fortunately for the world,
                            theories that controvert fundamental intuitions are likely to be only
                            speculatively believed. Neither Cotton nor Wigglesworth could have been
                            as bad as his theory; in practice they probably respected honest men and
                            detested scoundrels regardless of theological considerations. But such
                            speculations when they reached weaker natures would serve as pretexts
                            for immorality.
                    
                    
                    
                        XVIII.
                        "Take heed," wrote Herbert of Cherbury to a friend, in 1617, "of
                            superstition and blasphemy, and above all that you make not a worse God
                            than yourself.
                                The God of that age.
                            " In these words he touched the weakness of the age: moral
                            judgments were off their center when men adored a God worse than the
                            worshipers. It seems like a paradox, yet it is true, that the more
                            intensely religious a people were in that time the worse was their
                            representation of the Deity. The great and long-continued popularity of
                            Wigglesworth's Day of Doom in New England makes it good evidence in this
                            case. His damnation scene is medivally horrible:
                        
                            They cry, they roar, for anguish sore
                            and gnash their Tongues for horror:
                            But get away without delay,
                            Christ pities not your cry,
                            Depart to Hell, there you may yell
                            and roar eternally.
                        
                        There are passages more ghastly than this, but why disfigure white paper
                            with them? God is made the direct ruthless agent of physical torture
                            everlasting, kept up for no conceivable end but his own glory.... "God's
                            direful wrath, their bodies hath forever immortal made... And live they
                            must while God is just, that he may Plague them so." A popular versifier
                            like Wigglesworth, and he bred up among pioneers and Puritans, may be
                            thought to hold views more extreme than those of his age. But Archdeacon
                            Hakewill, much esteemed  for learning and
                            philosophy, could write the same thing with more dignity of expression:
                            "Our fire hath neede to be fed continually with wood and fewell.
                                Apologie, etc., 1627, P572
                            ... that burneth eternally without feed... for that the breath of
                            the Lords owne mouth doth blow and nourish it.
                                The same, 513.
                            " The monarchical idea dominates the thought of the time.
                                Compo also Tymme's Silver Watch Bell, 1625, pp. 90, 91, and many
                                    others.
                             Hakewill does not shrink from comparing the ingeniously cruel
                            torments which vengeful kings had inflicted on their foes to God's
                            punishment of sinners, and says that "so terrible is the judge to his
                            enemies that he hath devised a wonderful way how to torment them," and
                            that his "invention that way is as farre beyond the reach of all mortall
                            wits as his power.
                                Damnation of unbaptized infants.
                            " Words of piety these, rank blasphemy none the less.
                                Note 21.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        XIX.
                        Irresponsible infants were condemned to perdition by the ruthlessly
                            systematic theology of the seventeenth century, and this also for the
                            glory of the God who made them. The medival churchly doctrine that none
                            could be saved without the sacrament of baptism had carried with it the
                            harsh corollary that many infants were damned, some of them lost through
                            mere accident or inadvertence. Cranmer's Catechism of 1548 declares that
                            the children of heathen parents will be "damned everlastingly" for want
                            of baptism, and in this he follows the Lutherans of the same period. In
                            the next century Archbishop Laud, while affirming that baptism  is necessary to salvation, declines to
                            bind God to the sacrament, probably from his habitual dislike of
                            constitutional limitations to sovereign power.
                                Laud's Conference with Fisher, ed. 1673, p. 36.
                             But the popular belief remained, after the Reformation as
                            before, that a child dying unbaptized was doomed.
                                Byrd's Dividing Line, 1728, passim.
                             In the dark ages of Virginia and Maryland the parishes were very
                            long-suffering in their dealings with tavern-haunting, brawling, and
                            sometimes almost criminal parsons, apparently from fear of having their
                            children grow up nameless heathens or die heirs of perdition for want of
                                baptism.
                                Damnation of non-elect infants.
                             North Carolina had few clergymen even in the eighteenth century,
                            and one finds the settlers plodding many rough miles, each with his
                            covey of offspring, to intercept a wayfaring parson at some wayside
                            spring and thus secure a chance of salvation for the young natives.
                            Governor Eden of that colony wrote to the Propagation Society lamenting
                            especially that "above fourscore" infants had perished unbaptized in the
                            massacre by the Tuscaroras in 1712. This view of the massacre is
                            rendered more picturesque when we remember that Eden was the governor
                            who sheltered Blackbeard the pirate, and almost certainly shared his
                            plunder.
                    
                    
                        XX.
                        The Church of England divines feared that unbaptized infants might be
                            damned because of some one else's fault, but the Calvinistic portion of
                            the religious world was certain of the damnation  of non-elect infants, baptized or unbaptized.
                                Note 22.
                             Even John Robinson, of Leyden, the sweet-hearted pastor of the
                            Pilgrims, could not escape this horrible conclusion, though he seems to
                            accept it with a sore heart and averted face.
                                The Principles of the Protestant Religion maintained agt. Geo.
                                    Keith.
                             It was the misery of religion in that day that good men
                            worshiped a God less just and merciful than themselves.
                                Note 23.
                             As late as 1690 "the ministers of the Gospel in Boston"
                            published a defense of infant damnation in reply to a Quaker who
                            disliked the doctrine.
                                Note 24.
                             The Boston ministers did not, as the Anglicans did, leave a
                            narrow fringe of uncertainty. They averred, as others of their school of
                            thought had done long before, that an obscure phrase in St. Paul's most
                            obscure epistle rendered it certain that some infants had already been
                            damned for eating the forbidden fruit by proxy before they were born. On
                            the other hand, Wigglesworth, the doggerel Dante of pioneer New England,
                            reserved the damnation of unlucky babes to make an effective scene at
                            the day of doom. The widespread circulation of his verses must have sown
                            broadcast notions out of which every bereaved mother could build a
                            tabernacle of perdition for her desolate soul. Minds so simply serious
                            failed to see the bouffe grotesqueness of the speeches
                            put into the mouth of the Divine Judge, whom Wigglesworth makes a little
                            lower than a pettifogging country justice. The foredoomed infants argue
                            their case rather cleverly, and, from a modern point of view, they get
                            the best of it. But Christ, the Judge, has  the last word, and when they remind him that while Adam is saved they
                            are damned for Adam's sln
                        
                            Then answered the Judge most dread,
                            God doth such doom forbid,
                            That men should die Eternally
                            for what they never did;
                            But what you call Old Adam's Fall
                            and only his Trespass,
                            You call amiss to call it his,
                            both his and yours it was.
                        
                        This is followed by a disquisition on original sin, delivered by the
                            Judge for the edification of the lost infants or to clear the minds of
                            the assembled universe.
                                Note 25.
                             The infants are assured that they are sinners, and can expect
                            only a sinner's share, for I do save none but mine own elect.
                                Strophe 165.
                            " The colloquy, evidently growing embarrassing, is cut short by a
                            verdict which reverts to the Judge's only reliancethe sin of Adam:
                        
                            A crime it is, therefore in bliss
                            you may not hope to dwell:
                            But unto you I shall allow
                            the easiest room in hell.
                        
                    
                    
                        XXI.
                        Beautiful and merciful lives have blossomed and borne fruit under the
                            shadow of harsh and repulsive beliefs.
                                Strophe 181.
                             It would be easy to fall into the error of exaggerating the evil
                            effects of creeds of iron.
                                Note 26.
                             At a certain stage of social development the severity of a
                            dominant creed sometimes serves a useful purpose of repression where
                            repression is needed.
                                Harsh devotion.
                             The seventeenth century had inherited  most of its harsh doctrines in some shape from the
                            schoolmen or the Church fathers, and it set itself to forge them into
                            formal creeds for its own enthrallment.
                                Note 27.
                             The welding of doctrines into elaborate and systematic
                            confessions and the writing of concise expressions of the quintessence
                            of dogmatic theology in innumerable catechisms were regarded as a sort
                            of heavenly vocation.
                                Ps. cix.
                             Antique doctrines tinged with the barbarism of older ages, when
                            thus formally propounded and authoritatively imposed, served to blur the
                            ideal of even-handed justice and arrest the growth of humane sentiments.
                            The gentler side of Scripture teaching was more or less obscured in an
                            age when master teachers insisted on giving a perpetual divine authority
                            to the sternest laws of the early Hebrews. It was an age that embittered
                            its devotions by singing unsoftened the imprecatory psalms. It was a
                            matter of obligation to sing all the psalms, even such vindictive verses
                            as these in the New England Bay Psalm Book of 1640 :
                        
                            And let the prayer that he doth make
                            be turned into sinne;
                            His children let be fatherless
                            and's wife a widow make.
                            Let's children still be vagabonds,
                            begge they their bread also;
                            Out of their places desolate
                            let them a seeking go.
                        
                        The primitive ferocity of such prayers is not chargeable to Puritanism;
                            the versifiers of the Bay Psalm Book had heard the Sternhold and  Hopkins version sung in English churches
                            from infancy, and had probably used it for their primary reading book in
                            school. It had accustomed them to such lines as these:
                        
                            Yea blessed shall that man be cald
                            that takes thy children yong
                            To dash their bones against hard stones
                            that lye the streets among.
                        
                        Thus sang the Virginia and the Maryland churchmen, and thus also the New
                            York and Carolina churchmen. The metrical version made by the poet
                            George Sandys, once Secretary of the Virginia Colony, was far more
                            elegant and was "set to new tunes for private devotion." But even Sandys
                            will have the Christian in his closet pronounce a blessing on the men
                        
                            That dash thy children's brains against the stones
                            And without pity hear their dying groans.
                        
                        This non-Christian corn mingling of revenge and religion gave force to
                            the hatred for heretics and embittered persecution and religious
                            contests. Hear the bitter words of Ward, a New England minister, against
                            the Irish rebels: "Cursed be he that holdeth back his sword from blood,
                            yea cursed be he that maketh not his sword starke drunk with Irish
                            blood," and so on breathlessly to the end. These words of Nathaniel Ward
                            were printed in London in 1647; two years later Cromwell translated them
                            into ghastly fact by the pitiless slaughters of Drogheda and
                        Wexford.
                    
                    
                    
                        XXII.
                        The dash of fanaticism in the religion of the time and the narrow and
                            literal adherence to the precedents found in the most ancient Hebrew
                            Scriptures had something to do with the lack of humaneness in the law
                            and its administration.
                                Brutality in sports.
                             For this reason ecclesiastics of all schools were often more
                            ruthless than laymen; they carried their pitiless severity up to the
                            credit of their piety.
                                Note 28.
                             Massachusetts clergymen protested in 1635 against Winthrop for a
                            leniency that to the modern man seems severe. In the controversy with
                            the Gortonists the Massachusetts clergy advised that men not properly
                            subject to the colony should be hanged for constructive blasphemy, but
                            the magistrates were wiser or less zealous. The clerical profession, by
                            its very nature, is more dominated by ideal considerations than others,
                            and the severity of clergymen in governmental affairs is not necessarily
                            from harshness of spirit, but rather from devotion to an ideal of
                            conduct. The pressure of religious feeling in former ages was often
                            distinctly opposed to the sentiment of humanity., But the seventeenth
                            century needed no religious persuasion to severity; it was not at all a
                            humane age. Traces of medival barbarism are found in the laws, in the
                            customs, and in the brutal sports of the people, as well as in the
                            sermons and other ecclesiastical deliverances. For generations the
                            thoughtless populace had taken a savage delight in seeing bulls and  bears baited to the death with fierce
                            dogs; in an exceptional case a horse was turned over to be torn by
                            mastiffs for the delight of the people.
                                Beschreibung and Contrefacture der Vornehmster Statt der Welte,
                                    1574.
                             Bear baiting was the favorite way of spending the Sunday
                            afternoon in Elizabeth's reign.
                                Compare the opinion of Mr. Perkins and Mr. Bolton...
                                    concerning... cockfighting, 1660. Harl. Miscell., vol. Vi,
                                122.
                             One finds in a view of London in 1574 two buildings on the
                            Bankside, "The Bowll Baytinge "and "The Bear Baytinge," carefully
                            indicated as places of chief interest.
                                Note 29.
                             After the scaffolding fell with fatal results at the bear
                            baiting on Sunday in 1583 the people became superstitiously afraid of
                            such sports on Sunday, but they were enjoyed on week days without
                            suspicion of wrongdoing.
                                Note 30.
                             Some of the later Puritans argued that as the animosity of
                            animals to one another was the result of man's sin, men ought not to
                            make sport out of it. The suffering of the animal is rarely alluded to
                            in these debates; theology did not care for bulls and bears.
                            Cockfighting had been for ages a reputable sport, highly praised by such
                            men as Ascham, the tender-hearted school reformer, and it was practiced
                            (annually or oftener) in schoolrooms apparently as a part of education.
                            Against this also some later Puritans protested. As late as 1737 an
                            English traveler says that Continental people were accustomed to
                            complain of the cruelty of "the sports of our vulgar "the very charge
                            Anglo-Saxons are wont to make against the Spaniards to-day. Bull baiting
                            and the tormenting of tame bears were not imported to America; bulls
                            were too scarce and valuable, and bears were too plentiful and fierce
                            But the relish for inhumane  sports
                                remained.
                                Liberty, 92. Comp. also 93.
                             Entrapped wolves were made to sell their lives in a bloody fray
                            with mastiffs, or were tied to the tail of a wild horse to be kicked and
                            dragged to death.
                                Paige, Hist. of Cambridge, 217.
                             Josselyn speaks of some large New England bird, which he calls a
                            "cormorant," as making rare sport when wounded and turned loose to be
                            badgered by dogs. Animals appear to have been preferably put to death by
                            dogs. One finds Archbishop Sandys in Elizabeth's time trying to recover
                            a "brinded dog," and complaining that he had never a dog with which to
                            kill some bucks that had lately been given him. Puritanism was
                            reformatory, though it could never go far beyond its age, and did not
                            break the tether by which the great Cartwright in the sixteenth century
                            had tied it to the temporal laws of the Jews. Massachusetts had gone to
                            the limit by its creditable and ungrammatical law of 1641 against
                            "Crueltie to any bruite creature which are usuallie kept for man's use."
                            The wild creatures were left with-out the pale for want of Mosaic
                            precedent, no doubt. In Virginia and Maryland cockfighting was a
                            gentlemanly and Christian amusement throughout the colonial time. The
                            laws of the Puritan colonies show that the reformatory spirit in
                            Puritanism had begun to soften a little the harsh cruelty of law and its
                            administration at the time, but notwithstanding prohibitions against
                            cruel and unusual punishments, burning to death took place in Boston and
                            Cambridge and pressing to death was resorted to in the witchcraft trials
                            in Salem.
                        
                        Punishments more barbarous, if possible, were inflicted in other
                                colonies.
                                Obligation of worship.
                             Legal torture to produce confession was in use in New
                            Netherlands under Dutch rule.
                                Virginia's Cure, 1662, P. 4. Force, iii.
                             In Pennsylvania a gradual translation of Quaker theories of
                            non-resistance into milder laws took place, and the administration of
                            the law was less severe than the law.
                                Cal. Col. Pprs., Nos. 337-339. Comp. 123.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        XXIII.
                        The obligation of worship, as we have seen, was thought to be infinitely
                            greater than moral duty. "The languishing and improsperous condition "of
                            the Virginians after the Restoration was not attributed to the
                            strangling of their commerce by the enforcement of the Navigation Act,
                            but to the neglect of the people, mainly on account of physical
                            impediments, to render to God with regularity "that publicke Worship and
                            Service which is a Homage due to his great name." For this "sacriledge
                            "the people were believed to be under a curse. In 1677 the Bishop of
                            London took Virginia in hand and set about reforming a colony that by
                            all accounts needed attention. He proposed that the thinly settled
                            planters should be compelled to renounce the "profane custom of burying
                            in their gardens and orchards," and forced to give up their habit of
                            accepting such marriage as they could get from men not ordained, in a
                            land where men in orders were exceedingly few, often dissolute, and
                            frequently so far away as to be  reached
                            only by a tedious sloop voyage, down one river and up another.
                                Comp. Gatford's Public Good without Private Int., 1657. Morgan
                                    Godwyn's Negro's and Indian's Advocate, 1680 and many
                                others.
                             There were things in the colony infinitely worse than the
                            Virginia graveyard at the back of the garden to preserve it from
                            prowling wolves, and the conservation of social order by marriage at the
                            hands of clerks and lay readers, failing a better.
                                Hugh Jones, Present State of Va., 1724, pp. 68, 69.
                             But to Bishop Compton, as to others in that antique world,
                            ecclesiastical impropriety, even when well-nigh unavoidable, was a sin
                            more heinous than the oppression of bondsmen and unregulated
                                morals.
                                MS. Records York Co., Va., p. 61, Va. State Library.
                            
                        
                        Virginia had been settled when no hard-and-fast line had yet been drawn
                            between Puritan and non-Puritan churchmen, and its church cherished
                            both, retaining down to the Revolution the partycolor of the transition
                            period in which it was planted. Its clergy wore no surplices for more
                            than a hundred years after the settlement, and in some parishes the
                            eucharist was taken in a sitting posture. In New England the sacraments
                            were hard to come by; in some parts of Virginia they could not be
                            refused. One Virginian, in 1645, was threatened for refusing to go to
                            communion in his parish church and required to bring to the next session
                            of the court a certificate that he had reformed in this particular. In
                            New England the baptism of babes was not always to be had for the
                            asking; Virginians who declined baptism for their children were
                            sometimes dealt with.
                    
                    
                    
                        XXIV.
                        In the Puritan attempt to reconstruct the Church on a scriptural model,
                            all sorts of scruples had an opportunity to crystallize. The coupling of
                            pastors and teachers in Paul's writings was a source of trouble and
                                debate.
                                Eccentricities of Church government.
                             The notion that the pastoral office was dual appeared in the
                            ferments among the excited English Protestants at Frankfort before the
                            accession of Elizabeth, it was a trait of the Dutch church life in the
                            seventeenth century, and it was elaborated among the English Separatists
                            before 1582.
                                Note 31.
                             In New England each church undertook to sustain two ministers in
                            the hard conditions of pioneer life where the burden of one might have
                            been thought too much. A ruling elder and several deacons shared
                            authority with the "pastor" and the "teacher "; to complete the
                            hierarchy, "ancient widows" were concluded to be church officers from
                            their position in the Pauline epistles. This system in five tiers,
                            originally separatist, was brought to America, in theory at least, by
                            the Pilgrims, and, after discussion, came to be adopted by most of the
                            Massachusetts churches. No plan could well have suited less with
                            frontier conditions. The support of two ministers was an irksome
                            financial burden; a double leadership promoted factions; ministers in
                            the second generation were scarce; and the dual system, unsuited to the
                            environment, went into swift obsolescence in spite of the lament of
                            idealists  and the futile efforts of the
                            Synod of 1679 to restore the double pastorate of the founders. The
                            unnecessary ruling elder went out more gradually, and the proposed
                            ecclesiastical widows were found impossible from the first, in a new
                            country where every woman not decrepit was sure to be sought in
                            marriage.
                    
                    
                        XXV.
                        John Cotton says Satan has "mightily bestirred himself" in suggesting
                            doubts about psalm singing.
                                Winthrop's Journal. vol. i, 38, note.
                             It was a question whether psalm singing was to be allowed at
                                all.
                                Note 32.
                             It was held that Scripture psalms were not to be sung, but only
                            songs "indited by some personall spirituall gift of some officer or
                            member of the church.
                                Scruples about psalm singing.
                            " Then there were other scruple-breeders who thought that one
                            should sing and all the rest content themselves with saying "Amen.
                                Cotton's Singing of Psalms a Gospel Ordinance. Compare Gospel
                                    Musick or the singing of David's Psalms, 1644, with Preface to
                                    New England Psalm Book and Wm. Ames's A Sound out of Zion and
                                    others.
                            " It was a question whether women should be suffered to sing, and
                            it was proposed to confine vocal music to godly men regardless of their
                            voices, not allowing "carnall men and Pagans" to join in public
                                singing.
                                Barclay's Inner Life, 106.
                             There were other propositions of the sort, but as Cotton opposed
                            them and attributed them to Satan, we need not drag them out of their
                            centuries of oblivion. One that Cotton does not mention was that of the
                            saintly Separatist and master scruple-monger, Smyth, of Amsterdam, who
                            regarded it as "unlawful to have the book before the eye in the time of
                            singing a psalm." The Pilgrims of Leyden, on the  other hand, would not read the psalm line by line as sung,
                            until at length they adopted the common mode of the time out of regard
                            for a brother who could not read.
                                Note 33.
                             To such extremes did anti-ritualism go. A scruple against using
                            music books in service time caused musical notation to be forgotten
                            almost throughout New England in the seventeenth century. The number of
                            tunes in general use was about eight or ten, and in certain
                            congregations but half that number. In some places the worship was
                            without singing, failing any one who could "take the run of the tune,"
                            as the phrase was. Familiar tunes were corrupted in oral transmission;
                            the same tune varied essentially in congregations a few miles apart; in
                            some places the name of an old tune was all that could be recognized,
                            the music having been "miserably tortured and twisted and quavered into
                            a horrible medley of confused and disorderly noises." A writer of 1721
                            declares that the music was so "dragged" that it was necessary sometimes
                            to take breath twice in one note. Psalm singing in the other colonies
                            was probably not better than that in New England. In the Anglican
                            churches, as in Puritan worship, the psalm to be sung was read off line
                            by line before the several lines were sung. One of the reforms advocated
                            by Commissary Bray during his brief dash into Maryland in 1700 was the
                            teaching of catechumens to sing the psalm "artificially." Even at the
                            beginning of the Revolution Boucher declares that the psalmody was
                            everywhere "ordinary and mean."
                        
                        There were not six organs in Maryland and Virginia, and there were
                            churches in which there was no singing at all.
                                Conn. Valley Hist. Society Collections, 42. N. E. Chronicle, passim.
                                
                             Scruples aside, the obsolescence of music in New England was
                            probably inevitable.
                                Preface to New England version of the Psalms, 1640. The so-called
                                    "Bay Psalm Book."
                             But when soon after 1700 efforts were made to introduce music
                            books into Puritan meeting-houses a sol-fa controversy arose, the
                            conservative mind imagining that devotion itself would perish if written
                            music displaced the barbarous discord that harmonized with bare and
                            square architecture.
                                Mulcaster's Positions, 38.
                             In the preface to the New England Psalm Book the versifiers wind
                            their logic through a sinuous argument to prove that the use of
                            instrumental music in Jewish worship was "ceremoniall," while the psalm
                            singing itself was "morall" and of perpetual obligation.
                                The multitude of scruples.
                             The preface makes a merit of the roughhewn literalness of the
                            version urging that "God's altar needs not our pollietys." Beneath this
                            ostensible argument lay an element of all austere systems of morality, a
                            notion that pleasure had something reprehensible about it. People
                            opposed church music on this ground, accusing it of "bewitching the mind
                            with syrenes sound." But colonial psalm singing could hardly be charged
                            with such perilous seductions.
                    
                    
                        XXVI.
                        New England did not stop with forbidding music books; in spite of
                            Cotton's judgment to the contrary, the Bible itself was excluded from
                            the  service for fear of ritualism, except
                            where the reading was for immediate exposition.
                                Mather's Ratio Discipl., 65. Lewis's Lynn, 106. Turell's Life of
                                    Coleman, PP. 42, 178. Compare Sewall's Diary, ii, 394.
                             In 1699, when Puritanism was fast losing its vigor, the new
                            Brattle Street Church in Boston took the bold step of having passages
                            from the Bible read as a part of public worship.
                                Magnalia, iii, 121, folio ed. Nug Antiq., passim.
                                
                             Colman, the Brattle Street pastor, was so bold a ritualist as to
                            repeat the Lord's Prayer after his own.
                                Lewis's Lynn, 108. Sewall, iii, 279. Prince's Annals under Oct.
                                    5, 1629.
                             Very slowly these new decencies of worship made their way. A
                            church organ was too "ceremonial" even for the innovating Brattle Street
                            Church, which refused a proffered gift of one. Not only must music be
                            sung by rote and prayers not be read, but sermons must be given without
                            notes. Warham, the first to use notes in the pulpit, was "much faulted
                            for it." Puritanism habitually regarded religion and beauty as
                            antagonists. Its leaders in England condemned the use of rhetorical
                            ornaments, particularly those drawn from heathen sources. The bare
                            hardness of expression and the absence of anything like style in early
                            New England sermons was probably voluntary at first. Little conventional
                            decorums, like the ring in marriage and marriage by a minister, and
                            receiving the eucharist without gloves on, were the butt of scruples. At
                            their first coming the New-Englanders called their places of worship
                            churches, but here was a fine opening for scrupulosity. In order not to
                            ascribe sacredness to a building, the merely descriptive term
                            meeting-house was substituted, that being wholly free from any pleasant
                            or decorous association  tion A minister
                            might not pray over a newmade grave; it would grow into prayer for the
                                dead.
                                I Mass. Hist. Soc. Coi., iv, 138.
                             As there was no axe or hammer heard in the Jewish temple work,
                            the Plymouth Pilgrims refused to take the negative in asking the assent
                            of the church to a conclusion of the elders, and perhaps for the same
                            reason the early Massachusetts churches formally confirmed the choice of
                            a pastor by "silent votes" of some sort in the presence of the
                                magistrates.
                                Note 34.
                             Strangest of all was the scruple generally accepted at first
                            that obliged women to wear veils during public worship.
                                Minor scruples.
                             After Cotton's arrival and opposition, it was only in Salem,
                            where Endecott was the chief upholder of the practice, that all the
                            women went to meeting veiled, as if to deprive public worship of its
                            last element of extraneous interest.
                    
                    
                        XXVII.
                        Minor Many scruples of that age must pass unnoticed; a few others we may
                            select for their bric-a-brac interest. The giving to children pious and
                            significant names was not primarily a Puritan notion; Bishop Jewell has
                            a whole page of black letter in favor of it, and he derives it from
                            Chrysostom, the Church father. Cartwright, the Puritan leader of
                            Elizabeth's time, also opposed the giving of pagan names to children.
                            The scruple was too congenial to the Puritan mind not to find a place in
                            New England, and the early Latin canons, already quoted,  forbade the giving of "barbarous and
                            superstitious names," and recommended those that are "expressed in
                            sacred letters.
                                CHAP IV
                            " New England accordingly blossomed, not only with Hebrew names
                            whose frequent incongruity with Saxon surnames was not then felt, but
                            also with nouns, verbs, and participles, such as Love, Hope, Unite,
                            Increase, Seaborn, Preserved, Wrastle, Humility, Supply, Hopestill,
                            Waitstill, and other significant and hortatory words, some of them given
                            indifferently to either sex.
                                Note 35.
                             But the practice did not take deep root, and it was one of the
                            first peculiarities to disappear with the relaxing of Puritanism when
                            New England life began to line up again with English traditions in the
                            second half of the century.
                                Note 36.
                             The scruple against taking interest on money prevailed widely
                            among religious people generally, and the matter was much debated, but
                            New England seems to have escaped thralldom to a precept so
                                illogical.
                                Win-throp's letter to Sir N. Rich.
                             In a new country where capital is lacking nd opportunities for
                            its profitable use are many, the reasonableness of an interest charge is
                            evident, and a scruple about usury is too expensive to be afforded.
                            Under the circumstances, the law forbidding the Jews to lend on interest
                            to one another became ceremonial, on what ground does not appear.
                        Another instance of this narrow scripturism is found in the aversion to a
                            census. In 1634, when population of Massachusetts was estimated at four
                            thousand, the magistrates did not dare enumerate them on account of
                            "David's example," and  it is probably
                            owing to this fear that we are without trustworthy information regarding
                            the growth of population in the colonies.
                                Docs. rel. to N.Y., v, 339, 459.
                             In 1712 Hunter, Governor of New York, proposed to ignore David's
                            example, but the fear of the people defeated his attempt to secure a
                            census of that colony, there having been an epidemic after an earlier
                                count.
                                Smith' Hist. N.Y., 302.
                             By numbering the freemen not in the militia, and adding in the
                            already known number of militiamen, he learned the number of men. The
                            women and children were afterward taken separately, and the inquisitive
                            governor found means of counting, probably from tax lists, the white and
                            black bondsmen. Simple addition did the rest, and there was no
                            pestilence. The inhabitants of New Jersey, "being generally of New
                            England extraction, and thereby enthusiasts," as Governor Hunter said,
                            "were more difficult to count." In a later census of New York, females
                            above sixty years of age were omitted. This bit of chicane practiced
                            against Omniscience allayed the pious fears of the people.
                            New-Englanders were not the only enthusiasts on this subject. Even after
                            the Revolution, Pennsylvanians attributed an epidemic of yellow fever to
                            the first United States census.
                    
                    
                        XXVIII.
                        Puritanism made one great contribution to human culture. More
                            emphatically than any other movement of modern times, it taught the
                            supremacy  of conscience.
                                Winthrop's Journal, i, 158; ii, 114.
                             There were instances of men who slew their natural affections in
                            a sublime devotion to duty as they understood it.
                                Comp. Nichol's Eng. Poor Law, i, 219.
                             A minister felt bound to report the seditious speeches of his
                            son, and a magistrate sentenced his own daughter to the whipping-post.
                            Conscience could not long remain at high tide, the ebb was inevitable.
                            The last half of the seventeenth century saw a swift declension from
                            primitive Puritan ideals. But through such temporary and aberrant
                            exercises the moral nature of the race is developed; by such efforts to
                            attain a visionary and impossible excellence is the sense of right and
                            wrong made strenuous enough to refuse the bribes of sensuality and of
                            worldly ambition. The successors of those who exercised their
                            consciences on frivolous judgments about apparel, psalm singing, and
                            imaginary idolatries in the names of islands and days, may put their
                            hereditary strenuousness or their traditional preference for ethical
                            considerations into the promotion of substantial social betterments. The
                            ferment may not be pleasant, but the brew is good at the last. The
                            weakness of Puritanism was the weakness of its age. The Virginia
                            justice, like the New England magistrate, toiled at the task of
                            reformation by punishing with fines, and stocks, and branks, and ducking
                            stool, and whipping-post, offenders for lying, swearing, scolding,
                            drunkenness, and other sins. Such was the English method in the Stuart
                            period. Neither among Puritans nor among Anglicans was there any clear
                            vision of the spiritual advantage of 
                            morality, it was the outside of the cup and platter that got all this
                                rubbing.
                                Note I, page 144.
                             But Pharisaism is a stage in human progress. More objectionable
                            than the externalism was the absence of humanity. The pitiless
                            penalties, the punishments inflicted on mere children and on half-insane
                            women for hysterical words and acts, the ruthless creeds, the ferocious
                            pursuit of the weak and defenseless accused of witchcraft or heresy, the
                            unreproved delight of the mob in seeing brutes torn to pieces by dogs,
                            provoke something like execration. But condemnation dies upon the lips
                            when we reflect that ages to come may find many things damnable in the
                            civilization of a more modern time.
                    
                    
                        ELUCIDATIONS.
                        Down to the Revolution class distinctions were sharply marked, especially
                            in New York and Virginia. Compare Castiglioni, Viaggi negli Stati Uniti,
                                passim, Pictet's Tableau des tats Unis, ii, 181,
                            and the remarks in Virginia Calender, i, p. ix, with many other
                            well-known authorities. The maintenance of social distinctions in the
                            assignment of seats in church was of course English. There is an
                            instance of elaborate classification according to the rank in the
                            Assembly Books of the Borough of Eye in 1650, in the Tenth Report of the
                            Royal Historical MSS. Commission, part iv, p. 534, where both the
                            northern and southern colonial ways are exemplified. The twenty-four
                            common councilmen of Eye sat together, as the burgesses did at Annapolis
                            in the eighteenth century. On the effect of the aristocratic
                            preconception in law, compare Cotton's proposed laws of 1641, where
                            three punishments are prescribed for slander. The third is, "By stripes
                            if the slander be gross, or odious against such persons whom a man ought
                            to honor and cherish, whether they be his superiors or in some degree of
                            equality with himself or his wife." Ward, who wrote the code preferred
                            to Cotton's, did not  like the referendum
                            by which his code was sent to be considered in the several towns.
                                Note 2, page 145.
                             "I question," he writes, "whether it be of God to interest the
                            inferior sort in that which should be reserved inter optimates penes
                            quos est sancire leges.
                                Note 3, page 145.
                            " Whitmore's Introduction to Code of 1660, p. 19.
                                Note 4, page 147.
                             There have been in every age those who demanded justice for the
                            lowly in the name of religion.
                                Note 5, page 147.
                             In an Anglo-Saxon manuscript of the tenth century a bishop is
                            enjoined not to suffer "any Christian man too greatly to injure another;
                            nor the powerful the weak, nor the higher the lower, . . . not even his
                            thralls, because they and those that are free are equally dear to God."
                            Institutes Civil and Ecclesiastical, published by the Record Commission.
                        The notion expressed in this beginning of the Assembly's Catechism was
                            perhaps suggested by the first question and answer in Calvin's
                            Catechism:
                        M. Quis human vit prcipuus est finis?
                        P. Ut Deum, a quo conditi stint homines ipsi noverint.
                        Compare the Select Cases of Conscience, by Shephard, of Cambridge, Mass.,
                            p. 14, and his Treatise on the Sabbath. A more moral theism than that of
                            the Westminster Assembly was held in that time by Sir Kenelm Digby, who
                            says, "Man is governed by God alwaies for the good of Man himself."
                        By the Constitution of 1638 the several plantations in Connecticut agreed
                            to "conjoyne our selves to be one Publike State or Comonwelth," and
                            entered into Combination and Confederation together, to mayntayne and
                            presearve the liberty and the purity of the Gospell of our Lord Jesus
                            which we now professe, as also the disciplyne of the churches which,
                            according to the truth of the said gospell, is now practiced amoungst
                            vs." Connecticut Records, i, 20. On this subordination of the State
                            compare Cotton's Abstract of Laws, iv, 4.
                        Cotton appeals to the favorite casuist of the Puritans, Dr. Perkins, who
                            held that the Scripture contains a "platforme, not onely of theology,
                            but also of other sacred sciences (as he calls them), . . . ethiks,
                            oeconomicks, politicks, church government, prophecy, academy." It was
                            characteristic of the age that this conclusion was not deduced from the
                            subject-matter of the Bible, but from the fitness of things. "It is very
                            suitable to God's all-sufficient wisdome," argues Cotton. Letter written
                            in 1636 to Lord Say and Seal in Hutchinson's Massachusetts, i, 497. In
                            the same letter Cotton writes: "Democracy, I do not conceyve that ever
                            God did  ordeyne as a fitt government
                            eyther for church or commonwealth.
                                Note 6, page 148.
                             If the people be governors, who shall be governed? As for
                            monarchy and aristocracy, they are both of them clearly approoved, and
                            directed in scripture, yet so as referreth the soveraigntie to himselfe,
                            and setteth up Theocracy in both, as the best form of government in the
                            commonwealth, as well as in the church.
                                Note 7, page 149.
                            "
                        About the same period Samuel Danforth, a student, afterward a well-known
                            minister and one of the earliest mathematicians in New England, refused
                            to recite the praises of the gods in heathen poetry, but saved the point
                            by amending his classics as he proceeded, to the disgust of his
                                tutor.
                                Note 8, page 153.
                             Cotton Mather adds a marvelous ending to this anecdote, to the
                            effect that the tutor was smitten with convulsions for reproving the
                            lad; but we may in turn take the liberty to revise Mather before
                                believing.
                                Note 9, page 155.
                             Magnalia iv, c. iii, 2.
                        Punishment for blaspheming was derived from the mediaeval codes. Antonius
                            Mattheeus the second, in his De Criminibus, published in 1644, p. 643,
                            says that in Holland the old rubric against blaspheming "the Mother of
                            God, the saints or saintesses "(Moeder Gods, oft den sancten, of
                            sanctinnen), was changed at the Reformation to a law against blasphemy
                            of Almighty God or his holy word. But Matthaeus quotes Plato's Minos
                            that it is an indignity to the Deity to speak evil of a "man like
                            himself"that is, any good man.
                        There were those apparently who evaded the law against health drinking by
                            merely drinking to one another. This is condemned in a Massachusetts act
                            of September, 1639, Records, i, 271. Compare the Pennsylvania law of
                            1682 and that of 1705 "Against Health Drinking," in which the tendency
                            to intemperance is made the ostensible reason. See also Winthrop's
                            Journal in various places. Practical reasons, such as the danger of
                            excess, probably lay below all the objections to health drinking, but it
                            was characteristic of the age that the religious reasons were sent to
                            the fore, especially by the earlier objectors. In the "Great Evil of
                            Health Drinking," published in 1684, the profaneness of the practice and
                            its danger are both urged. Retrospective Review, xii, 322. Health
                            drinking was thought to have been introduced into England at the time of
                            Sir John Norris's expedition to the Netherlandsthat is, after 1585.
                        "Every shred of Gold drawn out of a wedge of Gold is as much Gold as the
                            whole lumpe and wedge. Whatever is drawn 
                            out of the scripture by just consequence and deduction is as well the
                            word of God as that which is an expresse Commandment.
                                Note 10, page 155.
                            " Cotton's Grounds and Ends of the Baptisme of the Children, p.
                                4.
                                Note 11, page 155.
                            
                        
                        Ninth Report of Royal Commission on Hist. MSS., part i, appendix, p. 155,
                            Records of City of Canterbury, 1554-5: "Recd of Rich.
                                Note 12, page 156.
                             Orchardson, Shomaker, for openyng his wyndowes on a Sonday in
                            servyce tyme, and for that his chymney was on fyre by nyght, and for
                            that he was very poore he was forgevyn payment for the whole.
                                Note 13, page 160.
                            " This is said to be the first record of indictment for Sabbath
                            breaking.
                        Archdeacon Hakewill says in 1627: "Common swearing, simple fornication,
                            prophaning the Lord's Day and the like, in former times were scarce
                            knowne to be sinnes; but being now by the light of the Gospell
                            discovered to be such, and that in a high degree, as they are straitly
                            forbidden by God's Law, so is the edge of our Lawes turned against
                            them." Apologie, 466.
                        "Our pleasure likewise is, that the bishop of that diocesse take the like
                            straight order with all the Puritans and Precisians within the same,
                            either constraining them to conform themselves, or to leave the countrey
                            according to the lawes of the kingdome and canons of our church, and so
                            to strike equally on both hands against the contemners of our authority
                            and adversaries of our church. And as for our good people's lawfull
                            recreation, our pleasure likewise is, that, after the end of divine
                            service, our good people be not disturbed, letted or discouraged from
                            any lawful recreation, such as dancing, either men or women, archerie,
                            for men, leaping, vaulting or any other harmless recreation, nor from
                            having May games, Whitson ales, and Morris dances, and the setting of
                            May-poles and other sports therewith used, so as the same be had in due
                            and convenient time, without impediment or neglect of divine service;
                            and that women shall have leave to carry rushes to the church for the
                            decoring of it, according to their old custom." The King's Majesties
                            Declaration to his Subjects concerning lawful Sports to be used.
                        The allusions to the early Virginia life in the text are based on the
                            whole literature relating to colonial Virginia in print and manuscript,
                            and the authorities are too numerous for specification. The multitude of
                            documents of all sorts relating to Virginia life in the eighteenth
                            century throw a strong backward light on the earlier and ruder period,
                            but there is no lack of seventeenth 
                            century writings from which to make up a picture of the times.
                                Note 14, page 160.
                             The period has usually been misapprehended.
                                Note 15, page 163.
                             It is necessary to remember that until the last fifteen years of
                            the seventeenth century negro slavery was an insignificant element of
                            Virginia life.
                                Note 16, page 165.
                             This is one of the great points of difference from the later
                            period.
                        The reader is referred to my tracing of this early rise of Sabbathism in
                            The Beginners of a Nation. To the authorities there cited I here add
                            Cranmer's Catechism, so called, which I had not seen when that work
                            appeared. Its date is about 1548. "And therefore that this Christian
                            libertie maye be kepte and mainteyned, we now kepe no more the saboth on
                            Saturday as the Jews do, but we observe the Sondaye and certayne other
                            daies as the maistrates do iudge it convenient." This catechism was
                            rendered from a Latin version made by Justus Jonas of a German
                            catechism. The Lutheran catechism adds "the pastors of the churches" to
                            the magistrates in the passage quoted above. In both catechisms these
                            Sabbaths and holy days of human appointment are to be rather strictly
                            devoted to religious duties and not to idleness and "ungodly works."
                            Compare Catechism of Thomas Becon, chaplain to Cranmer, pp. 82, 83,
                            where the ground is substantially the same.
                        Laxity in Sabbath keeping brought "Wrath Fires and other judgments upon a
                            professing people," declared the Synod of 1679. There are traces of this
                            association of fires with neglect of the Sabbath or divine worship in
                            several places. Compare Plymouth Records, v, 177. Penhallow, writing in
                            1725 of the eastern Indian wars, says very ambiguously, "It is
                            remarkably observable that among all the settlements and towns of figure
                            and distinction, not one of them have been utterly destroyed wherever a
                            church was gathered." Perhaps churches were rarely "gathered " in
                            pioneer towns. Compare the "nede and povertie " anciently believed to
                            befall Sabbath breakers, as in Cranmer's Catechism of 1548 on the
                            "thirde precepte," Oxford edition, 1829, p. 43, and the corresponding
                            Latin of Justus Jonas, 1539, in the same volume, p. 33.
                        During Puritan domination in Maryland a man was arrested the charge being
                            "that hee shott and kild a turkey upon Sunday Contrairie to the said Act
                            "of Assembly, but he was allowed to go free on declaring himself "sorie
                            for his Offense." Hanson's Old Kent, 212.
                        
                        Something like the principle I have formulated, though not quite the
                            same, may be traced in Beccaria, when in his Dei Delitti e delle Pene,
                            he says that strong emotions, born of enthusiasm, when they become
                            enfeebled and wasted by time, gradually become the wisdom of the age and
                            a useful instrument in strong and expert hands.
                                Note 17, page 168.
                             "Le passioni forti, figle del fanatismo e del entusiasmo
                            indebolite e rose, diro cosi, dal tempo, che riduce tutti i fenomeni
                            fisici e morali all' equilibrio diventano, a poco a poco, la prudenza
                            del secolo, e lo stromento utile in mano forte e dell' accorto.
                                Note 18, page 168.
                            "
                        Earlier than the change of evangelicalism to philanthropy came the
                            outgrowth of a similar altruism from the enthusiasm of the early
                                Quakers.
                                Note 19, page 170.
                             I have reserved the treatment of this development of the
                            reformatory spirit for a future volume of this series, in which there
                            will be occasion to study the origins and results of Quakerism in
                            examining the rise of the West Jersey and Pennsylvania colonies.
                                Note 20, page 172.
                            
                        
                        On pp. 4 and 5 of the Practice of Piety some of the things that must be
                            known are thus set forth for a hair-splitting generation: "In the Vnity
                            of the Godhead there is a plurality which is not accidentall (for God is a most pure act and admits no accidents) nor essentiall (for God is one
                            Essence only) but personall." There are pages of this ethereal
                            verbalism. In the Select Cases of Conscience, by Shephard, of Cambridge,
                            Mass., there is an abstruse disquisition "Of Conceiving aright of the
                            Holy Trinity," and another "Of Ordering the thoughts aright in Civil
                            Employments." From one on "Sinful Distractions" this example of the
                            absence of a discriminating sense of proportion will serve: "You do not
                            onely deserve, but are under the sentence of death and curse of God,
                            immediately after the least hairs-breadth swarving from the Law by the
                            smallest Sinne, and most involuntary accidentall infirmity," "the least
                            sinne being (ex parte objecti), in respect of God against whom it is
                            committed, as horrible and as great as the greatest." There were those
                            who maintained that ringing chimes on Sunday was as great an offense as
                            parricide, any sin being, in Shephard's phrase, "the dishonoring of
                            infinite Majesty," pp. 13, 14.
                        The Westminster Assembly, in trying to avoid the incongruity of
                            condemning a man for good works, takes the dilemma by both horns. "Works
                            done by unregenerate men although for the matter of them . . . they are
                            sinful, . . . yet their neglect  of them
                            is more sinful and displeasing with God.
                                Note 21, page 174.
                            " The Humble Advice of the Assembly of Divines, etc.
                        Cranmer's Catechism of 1548, edition of 1829, p. 51, says, "If we should
                            have heathen parents and dye without baptisme, we should be damned
                            everlastingly." Cranmer here follows closely the Lutheran version, which
                            reads: "Quando autem Ethnicos et impios parentes haberemus, et sine
                            baptisme moreremur, in ternum damnaremur." The phrases of the catechism
                            of Nowell, such as "digni terna damnative," as applied to the
                            unbaptized, have the inclusiveness of the church catechism, of which
                            Nowell was probably the author. Thomas Becon, chaplain to Cranmer, in
                            his elaborate catechism, vehemently repudiates the notion that Christian
                            children dying without baptism are damned, but his arguments leave no
                            room for the salvation of the infants of heathen parents. Parker Society
                            edition, p. 22 and following. Bishop Jewell admits the possible
                            salvation of men without the sacrament, and cites the penitent thief,
                            but such cases he treats as exceptional. Works, 1611, p. 261 and
                            following. Anglican theologians in the seventeenth century generally
                            content themselves with ascribing saving virtue to baptism, but they
                            seem to shrink from the converse, that all children unbaptized will be
                            damned, which was yet the general belief. Jeremy Taylor, in his Life of
                            the Holy Jesus, section ix, discourse vi, pt. ii, 24, does not follow
                            the "hard father of the children," Augustine, in denying salvation to
                            unbaptized infants, but he can not escape from the prevailing ambiguity
                            of his class. He says "well may we lament the death of poor babes"
                            unbaptized, because if it is due to the parents' neglect "we may weep as
                            those that have no hope." He throws the matter on God's goodness, but
                            with much dubiety. This narrow admission of unauthorized hope made the
                            Anglican by so much more modern and humane than such fathers as Ambrose
                            and Augustine on the one hand, and the Calvinist divines of the time on
                            the other. The value attached to baptism by the people is very evident.
                            There is somewhere an anecdote of two scapegrace parsons from Virginia,
                            who paid the expenses of a junketing tour in North Carolina by fees for
                            baptism. Story, the Quaker preacher, in 1699, heard a woman publicly
                            reproach Lillingston, the incumbent of a Maryland parish, with having
                            demanded a hogshead of tobacco for baptizing each of her five children.
                            Story's Journal, 229. It was believed in Virginia that a son of a chief
                            of the Doegs, who had been "pawewawd" or bewitched, was disenchanted and
                            healed by the administration of  baptism,
                            and this miracle "was taken for a convincing proof against infidelity."
                            T. M.'s Beginning, etc., of Bacon's Rebellion, in Force, i, 9.
                            Traditional notions about the saving efficacy of baptism were not wholly
                            eradicated from the minds of the first generation of New Englanders.
                            "The people begin to complain," writes Lechford about a dozen years
                            after Winthrop's migration, that "their children for the most part
                            remain unbaptized: and so have little more priviledge than Heathens."
                            Plaine Dealing, 89. The exclusion from baptism of the children of
                            parents not in covenant with the church led to much correspondence
                            between New England divines and Puritans in England, and tractates
                            appeared on both sides. An Apologie of the Church in New England,...
                            sent over in answer to Mr. Barnard in the year 1639, I saw in the
                            White-Kennett Library in London, and there now lies before me Church
                            Government and Church Covenant Discussed, etc., 1643. This is Richard
                            Mather's reply to thirty-two questions sent him by ministers known to
                            him in Lancashire and Cheshire. There is also before me a little volume
                            dated 1643, with a long title beginning, "A Letter of Many Ministers in
                            Old England." It contains two letters from England and two from New
                            England, the dates running from 1637 to 1640. The sore question of the
                            exclusion of many children from baptism is treated in all these
                            publications and in others of the same period, notably Cotton's Way of
                            Churches, 1645, and Hooker's Summe of Church Discipline, 1648. While
                            Cotton and Hooker lived, New England made no concession to the clamor of
                            those whose children were excluded, and the United Colonies, Plymouth
                            reserving its opinion, demanded that "Baptisme, the seale of the
                            Covenant, be administered only" to covenant members of the churches "and
                            their ymediate seed." Hazard State Papers, ii, 73, 74. The Cambridge
                            Platform, adopted in 1648, did not relax this proscripticn. But the
                            younger generation was by this time coming to the lead, the example of
                            Puritans in England was on the side of inclusion, and Quakers and
                            Baptists were a little later making inroads. Puritanism in New England
                            also felt the recoil of the Restoration in 1660. The fifth proposition,
                            adopted in 1662, indicates a sweeping change in policy. Of the two old
                            leaders still surviving, Richard Mather favored the change and John
                            Norton was temporarily absent in England. Compare the Platform of 1648,
                            largely the work of Norton, in Results of Three Synods (1725), pp. 1-49,
                            with the deliverance of 1662 in the same, 74-88. On certain conditions
                            baptized persons were, after 1662, 
                            allowed to bring their children to the font.
                                Note 22, page 176.
                             This was known as the halfway covenant.
                                Note 23, page 176.
                             Having served its purpose for two or three generations, this
                            "halfway covenant plan" went to pieces in the religious excitement under
                            Whitefield and others after 1740.
                                Note 24, page 176.
                             Perhaps its disappearance was favored by the gradual decay of
                            the old English notion of the indispensability of baptism to salvation.
                        "I desire if such were the will of God, and so could gladly believe if
                            the scriptures taught it, that all [infants] were saved." It is with
                            these words that Robinson qualifies his acceptance of the doctrine of
                            infant damnation. Works, iii, 233.
                        John Cotton, whose first thought was of the integrity of his theological
                            system, maintained in his Grounds and Ends of the Baptisme of the
                            Children of the Faithfull, that elect infants have faith given to them
                            and are saved by faith. But the commoner opinion was perhaps expressed
                            by Wigglesworth, that they were sanctified "by ways unknown to men." Day
                            of Doom, xxv. One gets the notion that in the unwritten creed of New
                            England the elect infants were to be found among the baptized children
                            of the faithful. A young man of Connecticut told Story, the Quaker, that
                            unbaptized infants were all lost, but he did not think that all baptized
                            infants would be saved, and this was perhaps the popular feeling.
                            Story's Journal, 308. Cotton attached so much importance to baptism that
                            in the work cited above he expresses the opinion that a house was burned
                            on account of the owner's honest scruples regarding infant baptism. The
                            Confession of Dort, the most authoritative of Calvinist creeds, perhaps,
                            declares that the children of the faithful are holy by the free benefit
                            of the covenant in which they are included with their parents, and says
                            that pious parents ought not to doubt concerning the salvation of their
                            children taken away in infancy"pii parentes de Electione et Salute
                            suorum liberorum, quos Deus in infantia ex hac vita evocat, dubitare non
                            debent." I Doctrin, caput xvii, in Sylloge Confessionum sub tempus
                            Reformand Ecclesi, p. 376. This giving a kind of certainty in the case
                            of the children of religious parents, took the place of the old
                            dependence on baptism.
                        Of Wigglesworth's Day of Doom, Sibley says: "This wock represented the
                            theology of the day, and for a century, with the exception perhaps of
                            the Bible, was more popular throughout New England than any other that
                            can be named. It passed  through several
                            editions in book form, and was also printed on broadsides and hawked
                            about the country.
                                Note 25, page 177.
                             As late as the early part of the present (nineteenth) century
                            many persons could repeat the whole or large portions of it.
                                Note 26, page 177.
                            " Harvard Graduates, i, 272.
                        Cotton Mather recounts an incident of a New England minister exhorting a
                            criminal condemned to death to repent of Adam's sin"the guilt of the
                            First Sin committed by Adam was justly charged upon" him.
                                Note 27, page 178.
                             Magnalia, book vi, p. 44, original edition.
                                Note 28, page 180.
                             On this tendency of the time to give a merely legal character to
                            sin, compare in Fuller's Good Thoughts for Bad Times, p. 277, "Imprimis,
                            the sin of his conception."
                        So much of the medival limbo survived in New England Calvinism. Compare
                            Wigglesworth's "the easiest room in hell" with Dante's "primo cerchio
                            che l'abisso cigne," that circle lying round the abyss, in which are
                            heard no lamentations save sighs that made the eternal air to palpitate,
                            and where were a great throng "of infants, of women, and mature men,"
                            who had not sinned, but had missed of heaven for want of baptism.
                        
                            ... e s'elli hanno mercedi,
                            Non basta, perch'ei non ebber battesmo
                            Ch'e', porta.
                        
                        This notion of baptism as "the gate" survived in the Anglican colonies,
                            and no doubt the limbo, or "easiest room in hell," was also a popular
                            survival elsewhere than in New England. It is noteworthy that Quakerism,
                            having no system to complete, refused to admit the damnation of infants,
                            or to impute "the sin of Adam to all the little children, so as to
                            effect their Eternal State." Story's Journal, 1699, pp. 218, 219.
                            Compare p. 308. This milder theology and the doctrine of non-resistance
                            seem to have affected the administration of law in the Quaker colony.
                            See Colonial Records of Pennsylvania, iii, 45, and elsewhere for
                            instances.
                        The preface to the New England Psalm Book of 1640 maintains that it is a
                            moral and perpetual duty to sing every sort of David's psalms. And "the
                            book of psalms is so compleat a system of psalms which the... infinite
                            wisdome hath made to suit all the conditions, necessityes, affections,
                            etc., of men in all ages," as to "stoppe all men's mouths and mindes"
                            from writing or singing any other psalms or hymns.
                        Cotton held that because the "temple should be filled with smoke" at a
                            certain period described in the Apocalypse, there  could be no general conversion of the Indians.
                                Note 29, page 181.
                             Of the apostle Eliot Sewall records this: "Mr. Eliot in his
                            first attempt to make them [the Indians] Christian was much concerned to
                            find out some Promise in the Scriptures relating to them.
                                Note 30, page 181.
                            ... But afterward he concluded that the Thirty-seventh chapter of
                            Ezekiel was written principally for their sakes.
                                Note 31, page 185.
                            " Phenomena qudam Apocalyptica, Dedicatory Letter.
                        In the little summary of opinions against cockfighting published in 1660
                            by Edmond Ellis and to be found in the Harleian Miscellany, as cited in
                            the margin of the text, one reads, "The baiting of the bull hath its
                            use, and therefore is commended of civil authority." Was there ever any
                            sport so reprehensible that this defense of utility was not set up in
                            its favor? From Perkins's Cases of Conscience, 1632, Ellis quotes: "The
                            antipathy and cruelty, which one beast showeth to another, is the fruit
                            of our rebellion against God, and should rather move us to mourn than to
                            rejoice." He quotes a similar argument from Bolton's General Directions
                            for a comfortable walking with God. From Dod and Cleaver he quotes a
                            direct appeal to humane feeling against cruel sports, which uses the
                            theological argument only subordinately. "This proceedeth not of a
                            tender heart.... Have our sins in Adam brought such calamities upon them
                            and shall we add unto them by cruelty in our own persons."
                        But the colony of East Jersey, predominantly Puritan, forbade bull
                            baiting and cockfighting as sports "which excite people to rudeness,
                            cruelty, looseness, and irreligion." Barber's Historical Collections of
                            New Jersey, 36, under "Early Moral Laws," said to be for the most part
                            extracted from a series of articles published in the Newark Daily
                            Advertiser. The date of the act is not given, but others in the same
                            section range from 1675 to 1697. Bull baiting was probably mentioned
                            only to guard against its introduction.
                        
                            Quatuor potissimum Ministerii ordines Ministrii, Doctores,
                                Seniores, Diaconi. Nor do these words take either side of the
                            controversy of the time on the position of apostolic teachers, whether
                            they were ministers or not. Evidently there was a division on the
                            question. The section concerning them is frankly inconclusiveDe
                            Doctoribus nondum visum est aliquid constituere. The Barrowist system
                            prevailed generally, but not universally, in New England. Compare
                            Lechford's Plaine Dealing, pp. 4 and 15, and The Temple Measured, by
                            James Noyes,  teacher of the church at
                            Newbury, in New England (White-Kennett Library, West Indies, M), with
                            various allusions in other works implying the presence of one or more
                            churches, Presbyterian in form.
                                Note 32, page 186.
                             The early records of the Dedham Church define church officers to
                            be "Pastours, Teachers, rulers, Deacons, and widdowes." On the
                            difficulty of getting widows old enough and vigorous enough, see a
                            passage in Cotton's Way of the Churches, 1645. See also the Cambridge
                            Platform of 1648, chap, viii, sec. 7, where the duties of "ancient
                            widows" are defined. The New England Synod of 1679 sought to restore the
                            twofold pastorate, already hopelessly gone to decay. Question II.
                            "Plebeian ordination" by the laying on of the hands of the people was
                            practiced at first, but went out after the Synod of 1648. Dexter's
                            Congregationalism, 482, citing Magnalia, v. John Hull, in his Diary,
                            189, considers that the birth of a living male child of a woman who had
                            joined the church, though her parents were Quakers, and whose other
                            children had been still-born, was evidence that she "owned church
                            order."
                        The system was full-fledged among Separatists in 1582. Barclay's Inner
                            Life of the sects of the Commonwealth cites A true Discription out of
                            the Word of God of the visible Church. No doubt Barrow, the Separatist,
                            who was executed at Tyburn, was the propounder of the completed scheme,
                            though parts of it had appeared earlier among the exiles at Frankfort.
                            John Robinson's Catechism, printed in 1642, but of course written much
                            earlier, elaborates this subject carefully. I am indebted to Barclay as
                            above, p. 104, note, for this reference. On the double pastorate in
                            Holland, see The Dutch Drawne to the Life, 1664, chap. iii. What I take
                            to be the earliest New England church constitution is the Latin paper in
                            the State Paper Office, with Laud's indorsement dated 3 March, 1634that
                            is, 1635 N. S. The authorship, origin, and date of this paper are
                            obscure, but internal evidence shows that its origin probably preceded
                            the arrival of Cotton in 1633. After Cotton's ascendency began there was
                            no general requirement that women should wear veils at public worship,
                            as in this paper. The Latin is in places incorrect and badly spelled,
                            and the paper could not have come from New England after such good
                            Latinists as Norton and others arrived. In this early document ancient
                            widows are not mentioned among the servants of the church, but they are
                            not excluded by its phraseology.
                        
                        "It is a custom generally used in most, if not in all parish churches of
                            this kingdom, as well as among Presbyterians and others, that the Clerk
                            alone reads aloud every verse, one after another, of the Psalm that is
                            sung before and after the Sermon, and that all the people sing it after
                                him.
                                Note 33, page 187.
                            " A View of the Government and Public Worship... in the Reformed
                            Churches, etc.
                                Note 34, page 190.
                            , by John Durell, 1662.
                                Note 35, page 191.
                             In New England this custom persisted generally in 1726, though
                            some churches by this time had books, and sang without waiting for the
                            hymn to be "deaconed.
                                Note 36, page 191.
                            " Compare Cotton Mather's Ratio Discipli, 52. Of the
                            disappearance of the custom in the Anglican churches I can give no
                            account.
                        The last two points are on the authority of the important Latin Canons
                            and Constitutions, indorsed, as stated heretofore, 3 March, 1634. This
                            is no doubt the date of Laud's reception of them. The title is Canones
                            Regiminis Ecclesiastici constituti et in reformatis Ecclesiis
                            Novo-Anglicanus observati, breviter in ordinem digesti. I have made no
                            attempt to control the errors in the original paper. On the silent vote
                            the words of this document are: "Sistatur coram Magistratu et tota
                            ecclesia, ut intra dies quatuor decim tacitis fidelium suffragis
                            comprobetur." On the wearing of veils in meeting: "Ne qu Mulier prsumat
                            sacris ctibus adesse nisi capite Velamine tecto." See, further,
                            Winthrop's Life and Letters, ii, 109, Winthrop's Journal, i, 149; and
                            Hubbard's Massachusetts, 204, 205.
                        "Infantibus non sunt danda nomina barbara vel superstitiosa, sed in
                            sacris literis expressa." Latin Canons as above.
                        D'Ewes attributes his father's loss of property to his having been guilty
                            of the "controversial sin" of taking interest on money. Autobiography i,
                            43, 44. Comp. Knight's Questio Quodlibetica, whether lawful to take use
                            for money, 1657, and others.
                    
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER THE FIFTH.
                    THE TRADITION OF EDUCATION.
                    
                        I.
                        THE history of human life and institutions is
                            inwrought of two principles running crisscross to one another.
                                CHAP. V.
                             Athwart the warp of traditional continuity there is woven the
                            woof of variation; the pattern changes by degrees, but the web is
                            without break or seam.
                                Continuity of education.
                             Our system of education is sometimes supposed to come from some
                            fountain head in America, or at most to be a Protestant device dating
                            from the Reformation.
                                Comp. Kept, of Royal Cath. Com., p. iv.
                             But the schools that sprang up after the change of religion in
                            England marked the persistence of an ancient tradition that even such an
                            upheaval could not destroy. To find a logical point of beginning we must
                            ascend to the early Christian centuries, when the work of religious
                            teaching and proselytism marched abreast. Education was carried on in
                            primitive monasteries and in cathedral chapters of a monastic type.
                            These far-back monastic schools for teaching religion only are connected
                            by an unbroken pedigree with our complicated modern systems of child
                            training. We may account the ancient missionary schools a place of
                            beginning because it would tax patience to little purpose to  grope uncertainly in the gray dawn of
                            tradition for a connection with sources yet higher up.
                    
                    
                        II.
                        The instruction given in places of resort for the study of early
                            Christian doctrine and observance seems to be whole millenniums away
                            from the modern conception of education. There were schools or at least
                            throngs of scholars about popular Christian teachers in England in the
                            fifth century. Later than that the English youth even of the nobility
                            were crossing the channel to the renowned monasteries of Ireland "for
                            the sake of divine studies and a more continent life,... going about
                            from one master's cell to another," as Bede tells us. By this voyage to
                            a foreign land these young Englishmen learned the Latin of the service
                            book and church song, and they acquired also the elements of the wisdom
                            of that age, such as the excellence of celibacy and the purifying effect
                            of self-imposed hunger, which was efficient even to the sanctifying of
                            the polluted ground on which crimes had been committed. They learned the
                            keeping of three Lents a year, and they were taught that it was an act
                            of superior devotion in seasons of fasting to eat daily only a little
                            bread and milk after sunset, the milk being carefully skimmed. The
                            proper order of singing the psalter and a method of fixing the true date
                            of Easter were also taught, along with the doctrine of the damnation of
                            infants unbaptized, 
                                Early Christian schools. Bede's Eccl. Hist., b. iii, ch. xxvii
                                    and elsewhere. Compare Collier's Eccl. Hist., Lathbury's ed., i,
                                    110, 111. Note I.
                            
                             and much other lore now at last happily
                                obsolete.
                                Note 2.
                             These early schools with their skimmed-milk asceticism at least
                            show the human soul in insurrection against the sordidness of barbarism,
                            but they interest us here because from them is plainly traceable across
                            the ages for nearly fifteen hundred years the long line of a tradition
                            and habit of education.
                                Founding of Latin schools.
                             There have been variation and evolution, but there has been no
                            break. The monastery school became a cathedral school in some cases, and
                            the semi-monastic free school grew up alongside them both. The
                            rudimentary school in the house of the detached priest got its impulse
                            and direction from the higher schools in the cathedrals, and by slow
                            changes the local priest's school became the parish school, and in
                            prosaic modern times, by a series of transformations, the American
                            district school, which last retains few traces of its remote
                            ecclesiastical ancestry.
                    
                    
                        III.
                        Before the Reformation the main reliance for education was on the convent
                            schools. Young women were sent to the nunneries to learn to "work and
                            reade." Sometimes girls were given a little Latin also. Boys learned
                            Latin in their hornbooks and other "abcees." English in black-letter
                            characters came after. The barbarous medival Latin, often grotesquely
                            macaronied with the vulgar speech, was widely used in records and
                            account books of the time. When the monasteries were  suppressed by Henry VIII most of the
                            higher schools went down into the abyss with the religious houses, and
                            the English nation was faced by the ugly fact that it had pretty nearly
                            abolished the education of the times, such as it was.
                                Note 3.
                             For remedy the old cathedral schools were supplied with lay
                            teachers, and new cathedral trusts with provisions for educating
                            choristers and other boys for holy orders were established.
                                Positions, chap. xl.
                             Now that all the religious houses with their schools had been
                            ingulfed, efforts were made to found free grammar schools in addition to
                            those that had survived.
                                Harrison's Description of Britaine in Holinshed, i, 254
                             Sixteen such schools were established in the time of Edward VI
                            in as many months. But the reign of the boy king was brief; the hungry
                            courtiers had tasted the savory spoils of the monasteries, and they
                            grudged every morsel of it that was given to the new free schools. The
                            reactionary rule of Mary followed, and soon after the accession of
                            Elizabeth the Speaker of the Commons reminded the young queen of the
                            disastrous decay of learning in her kingdom. A general zeal was aroused,
                            not for the primary and popular education so much in favor in later
                            times, but for the founding of free Latin schools. Mulcaster, a
                            schoolmaster of the time, relates that the schools established in
                            Elizabeth's reign were more "than all the rest be that were before her
                            time in the whole Realme." Another writer of 1577 says that "there are
                            not manie corporat townes now vnder the queens dominion that hain not
                            one Grammar Schoole at the least." The tide wave of zeal  for founding new Latin schools reached
                            its flood about the time that emigration to America began and the
                            impulse was felt in all the early colonies.
                                Rudimentary teaching.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        IV.
                        Much of the primary teaching was done at home.
                                An order touchinge the Free School in Kendall, 1641. MSS.
                                    Commission, x, iv, 316.
                             There was a great temptation to put this burden on the grammar
                            schools, and one finds many complaints in England and America regarding
                            the disposition of parents to be rid of their little children, "whereby
                            the usher is overburdened.
                                Sewall's Diary, 1696, i, 436.
                            " Efforts were made from time to time to repel from the Latin
                            school children who were stumbling through "the Home Booke, the A. B.
                            C., and the Primer.
                                Oud Hollandsch rluisgezin.
                            " In New Haven the children who "bothered the master by spelling
                            in English" were to be forthwith sent home. To supply the place of home
                            instruction in the rudiments the dame school had grown up. This
                            gatehouse of learning was kept sometimes by a busy housewife, sometimes
                            by a young woman a little better taught than other women. Schoolmasters'
                            daughters were purposely fitted to keep such schools in which the
                            alphabet, spelling, and primary reading were taught along with the
                            catechism, and in which girls learned to sew. "Mary goes to Mrs. Thair's
                            to learn to Read and Knit" is a significant entry in a Boston diary. In
                            Holland at this period there were dame schools in the care of women who
                            were themselves unable to read, but who taught the children the
                            catechism  only, and that orally. Nothing
                            so bad as this is recorded of English schools of the sort, but the dame
                            was, no doubt, sometimes poorly qualified even to give instruction as
                            far as the primer.
                    
                    
                        V.
                        In the middle ages education was begun with the rudiments written
                            probably on parchment, which was for security nailed to a wooden board,
                            or, as an old poem puts it, "Naylyd on a brede of tre.
                                First books.
                            " Perhaps when paper, a much more perishable substance than
                            parchment, came into use, the sheet thus attached to "a board of tree"
                            was thought to require an overlay of a thin bit of horn to protect it
                            from the destructive fumbling of the child.
                                Quoted in New English Dict.
                             Such hornbooks seem to have become more common in the
                            seventeenth century than before, and there was a disposition to make
                            them pleasing to the eye.
                                Tuer's History of the Hornbook, passim.
                                
                             Both plain hornbooks and gilt ones were imported into the
                            colonies in the seventeenth century.
                                E. g., MS. Invoice in Mass. Archives, 1690.
                             The hornbook contained the alphabet in capitals and in
                            lower-case letters, with those easy syllables in two letters known at
                            least in later days as the "a b abs" The alphabet had been from remote
                            times preceded by a cross, from which the first line had come to be
                            called the crisscross (or Christ's cross) row. The advent of
                            Protestantism did not drive out all Catholic usages; some English
                            children still commended their beds to "Matthew, Mark, Luke, and  John," and in country places as late as
                            1618 alphabetical studies were begun at the crisscross row with the
                            ancient prayer, or perhaps one might say charm, "Christ's cross be my
                            spede and the Holy Ghost," "For feare the Divell should be in the
                            letters of the Alphabet," adds the chronicler.
                                The Court and Country, 1618. Roxburghe Libr., p. 188.
                             But the first hornbooks taken to the new Puritan settlement in
                            New England are said to have had the cross obliterated.
                                Note 4.
                             After the hornbook came the "abce" or the "abcie," spelled also
                            in several other ways.
                                Comp. Introduction to Ford's Reprint.
                             It comprised a series of little verses turning each on some
                            word, which key words began with the several letters of the alphabet in
                                succession.
                                Comp. Caulkin's New London, 395.
                             The device is well known in our later times. There were of old
                            "latten abeesees" as well as English ones; the Latin were no doubt the
                            more ancient. The primer, notwithstanding its name, was the third
                            implement for learning put into the hands of a child. It contained at
                            the Reformation prayers and religious meditations, but in some of its
                            later forms it was much like a modern catechism. The primer came at last
                            to include the contents of the hornbook and the "abcie"; such was the
                            famous New England Primer which had its rise at the close of the
                            seventeenth and passed through innumerable editions in the eighteenth
                            century. The usual course was to pass the child out of the primer into
                            the psalterthat is, to set him to reading Sternhold and Hopkins's
                            version of the Psalms in meter. The rugged Bay Psalm Book was used as a
                            reader in the days when  approximate
                            rhymes and a rough rhythm were the only alleviations of the child's
                            task. But reading was also taught from little books "full of precepts of
                            ciuilitie" done into verse "such as children will soone learne and take
                            delight in thorow the roundnesse of the meter," as Schoolmaster Brinsley
                            assures us.
                                Brinsley, passim.
                                
                             Rules of politeness in verse were centuries old in Latin, and
                            were by this time common in English; one of these books was "The Schoole
                            of Vertue," and there was a "Newe Schoole of Vertue "of French
                                origin.
                                Caulkin's Hist, of New London.
                             To be polite, to "make his manners" by bow or courtesy to
                            superiors, to stand reverently and modestly aside in the street when
                            elders or people of dignity passed by, was one of the first and most
                            important steps in early American educationit was the virtue of
                            childhood, as it had been from the middle ages.
                                The grammar school.
                             But when the lad could read in the psalter without spelling the
                            words, he bade adieu to school dame and English and was ready to be
                            "entered"P in Latin, as the phrase went.
                    
                    
                        VI.
                        By the term grammar school was meant in that day a school for beginners
                            in Latin. One might learn some paradigms, and even more than this of
                            Greek, in the higher grammar schools, and there were masters who added
                            some driblets of preliminary Hebrew, the school thus including all the
                            three learned tongues. But virtually its whole  force was spent on Latin, which was still the sacred
                            language of religion and learning.
                                Note 5.
                             Many of the pupils in the grammar schools had to be taught their
                            English rudiments; beyond this the instruction was almost wholly in
                                Latin.
                                Brinsley's Ludus, p. 24.
                             Lilly's grammar, with a ponderous and forbidding title, was in
                            that language.
                                Note 6.
                             The difficulty of this had at length brought forth some
                            recognized English helps for beginners, such as posing books, or, as we
                            should say nowadays, question books, on the accidence, and there were
                            ponies intended for surreptitious use, in the shape of helps to construe
                            Lilly's rules; but English was ostensibly left behind.
                                Brinsley's Ludus, 215. Wigglesworth in Sibley's Harvard
                                    Graduates, i, 267. Danker's Journal, 385.
                             The lad must understand when the master taught him in Latin, and
                            he was supposed to converse only in Latin during school hours.
                                Note 7.
                             Yet in spite of "ferula" and birch switches, and the risk of
                            being distinguished as the "asinus" or donkey of his form, the pupil
                            still contrived to speak much to his fellows in his mother tongue.
                                Note 8.
                             The attempt to compel conversation in Latin was not wholly
                            successful in England, and it always failed in America, even in Harvard
                            College. Disputation had been for centuries the favorite means of
                            rendering scholars expert in Latin and of vitiating their general
                            education. The taste for polemics had pervaded the universities, and
                            even the grammar schools, from the earliest times. Lads under fifteen
                            were set to dispute in school Latin, often "thieving" their arguments on
                            grave questions of philosophy or intricate points of grammar, and  mingling their disputations with boyish
                            sarcasms and rude ridicule, in the spirit of the gamecocks, in which
                            masters and pupils took delight.
                                Brinsley's Ludus, passim.
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        VII.
                        After seven or eight years in what Milton styles "the grammatical flats
                            and shallows," the boy left the grammar school for deeper waters.
                                In the grammar school.
                             Unless he had had an unusually good master the chances were that
                            he could read his mother tongue but stammeringlythere were pupils who at
                            some stage of their early Latin studies lost the art of reading English
                                entirely.
                                Brinsley's Ludus Literarius, 29, 47, and elsewhere.
                             The lad of fifteen or more, on leaving the grammar school, was
                            ignorant of numbers; some boys advanced in Latin did not know the
                            numerals, Roman or Arabic, and could not find the chapter in the Bible,
                            "much less the verse." The boy from the grammar school had learned to
                            write and to make his own quill pens with the point next the middle
                            finger slightly thinner and shorter than the other, and to make a ruling
                            pen as well, "with a nock like that of an arrow." With this he could
                            make two parallel lines, and he ruled his own paper thus and wrote
                            between the two lines. "Penne, inke, paper, rular, plummet, ruling pen,
                            pen-knife," were all included in the outfit for learning to write, and
                            there was "a blotting paper" to keep the book clean. For doing his
                            exercises the pupil used a piece of lead thrust into a quill, and he
                            kept a piece of new  wheat bread at hand
                            for use in erasing pencil marks.
                                D'Ewes.
                             The grammar-school boy rarely had occasion to write English, and
                            many scholars from early neglect in the grammar schools were "too
                            backwards to their dying day " in the art of writing the
                                vernacular.
                                Note 9.
                             The master and his usher were often inexpert in writing; in such
                            cases a scrivener was sometimes engaged to teach the "Roman hand" and
                            the beautiful "secretary hand" so puzzling nowadays to unpracticed
                                eyes.
                                Ludus Literarius, 196.
                             There were also traveling scriveners who taught penmanship. The
                            lad might be weak in his English when he left school, but he made amends
                            for it by knowing how to write themes and even verses in Latin. The
                            producing of Latin verses was a rather wooden handicraft; the grammar
                            scholar used his Flores Poetarum for models, and he could borrow elegant
                            ready-made locutions from a thesaurus of poetical phrases by Bucklerius.
                            The Sylva Synonimorum was also very handy for "schollars of Judgement."
                            When the word in mind would not scan properly, the verse carpenter could
                            select another with the same meaning from this Forest of Synonyms. The
                            ambitious young poet rummaged in Textor's Epitheta after decorative
                            adjectives; for epithets, "if they be choyse, are a singular ornament,"
                            as Master Brinsley assures us. "Descriptions by periphrases" were to be
                            had in Holyoke's Dictionary, and there was "Master Draxe his Phrases"
                            and other books "to see how many wayes they can vtter anything in good
                                 phrase." One Latin verse was admired
                            because its nine words could be arranged in a hundred and four ways,
                            perhaps all equally prosaic.
                                Comp. D'Ewes's Autobiog., i, 102, 105.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        VIII.
                        A boy from the grammar school unable to write his mother tongue with any
                            fluency and ignorant of the multiplication table was not fitted for the
                            counting house, where his dexterity in cobbling Latin verses would avail
                                nothing.
                                Writing schools.
                             For lads destined to these employments there were English
                            schools of various sorts, including many old-fashioned "common schools"
                            for all classes, which debarbarized their rudimentary English by
                            teaching youths also to "congrue Latine.
                                Comp. Ciuile and vnciuile Life, p. 21.
                            " When appearing alongside the free schools such were sometimes
                            called "inferior schools," or "trivial schools.
                                Comp. Willsford's Scales of Commerce, 1660, and arithmetics of
                                    the time.
                            " With the rising importance of trade in the seventeenth century,
                            "writing schools," so called, came into prominence. Lads, even of good
                            families, who showed more aptitude for money-making than for learning
                            Latin were sent to the writing school to learn "good hands and
                            accounts." In these schools were taught an elaborate penmanship,
                            arithmetic in forms somewhat fantastic, and the science of bookkeeping,
                            complicated and intricated in that day by the multitude of varying
                            monetary and metrical systems. Writing schools were private ventures,
                            and in contrast to the severity practiced in the grammar school the
                            writing school enforced  no discipline
                                whatever.
                                Lives of the Norths, ii, 293.
                             Until the close of the seventeenth century such homely and
                            useful schools were rarely if ever endowed.
                                Note 10.
                             It was only by founding a Latin school that one could hope to
                            gain the blessedness of a saint or the glory of a patriot.
                                Comp. Brinsley's Consolations.
                             Such was the faith of Englishmen and of the founders of the
                            early colonies in America.
                                Grammar school the universal remedy.
                             The vulgar utilities of English reading and writing and
                            multiplying and dividing were much more suited to pioneers in America
                            than Lilly's Latin grammar or even than what was esteemed the "rare and
                            almost divine matter" of "Tullies Offices." But necessary and mercenary
                            arts could not be made objects of sentiment by enthusiastic benefactors
                            who wrote long letters to the Virginia Company ostentatiously
                            subscribing them "Dust and Ashes," or laid their money when they were
                            done with it at last on the altar of the venerated dead languages for
                            the benefit of "poor scholars" who had been traditional objects of
                            benevolence for centuries.
                    
                    
                        IX.
                        Valued at first as a means of producing clergymen, we find the grammar
                            school in the fifteenth century esteemed in Scotland as a training place
                            for public officials "for the king's use." After the Reformation it came
                            to be regarded in England, Scotland, and Holland as a means for
                            propagating Protestant doctrines and eradicating heresy. But as potable
                            gold was the universal medicine and 
                            Venice treacle the antidote to innumerable poisons, so the grammar
                            school in that age of idealism became a cure for all heresy, heathenism,
                            and barbarism.
                                Published 1622.
                             The greatest schoolmaster of James's reign, John Brinsley, laid
                            at the feet of the Virginia Company the manuscript of his "Consolations
                            for Ovr Grammar Schooles," intended especially for "all ruder places,
                            namely for Ireland, Wales, Virginia," etc.
                                Brinsley's Consolations, 15.
                            , "God having ordained schooles of learning," he declares, "to be
                            a principall meanes to reduce a barbarous people to ciuilities.
                                MS. Records, passim.
                                
                            " It was in this spirit that the Virginia Company allotted land
                            for a college at Henrico to bring Indian children to a saving knowledge
                            of Christianity and Latin grammar.
                                Broadside, cited MSS. Comm., iii, 66. Records of Company, Oct.
                                    24, 1621. Comp. Declaration of
                             For barbarous places "so nuzled vp in rudeness and superstition"
                            it was thought there could be no help but in a Latin school. Benefactors
                            seeking the conversion of the "infidell's children" sent books and maps
                            and money for the new Indian college in Virginia. This was done
                            dramatically after the manner of the time. A mysterious well-dressed
                            stranger appeared in the open court of the Virginia Company, depositing
                            there a box in which were found bags of "new gold " for the education of
                            the Indians. Passengers on a returning East Indiaman, hearing news of
                            religious destitution in Virginia, forthwith collected money; this, with
                            other sums, was devoted to the founding of a collegiate school at
                            Charles City. The students were to pass out of this "East India School,"
                            as it was called, to the college at Henrico, from the  privileges of which baptized youth were
                            not to be quite shut out. To the endowment of the Charles City school
                            the Virginia Company added a thousand acres of land and five apprenticed
                                servants.
                                Col. of Va., 1622, pp. 51, 53.
                             The overthrow of the Company in 1624 involved the destruction of
                            these schemes for transplanting the education then in vogue to
                                America.
                                Note 11.
                             Of all these benevolent projects there was a few years later not
                            a bit of flotsam anywhere to be seen.
                                Symmes's and other free schools in Virginia.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        X.
                        Benjamin Symmes, a settler in Virginia, was the first of emigrant
                            Englishmen to bequeath an educational endowment after the pattern set by
                            English philanthropists in the ages before him.
                                Note 12.
                             To found a free school in Elizabeth County, Symmes, who died in
                            1634, gave by will two hundred and fifty acres of land with an adjacent
                            hay marsh and a herd of eight milch cows, which by 1649 had increased to
                                forty.
                                Hening, vii, 41. Comp. also Neil's Educational Development of
                                    Va., 26.
                             Interest-bearing and profit-sharing investments were not to be
                            had. The usufruct of land and cattle, and sometimes the income from
                            cattle alone, had been for centuries the commonest form of bequest for
                            benevolent, religious, or superstitious purposes. One Henry Peasley
                            founded a Virginia free school in 1675 with a gift of six hundred acres
                            of land, ten cows, and a brood mare. Other public-spirited people gave
                            to Peasley's school negro slaves in place of the obsolete tenants of old
                            English endowments and the bond servants 
                            given by the Virginia Company for educational uses.
                                Note 13.
                             In the remaining parish records the existence of yet other
                            free-school endowments in colonial Virginia can be traced.
                                Note 14.
                             But the free Latin school of England was an exotic in
                                Virginia.
                                Comp. Reports of Clergy in Perry's Collections Va. and Hugh
                                    Jones's Va., 70.
                             There was no town life, and there was small need of dispensing
                            gratuitous Latin to thriving tobacco planters in a new country, whose
                            clergy, such as they were, were imported ready made, and whose laymen at
                            least did their talking and reading in mother English. The College of
                            William and Mary did not get under way until the last years of the
                            seventeenth century; there was no bishop on this side of the sea to
                            induct men into holy orders; the primitive statecraft of the colony
                            needed no other tongue than the vernacular, aided occasionally by Indian
                            interpreters, so that the free Latin school of early Virginia was a
                            short ladder with nothing but empty space at the top of it. Latin was
                            studied merely as a gentleman's accomplishment. The abundant wild land,
                            the cheap bondservant labor, and yet cheaper slave labor, which became
                            common in the last quarter of the century, tempted the young provincial
                            of the Chesapeake colonies to land ownership and that culture of the
                            soil by the hands of others that had been for ages the pursuit of the
                            gentry of the mother country. Of the character of the teaching in the
                            few early Virginia grammar schools we know nothing. Little private
                            schools early began to spring up at convenient points in the growing
                            settlements which  were stretched in a
                            narrow, sinuous line along the margins of the watercourses and estuaries
                            of the Chesapeake region. One may infer from the record that there were
                            such schools before 1644, and it appears that the cost of a year's
                            "scoleing" at that time was equal to that of two pairs of shoes.
                                MS. Records of York Co., Va.
                             Forty years later, in 1684, there were so many of these little
                            country schools that the mercenary governor, Lord Howard of Effingham,
                            thought it worth while to exact a license fee from every
                                schoolmaster.
                                Beverly's Va., pt. i, 89.
                             These schools had no relation to the parish authorities, but
                            were established and conducted by the people spontaneously.
                                Perry's Coll. Va., 268.
                             "The children's fathers hire those schools and pay you out of
                            their own pocket" is the quaint statement of a clergyman in a report to
                            the Bishop of London in 1724.
                                As above, 279.
                             "To read, write, and cipher" was usually the whole course.
                                Other devices for education.
                             "Care is generally taken by parents that their children be
                            taught to read" certifies Parson Brunskill.
                                Note 15.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        XI.
                        The schools in Virginia being thus the offspring of the law of demand and
                            supply, some of the endowed schools seem to have taught arithmetic
                            instead of the dead languages, and one excellent private school in 1724
                            combined numbers with Latin and Greek. Virginia life in the first
                            century after the settlement was extremely rural, not to say rustic;
                            most of the planters had never seen a 
                            town, and even members of the House of Burgesses could not conceive of
                            life as tolerable to people cooped up in a village where neighbors were
                            so near that there was no range for a herd of cattle. The development of
                            large landholdings began to produce a class of pretty rich planters in
                            the last half of the seventeenth century who naturally wished to give
                            their sons better advantages than they could get in the rough old field
                            schools or the struggling free schools.
                                Hartwell, Blair, and Chilton's Present State of Va., about
                                1697.
                             Imitating the landed proprietors of England, these men brought
                            their sons up under private tutors.
                                Note 16.
                             The natural way to accomplish this in Virginia at that time was
                            to buy a man trained in an English Latin school from among the
                            redemptioners who were sold off the ship's deck for a term of years to
                            pay their passage.
                                Capt. Byrd's letter. Va. Hist. Reg., i, 64.
                             This method of hiring a private tutor was in use in 1669 and
                            probably earlier, and it seems to have prevailed in the Chesapeake
                            region throughout the colonial period. No doubt some of the teachers who
                            emigrated in considerable numbers in the prevalent fashion at the cost
                            of a temporary loss of liberty were better instructed than many of the
                            ordinary country teachers of the time. Before 1683 the brilliant William
                            Byrd, who was perhaps the first man born in any of the colonies with a
                            natural gift for felicitous literary expression, had been sent to
                            England for education. As time went on, this recurrence to the sources
                            of learning in the Old World was frequent among the rich in the Southern
                            colonies.
                    
                    
                    
                        XII.
                        In New England the Latin school found an environment distinctly more
                            friendly than was that of the colonies to the southward.
                                Latin schools in New England.
                             The settlers were in the first freshness of their Utopian
                            enthusiasm, and their church establishment was the very heart of their
                                enterprise.
                                Mass. Records, May, 1671.
                             In the Puritan mind preaching was really a sacrament above
                            sacraments, though it was called "an ordinance." God was held to be
                            present "in his holy ordinances" when they had "binn setled in a way of
                            gospel order." It became therefore a matter of primary importance to
                            educate preachers. For ages preparation for the ministry had consisted
                            mainly in acquiring a knowledge of Latin, the sacred tongue of Western
                            Christendom. Though the Latin service was no longer used by Protestants,
                            and the Vulgate Bible had been dethroned by the original text, and
                            though the main stream of English theology was by this time flowing in
                            the channel of the mother tongue, the notion that all ministers should
                            know Latin had still some centuries of tough life in it. The first
                            professed aim of university and secondary education in that time was to
                            raise up ministers; to fit men for the service of the state followed
                            close after. In all early projects for schools and colleges in America
                            these two were somewhat grotesquely intertwined, with a notion that a
                            first step toward converting the heathen tribes was to make some of them
                            bachelors of art. For this purpose the endowment  of the abortive Henrico College was undertaken in
                            Virginia, and in 1666, after no little travail, Harvard succeeded in
                            graduating an Indian.
                    
                    
                        XIII.
                        The English liking for free grammar schools, re-enforced by the Puritan
                            passion for securing "teaching elders," caused Latin schools to be set
                            up in many places "for the better trayning vpp of youth,... and that
                            through God's blessing they may be fitted for publique service hereafter
                            either in church or commonweale."
                                Mode of sustaining grammar schools in New England.
                            . The ancient English cow-and-calf endowment of education, which
                            had been already introduced into Virginia, reappears in the Northern
                                colonies.
                                New Haven Records, 25th of 12th month, 1641, p. 127.
                             Of the many plans traceable in early New England, it is probable
                            that nearly all had English precedents.
                                New Haven and Boston Records, passim. Tolman's
                                    Education in Rhode Island, p. 25. Comp. Dorchester Records, 54,
                                    55, 1645.
                             In New Haven, Boston, Newport, and elsewhere one finds early
                            proposals to sustain schools by the rental or usufruct of town lands, a
                            method used in England and incorporated in grants to early Virginia
                                plantations.
                                Note 17.
                             John Eliot, the apostle to the Indians, had been a
                            grammar-school usher in England, and his parish in Roxbury appears to
                            have contemplated a free school as early as 1642, in which year ten
                            shillings of rental was bequeathed toward its support. In 1645 all the
                            householders in Roxbury made a perpetual annual subscription, amounting
                            in all to twenty pounds a year, to sustain a free school for their
                            children, to fitt them for publike service  both in churche and Commonwealthe.
                                Winthrop, ii, 264. Mass. Records, passim.
                                    Ellis's Roxbury Town, chap. iv.
                            " These rentals were made a lien on "not only their houses, but
                            also their yardes, orchards, gardenings, out-houses, and
                                homesteads.
                                Mass. Rec., 13, Nov., 1644. Quincy's Harvard Coll., i, 473.
                            " The few resources of a new country for a fixed income were
                            probably all tried in turn by founders of New England schools.
                                The religious motive.
                             One finds among other things the rent of a ferry, of a wharf, of
                            a shop, of a house, and of a gristmill devoted to education. The early
                            Virginia tenant and servant endowment finds something like a parallel in
                            the contribution to Harvard College of a hundred and fifty pounds,
                            apparently out of a fund produced by the sale of indigent children sent
                            out of England as apprentices. After trying other means, deficiencies
                            were made up in some towns by a tax rate, and this method of sustaining
                            town schools proved the most practicable and developed after generations
                            into the modern system. In some New England communities the school tax
                            was levied at first on schoolable children in the several families;
                            often the rate was shared between property and progeny. In all these
                            expedients there appears to be a resort to methods known in England.
                    
                    
                        XIV.
                        The zeal for schools was somewhat more effective in New England than in
                            the colonies farther south, because the communities were more compact
                            and the local governments more vigorous. But it was also probably more
                            effective, because  the main body of the
                            people was religious, and schools in the seventeenth century were a part
                            of the religious establishment.
                                Note 18.
                             This trait education had inherited from the ages preceding.
                                Motive of the school law.
                             In some way even rough and rudimentary education took on a
                            religious color in the eyes of the people of that day. Massachusetts
                            ordained in 1642 that every child should be taught enough "to read and
                            understand the principles of religion & the capitall laves of
                            the country." The preamble of the Massachusetts school law of 1647 makes
                            it the motive of the act to thwart "the ould deluder Satan" by keeping
                            the Scriptures accessible in the original tongues, that "the true Sence
                            and meaning" might not "be clouded by false glosses of saint seeming
                            deceivers." This law passed into the Connecticut code of 1650, preceded
                            by this preamble with its uncouth rhetoric; the old deluder Satan still
                            marches at the front, followed by the Papists, the saint-seeming
                            deceivers walking softly in the rear, "false glosses" in hand. The broad
                            and secular uses of education were not recognized as yet.
                    
                    
                        XV.
                        By this curious law of 1647 the Puritan government of Massachusetts
                            rendered probably its greatest service to the future. The act was not
                            modern in aim, and for a long time it was inefficient, but from that
                            quaint act there has been slowly evolved the school system that now
                            obtains  in the United States.
                                Mass. Records, 1652.
                             The rush of Puritan immigration had virtually ceased about 1640,
                            and the attention of the New England leaders was turned toward the
                            thronging children in the prolific families of the settlers. The
                            religious Utopia, such as the founders had imagined when they heard the
                            voice of the Lord calling upon them to arise and depart out of the land
                            of their fathers, was to be realized by the children born in these ends
                            of the earth." As early as 1642 there was alarm at the educational
                            decline. Before 1645 there were agitations in favor of free schools in
                            New Haven, Dedham, Roxbury, and other towns. In 1644 the Commissioners
                            of the United Colonies of New England bestirred themselves to collect a
                            peck of corn from each family for Harvard College, that the supply of
                            preachers might not fail. But the graduates of Harvard were now finding
                            benefices in England, where, since the rise of the Puritans to power,
                            ministers with Puritan antecedents were much sought after. In 1646 the
                            Massachusetts General Court sadly confesses "the fewness of persons
                            accomplished to such imployments" as required education, and looks to
                            the future with something like consternation. Six years later the
                            records testify that Harvard students "as soone as they are growne vpp,
                            ready for public vse... leave the country." Meantime "the first founders
                            weare away apace." It was in the face of this disheartening exigency
                            that the school law of 1647 was adopted.
                    
                    
                    
                        XVI.
                        This law, which has produced such far-reaching and unforeseen results,
                            was confessedly a dam against the rising tide of ignorance. It was
                            passed "that learning may not be buried in the grave of our fathers in
                            the church and commonwealth." It ordained "that every township in this
                            iurisdiction, after the Lord hath increased them to the number of fifty
                            householders, shall then forth-with appointe one within their towne to
                            teach to write and to reade." This ungrammatical sentence is the vital
                            part of the law. Towns having a hundred householders were to establish
                            grammar schools to teach Latin, or to pay a fine to the nearest towns
                            having such a school. This provision for grammar schools, as the
                            preamble implies, was intended to be the capital feature of the law, but
                            it could not be enforced. On the other hand, the rude little schools for
                            mere reading and writing, to be taught usually by some resident farmer,
                            were possible in a new country, and they were realized in many townships
                            during the next half century. Those country schools that pretended to
                            the dignity of grammar schools were most of them shams or makeshifts to
                            satisfy the law by such devices as covenanting that an incompetent
                            master should teach Latin "as far as he was able," or that he should
                            "teach English and carry them on in Latin as far as he could." Even
                            where the teacher was fairly competent those desiring Latin came to be
                                
                                The school law of 1947.
                            
                            
                                Note 19.
                            
                             distressingly few. In the matter of
                            rudimentary schools a law could not achieve much. Townships might have
                            something less than fifty householders with perhaps a hundred and fifty
                            children, and yet have no school. One school in a territory of six or
                            eight miles square was but a lean provision. Considering the number of
                            voluntary schools already in existence the first effect of the law must
                            have been slight indeed. Popular education under its provisions was
                            rough and scant, as the surviving documents of the succeeding age
                            testify all unconsciously. No new kind of school was introduced by the
                            act, and the question of support was still left with each township, "as
                            the maior part of those that order the prudentials of the towne shall
                            appoint." Its importance lay in the requirement by a central authority
                            that each local community of a certain population should sustain a
                            school in some way, and its historical value consists in the principle
                            thus established. The outcome of this law adopted, in what was the most
                            religious as it was the most intolerant period of New England history,
                            has been the development of a national system of secular education for
                            many millions of children professing nearly every creed known in the
                            wide world.
                    
                    
                        XVII.
                        In human history nothing is educed from nothing; that which is exists by
                            virtue of far-reaching roots struck deep into the mold of that which was
                                
                                Note 20.
                            
                            
                                Origin of the Massachusetts school system.
                            
                             Pioneers especially have no time to
                            invent; necessity rarely brings forth anything better than imitation and
                            adaptation. What makes the school act of 1647 of consequence is the
                            legal obligation imposed on local communities to provide opportunity for
                            education. For this England afforded no example. But New England was
                            quite as likely to fetch a precedent from some Presbyterian country as
                            to follow the tradition of England. She did not need to go farther than
                            to Scotland. At the Reformation Knox desired "to purge the Churche of
                            God from all superstition" and to disseminate the new doctrines in the
                            remotest corners of Scotland. In his Buke of Discipline he demanded
                            "That everie severall churche have a schoolmaister appointed, such a one
                            as is able at least to teach Grammar and the Latin tung, yf the Town be
                            of any reputation. Yf it be upaland... then must either the Reider or
                            the Minister take cayre over the children... to instruct them in their
                            first rudimentie and especially in the catechisme." Knox proposed this
                            system sixty-seven years before the law of 1647; in both we have the
                            same Latin schools in larger towns and rudimentary teaching in obscurer
                            places. The Synod of Dort repeated the attempt in Holland in 1618.
                            Knox's scheme and the Dutch imitation of it were but an expansion of the
                            parish and cathedral schools existing for centuries before.
                        
                            1560. Note 21.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        XVIII.
                        The educational decline in all the colonies was inevitable and it was
                            universal as we may see by the extant letters, wills, and records
                            painfully written by men of the second and third generations. The
                            violent aberrations of orthography from even the rather free standards
                            of the time, the vagrant capital letters, the halting and confused march
                            of sentences, suggest that brains, as well as hands, were numbed by the
                            rude toil from which pioneers may not escape. The trees of the forest
                            were a hostile phalanx to be broken, fields beset with stumps that
                            defied the plow were to be subdued to culture; there were savages to
                            fight and to flee from, towns and ships to build, with tasks of Hercules
                            beside that left small room for learning. Frontiersmen find the Latin
                            accidence dispensable. The generations of bad spellers and clumsy
                            writers born to a new-world battle were much better trained for their
                            environment than the most accomplished of the first corners. They had
                            learned from boyhood to take bearings and lay a true course through
                            labyrinthine woods, to handle with steady sureness the heavy firelock
                            musket or the newer snaphance, and the long-barreled fowling piece, to
                            swing true the felling axe, and to wield the heavy beetle, to hew a
                            puncheon floor, to build a cabin of rough logs. They could balance and
                            paddle on salt water and fresh in wind and wild weather the tottling
                            canoe. Patience, courage, enterprise, and 
                                The decline in education.
                            
                             a nimble mental shiftiness could not but
                            result from such a curriculum. But these men hardly knew more of
                            literature than did the Greek heroes or the Hebrew patriarchs. In the
                            rather well-written manuscript records of Virginia parishes of that time
                            "the clarkes" record that the vestry "has made choyse on" one R. M. for
                            a church warden; that the parson has "affeciated"; that A. B. has been
                            "opoynted overseyear" of the highways; processioning of bounds is
                            spelled "persestioning," sufficient is "sofitiant," and so on. It is
                            entered that a certain person has been "making his redress to this
                            vestry for helpe." A Maryland vestry clerk had no notion of mental
                            reservation; he records that the vestrymen took the oath of abjuration
                            "without equivocation or governmentall reservation." In New England it
                            is amusingly pathetic to read the records of covenants with teachers
                            written by town clerks who doubled the n in English or stipulated that
                            the pupils should learn to "rite" or "wright." The awkward pronunciation
                            of the pioneer scribe shows through his phonetic spelling when those to
                            be taught appear as "childeringe," and one of the three r's in a
                            contract with a teacher is sometimes "refinetick," sometimes
                            "retmitick." Even the Boston clerk of 1652 bewrays his speech when he
                            writes of the "pore scollers of Hervert College." Local government has
                            its petty side; the New England towns had "tricks and shifts to evade
                            the school laws." Few towns escaped fine for neglect of, 
                                Divers parish records of 17th century in original MS., Fairfax
                                    Seminary.
                            
                            
                                Printed records of several towns before 1700.
                            
                             school laws in those days. In some of the
                            towns there were children that traveled long roads to school; in one
                            case it was eight miles. In New England, as in Virginia, many children
                            learned to read in the old English way by home instruction. In Virginia
                            the ability to read was perhaps about as common as in England at the
                            same period, but there are cases of a man holding local office who was
                            obliged to make his "signum" or mark in subscribing to a document; in
                            Andover, Mass., in 1664, five out of eleven on a coroner's jury made
                            marks. In other colonies than Massachusetts, Connecticut, and Virginia
                            there was yet greater illiteracy. In Maryland half the adult males were
                            probably unable to write their names during the whole seventeenth
                            century. Harvard College ran down in the general decline. "The greater
                            part of the people were devoted to the Plow," as a writer of the time
                            explains, and "learning was forced to plod out a way to live." In the
                            last quarter of the seventeenth century Harvard was a Latin and divinity
                            school, slim in attendance, and inefficient in teaching, while it was
                            kicked about as a political football in the strife between the factions
                            of the Mathers and their rivals.
                    
                    
                        XIX.
                        Through all this period of darkness and decline the colonies of
                            Massachusetts and Connecticut, and in a less degree the other New
                            England 
                                Shepard, 1672, and Ransom, 1709, in L. Swift on Election Sermons.
                                    Lincoln's Worcester, 248.
                            
                            
                                Bailey's Andover, 144.
                            
                            
                                Note 22.
                            
                            
                                Compare Quincy's Hist. Harvard, passim, and
                                    Danker's Journal, 384, 385.
                            
                            
                                Note 23.
                            
                            
                                Decline of the Latin school.
                            
                             governments, except Rhode Island,
                            preserved in form and something more that which has proved an invaluable
                            legacy for the futurea system of schools sustained in part by enforced
                            local taxation. The school that survived "the dark ages" of New England
                            was no longer that brought from England. Supported partly by town rates
                            the so-called Latin school was less able even than the English school to
                            resist the intrusion of younger children. Such pupils gave trouble at
                            Harvard, and at New Haven they "bothered the master of the grammar
                            school by learning to spell English." Yielding to the demand of
                            supporters, grammar schools came to give more attention to writing and
                            arithmetic. But this innovation was admitted grudgingly at first. "It is
                            scarce known in any place to have a free school for English and writing"
                            was the objection raised in New Haven, but even New Haven only grumbled
                            in yielding, and so by slow degrees it came to pass that the English
                            studies at last drove the sacred Latin from the free school founded at
                            first for it alone. In vain did the town meeting exhort the master to
                            "bring his boys on to latting as fast as they were capable." Latin
                            teaching barely survived at all by the aid of such hortation and of
                            repeated legislation, local and general. Other important changes came by
                            the irresistible pressure of circumstances. The remoter townsmen were
                            taxpayers also, and they tired of sending their children over weary
                            miles of snowdrifts to the township 
                                Town Records in Livermore's Republic of New Haven, 332.
                            
                            
                                Atwater's New Haven, 150.
                            
                             schools or of teaching them at home. Thus
                            as time went on "outskirt schools" grew up. In many cases, over the
                            whole region covered by township communities the schools were rotated so
                            as to be kept first in one neighborhood and then in another. In the
                            eighteenth century we find New Jersey appointing men to look after the
                            schools, and see that they rotated properly, so that all the inhabitants
                            might have a fair chance. By such processes the town school gradually
                            became the modern district school. An obligation to establish and to
                            support schools, in part at least, from the public fund having once
                            become traditional, one finds in the eighteenth century even dame
                            schools and many writing schools maintained in part or wholly at public
                            expense. Taking our stand at the point where the half-medival
                            seventeenth gives place to the far more modern eighteenth century, we
                            can see that the thousand-year-old exclusive instruction of the few was
                            in process of slow transformation into a scheme of popular and universal
                            education. As usual in such a metamorphosis, the change was made by
                            insensible gradations; the continuity was without apparent seam.
                    
                    
                        XX.
                        No such thing as public education not dominated by religion was known in
                            the seventeenth century. From dame school to university all was
                            ostensibly, perhaps ostentatiously, religious. In 
                                Lincoln's Worcester, 249.
                            
                            
                                Comp. Bailey's Andover, 519.
                            
                            
                                Budd in Gowan, 102, note.
                            
                            
                                Temple's North Brookfield, 200. Judd's Hadley, 65. Boston Town
                                    Records, passim.
                                
                            
                            
                                Maryland and Rhode Island. Note 24.
                            
                             such a state of society, governments
                            freely tolerating more than one form of religious belief could do little
                            or nothing by state initiative for education; and in communities where
                            there was a division of sentiment voluntary co-operation in schools was
                            almost impossible. In Maryland the poor little arts of reading and
                            writing were hardly known in some parts of the province, and it has been
                            estimated that in the seventeenth century half of the adult males were
                            unable to write their names. There were efforts to establish schools in
                            the lifetime of the first generation; these were kept by one Ralphe
                            Crouch, who was in some way connected with the Jesuits. Thirty-seven
                            years after the first settlement the Catholic upper House of the
                            Legislature proposed to found a government school, but the Protestant
                            lower House promptly barricaded the way by proposing as a condition that
                            all the teachers should be Protestants or that there should be at least
                            one Protestant master in the school. The notion of a wholly secular and
                            impartial rudimentary instruction had not entered the minds of men in
                            any part of Christendom. One of those "schools for humanities" for which
                            the Jesuit order was famous was begun "in the center of the country" in
                            1677, but without aid from the Maryland government. Rhode Island was
                            similarly embarrassed, and there is no mention of schools in the early
                            colony records. There were schools nevertheless. The early New England
                            system of town schools came into Rhode 
                                Compare Bozman, ii, 99. Md. Hist. Soc. Pub., No. 9. Johnson' Old
                                    Md. Manors, p. 6.
                            
                            
                                Sollers, in Steiners's Education in Md., 16
                            
                             Island by induction. Bristol, in 1682,
                            established, a school by dividing the expense between the parents of the
                            pupils and the taxpayers, a method common in the adjacent colonies. But
                            a retardation of educational development was the natural penalty of
                            religious impartiality. One of the results of the English Revolution of
                            1688 was to make Maryland for a while a crown colony and rather
                            intensely Protestant. In 1692 and in years following laws were passed
                            for the promotion of "free schools" of the old Latin school kind,
                            intended to produce candidates for holy orders who were to complete
                            their training at the new College of William and Mary in Virginia.
                    
                    
                        XXI.
                        By comparison of such notices as we have of American schools with the
                            English schools of the period, we can form a fairly clear conception of
                            the outward traits of school life in the age of American settlement. We
                            may dimly see the unwilling boy "with shining morning face" and a
                            lambskin satchel setting out for school, breakfastless, in the dark
                            winter mornings in time to begin his studies at the unchristian hour of
                            six o'clock. Some schools postponed the hour of beginning until seven.
                            The session ended at eleven, when the famished pupils went home to their
                            first meal, though in a few schools there was a recess of fifteen
                            minutes at nine o'clock, in order that those 
                                Johnson's Higher Ed'n in R. I., p. 21.
                            
                            
                                Bacon's Laws, 1692'94, xxxi; 1696, xvii; 1699, xvi; 1704,
                                xxvii.
                            
                            
                                MS. Brit. Mus. H., 115.
                            
                            
                                School and breakfast.
                            
                             who lived near the school might snatch a
                            hurried breakfast, a meal not generally reckoned with at that time.
                            There was a custom in earlier times of allowing the fasting pupils to
                            take some light food in school with bottles of drink, but if the custom
                            survived into the seventeenth century it left no trace in educational
                            literature. The session was resumed for the afternoon when the master
                            rapped on the doorpost at one o'clock, and it continued until "well-nigh
                            six at night," when the scholars, who must have been stupefied by an
                            all-day confinement, heard the welcome word of dismission, "Exeatis." In
                            a new country the rough roads and long distances must have made it next
                            to impossible to begin in the dark at six in the winter. By 1719 the
                            hour had fallen away in one place to "three quarters past seven." One
                            finds the pupils of Christopher Dock, the Pennsylvania Dutch teacher,
                            munching their "breakfast bread" along the road as they hurried to
                            school at some unearthly time, and back-country schools in America
                            retained cruelly long hours, with other cherished and venerable abuses
                            brought from Europe, until the middle of the nineteenth century. In the
                            early years of Harvard an hour was allowed at some time in the middle of
                            the forenoon for morning bever, a light snack preceded by no breakfast.
                            Half an hour was given to the afternoon bever, and an hour and a half
                            each to dinner and supper. Small allowance was made for the activity of
                            youth. There were no regular recesses for play 
                                Mulcaster's Positions, chap. xl. Brinsley's Ludus Lit., passim. Report on Burgh and Middle Class
                                    Schools in Scotland, 1867, p. 15. Knight's Colet, p. 362.
                            
                            
                                Note 25.
                            
                            
                                Note 26.
                            
                            
                                Bailey's Andover, 519.
                            
                            
                                Penny-packer's Hist. and Biog. Sketches.
                            
                            
                                Laws, Liberties, and Orders.
                            
                             in any of the schools. On occasion a
                            great man would lend his countenance to the school by a formal visit; at
                            such a time he might crave a little grace for the prisoners of learning;
                            a half holiday was granted at his request and in honor of his advent.
                            Such playtimes were of old called "remedyes," but austere Dean Colet
                            would not allow to the pupils of his new fountlation of St. Paul's a
                            playday at the request of anybody less than a king or a prelate. It was
                            thought best to cut off this ancient privilege wholly at the little
                            Virginia college; there were probably too many visitors of distinction;
                            but one afternoon a month was set apart for play, and whenever a new
                            student was enrolled "an afternoon extraordinary " was granted, "and no
                            more."
                    
                    
                        XXII.
                        On a certain day in 1563, during the prevalence of "the fever pestilence"
                            in London, there sat at dinner in Secretary Cecil's chamber at Windsor
                            Castle a group of distinguished men. Cecil turned the table talk to the
                            recent flight of some lads from the neighboring school of Eton "for fear
                            of beating," and condemned the harshness of schoolmasters. There were in
                            the company of course some of those conservatives who rise up to defend
                            any old-fashioned practice. But, as good luck would have it, there sat
                            among the dignitaries of state Roger Ascham, the archery-loving,
                            cock-fighting, learned and gifted schoolmaster, who 
                                Quincy's Harvard, i, 517.
                            
                            
                                Statutes, Knight's Colet, 308.
                            
                            
                                Ludwell MSS., i, p. 1. Comp. D'Ewes's Autobiog., i, 142.
                            
                            
                                Ascham and reform.
                            
                             had come to Windsor that day to read in
                            Greek with the young Queen Elizabeth one of the orations of Demosthenes.
                            Without title or political position it is fair to suppose that he sat
                            far down near the foot of the table; but Cecil encouraged him to speak
                            to the question, and Ascham gave his opinion strongly and no doubt
                            eloquently against the barbarity of schoolmasters. Dinner ended, Sir
                            Richard Sackville, who had held his peace while the debate went on, led
                            Ascham away to a window for private speech with him. Sackville confessed
                            to Ascham that the beatings of a "lewde Schoolmaster" had brought him to
                            hate learning before he was fourteen years old. He entreated the queen's
                            schoolmaster to write out what he had just spoken at the table. By this
                            conversation Ascham was set on writing his famous work The Scholemaster.
                            But neither the authority of Ascham nor of any other could at once abate
                            the unsparing severity of school discipline which was popularly believed
                            to be eminently beneficial to boys and of scriptural authority. Thomas
                            Becon, the reformer, had complained that schoolmasters beat their pupils
                            "like stock-fishes." Mulcaster, the successor of Ascham, had no
                            hesitation about flogging; he speaks somewhat gayly of "my lady
                            birchely." Brinsley, the able and zealous advocate of school reform in
                            the reign of James I, suggests several practical ways of avoiding brutal
                            punishments, such as the use of rewards, and the keeping of a "black
                            bill," or, 
                                Note 27.
                            
                             as we should now say, a black list; the
                            unlucky scholars set down in this list were to be deprived of their rare
                            playtimes. But even the humane Brinsley did not once dream of sparing
                            the rod for serious offenders; he thought "ferula" a necessary remedy
                            for bad Latin, and he used what he calls "little ierkes "with a small
                            switch of red willow." When little jerks with little switches would not
                            serve, he recommends more serious flogging; the young rebel to be held
                            over a form or up against a post "by three or four of his fellows,"
                            making sure "to hold him fast as they are enforced to do who are to
                            shove or tame an vnbroken colt." This was the method of a conscientious
                            and humane master; the brutalities of the unfeeling are not pleasant to
                            imagine. There were others than Sir Richard Sackville who cursed some
                            "lewde schoolmaster" for a failure to get learning, and some who
                            attributed deafness to blows received in school. It's a general plague
                            and complaint of the whole land," writes Peacham, "that for one discreet
                            and able teacher you shall find twenty ignorant and carelesse." The
                            first master at Harvard went too far even for that age; it is not
                            certain that he would have been dismissed for his barbarous punishment
                            of students and the exceedingly short commons on which he fed them, but
                            when he ferociously drubbed even his usher, beating him mercilessly with
                            a hickory stick while two of his servants held the man fast, he lost his
                            place, and set on 
                                Ludus Literarius, passim. Comp. D'Ewes, i, 63,
                                    64.
                            
                            
                                Brinsley's Consolations for Our Grammar Schooles, p. 43.
                            
                            
                                In Compleat Gentleman, 1660.
                            
                             foot a reform in college discipline. A
                            law was made limiting the punishment of students. If a student were not
                            yet "adultus "he might get ten stripes for each offense. This was very
                            mild; at Eton fifty-three stripes are recorded as given for a trivial
                            fault at an earlier period, and the young John Milton had to suffer a
                            beating from his tutor at Cambridge not very long before this. At
                            Harvard an older student was not to be beaten at all.
                    
                    
                        XXIII.
                        Sometimes, though rarely, such a phrase as "male childeringe" appears in
                            a contract with a teacher, but it was always understood that children
                            were boys only, girls did not count. There were no girls in the schools
                            sustained by towns or by endowment at the period of American settlement.
                            To read her Bible and psalm-book devoutly and to use her needle deftly
                            were the only necessary accomplishments for a woman, and these could be
                            got in a dame school or at home. The illiterate "her mark "is signed to
                            papers in the probate office by many women whose fathers were men of
                            education. "Probably not one woman in a dozen could write," says a
                            well-informed New England antiquary. In England only "the first
                            elementarie" was taught to a girl, and Governor Winthrop was convinced
                            that much learning was dangerous to a woman's wits. The education of the
                            most favored girl ceased at thirteen or four 
                                Quick, app. to Mulcaster, p. 300. Note 28.
                            
                            
                                Education of girls.
                            
                            
                                Note 29.
                            
                            
                                Dedham Historical Register, Jan., 1897, p. 18.
                            
                            
                                Judd's Hadley, 64.
                            
                             teen, at which age she began to assume
                            the responsibilities of a young woman and to blossom into a waiting
                            candidate for wifehood.
                    
                    
                        XXIV.
                        An English writer recommends the middle of the day for teaching writing,
                            because the fingers would then be warmer and nimbler, which suggests
                            schoolrooms with no fire. In New England one finds the summer school
                            sometimes kept in "the unfinished room" of a house which is spoken of as
                            though a room unfinished was a normal part of a new-country house. The
                            kitchen of a dwelling, with its great fireplace, was sometimes made a
                            schoolroom in winter, or in its stead the "parlor"; the best room
                            reserved for weddings and funerals, on which occasions the bare floor
                            would be neatly strewn with sand. Even where there was a schoolhouse, as
                            at Dedham in 1658, the schoolmaster was allowed to assemble the school
                            in his own house "if the weather be extreme and unfit to travaill." In
                            that climate there early grew up a custom of exacting a half cord or a
                            "Wayne load of wood for fewell" for each pupil. This was to be delivered
                            at the schoolhouse in November, for no man of English origin in the
                            first two or three generations after settlement knew that wood could be
                            drawn much more easily on sleds over the snow.
                        
                            Traits of schools.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        XXV.
                        The direct influence in America of the advanced education of the
                            seventeenth century was not great. No one with any sense of historic
                            perspective will believe that the university men who lived or sojourned
                            in Virginia in the early seventeenth century had any traceable relation
                            to the group of Virginia statesmen that grew as from a congenial soil in
                            the later eighteenth; it is equally fanciful to suppose that the
                            existence of a considerable body of Cambridge men in early New England
                            had anything to do with producing the literary forwardness of that
                            region two hundred years later. But the university ideals of the time
                            influenced directly the course of thought in the new provinces. Logic
                            was the main study in all higher institutions, and the logic bequeathed
                            by the schoolmen meant merely incessant practice of the art of
                            dialectical disputation as a means of acquiring universal truth. In
                            sermons and in conversation this verbal sword play was much affected and
                            it, rendered the wits nimble. But this highly valued "Aristotelian
                            method" had for ages retarded the advance toward larger learning and
                            broader views. Milton's disappointment in the university was great, and
                            his contempt for its studies is delightfully Miltonic if not always
                            discriminating. In his vehement complaint he ransacks "lofts of pild
                            thunder" for missiles with which to assail the curriculum of his time.
                            It is "a pure trifling at grammar and sophistry," "an 
                                College ideals.
                            
                            
                                Masson's Life of Milton, i, 197.
                            
                             asinine feast of sow thistles and
                            brambles"; the students are "mocked and deluded "with ragged notions and
                            babblements while they expect worthy and delightful knowledge." The
                            universities in his opinion were "not yet well recovered from the
                            scholastic grossness of the barbaric ages." There were university
                            students of sound intellectual appetite, like Milton himself, who
                            contrived to find fruit in fields set thick with the sow thistles of
                            scholastic logic and the brambles of medival metaphysics. Others, on
                            being abruptly thrust at fifteen years of age into these studies, took
                            "such a distaste of what seemed to them a mere rattle of words, that
                            they were very slowly, if ever, reconciled."
                    
                    
                        XXVI.
                        In 1636 the Massachusetts General Court voted two hundred pounds toward
                            "a schoole or colledge," and the next year selected Newton, the present
                            Cambridge, as the place for it. This proposition might have proved as
                            futile as the early proposals for a college in Virginia had it not been
                            that John Harvard, a minister, dying in 1638, left a legacy for the
                            proposed institution which thus had the breath of life breathed into it
                            and became Harvard College. It was established on the most religious
                            plan possible. The study of divinity was made the chief end of a
                            student, prayer and religious consecration were prescribed academic
                            duties; Bible reading twice a day and the faithful reporting of 
                                Note 30.
                            
                            
                                Lives of the Norths, iii, 283.
                            
                            
                                Harvard College.
                            
                            
                                Quincy's History of Harvard College, i, 515, 517.
                            
                             sermons were enjoined. The test for the
                            first degree was a student's ability to render the Old and New
                            Testaments out of Hebrew and Greek into Latin "and to resolve them
                            logically." For the second degree a summary knowledge of logic, natural
                            and moral philosophy, arithmetic, geometry, and astronomy were added.
                            There was here a slender recognition of mathematics in advance of the
                            English universities. The modes of study seem to have been mechanical
                            after the manner of the time. In the earlier years of the college each
                            student was accustomed to transcribe for himself certain treatises in
                            manuscript on logic and other studies made by Alexander Richardson of
                            Oxford. In examining the list of subjects for graduating theses we are
                            now and then refreshed by the intrusion of a question that has to do
                            with human progress; the question of the circulation of the blood was
                            discussed in 1660, and was again mooted in 1699, more than seventy years
                            after Harvey had announced his discovery. For the most part the themes
                            with which college graduates in that day busied themselves are
                            grotesquely futile as, "whether privation is the cause of anything in
                            Nature," "whether genus exists out-side of intellect," and "whether a
                            shadow moves." Behold philosophy! It was proved at Harvard commencements
                            by reasoners with youth and courage on their side that the starry heaven
                            is made of fire; that there is a stone which produces gold; and that the
                            quadrature of the circle is possible.
                        
                            Letter of Leonard Hoar, in Mass. Coll., vi.
                        
                        
                        The lawfulness and the possibility of curing wounds by sympathetic powder
                            excited attention just before and after 1700, and the existence of a
                            universal remedy was question equally belated in agitating scholastic
                            minds in America. We have in these questions the everlasting mark-time
                            of medival philosophy, marching ostentatiously, but never moving out of
                            its tracks.
                    
                    
                        XXVII.
                        After the Restoration Virginia began to feel an alarm like that which had
                            startled Massachusetts earlier. It is probable that the deprived
                            churchmen who occupied Virginia parishes during the Commonwealth were
                            now returning to England to reap the reward of their fidelity to the
                            king. It was feared that the "want of able & faithful Ministers"
                            would deprive the colonists of "those great Blessings and Mercies that
                            allwaies attend upon the Service of God," and the Assembly passed an act
                            in 1661, and again in 1662, to found "a colledge and free schoole." But
                            Sir William Berkeley, the governor, did not want either a college or a
                            free school, and Berkeley, with a salary independent of the good will of
                            the people, was more absolute in Virginia than his master Charles was in
                            England. This pinchbeck Stuart detested ministers who were able to
                            preach, and he abhorred printing presses. But the Virginia educational
                            movement at the time of the Restoration was not 
                                Young's Subjects for the Master's Degree at Harvard,
                                pamphlet.
                            
                            
                                William and Mary College.
                            
                            
                                Purvis' Laws of Va., 1662. Comp.
                            
                            
                                Hening, 1661 and 1662, pp. 25, 56.
                            
                             wholly without result. If the proposed
                            subscription for the college was ever taken, it probably was not
                            collected, and the "houseing "ordered to be erected for the college is
                            not again heard of. But at least two bequests to found new free schools
                            were made in Berkeley's depressing reign. After the disorders and
                            despotisms which followed the failure of Nathaniel Bacon's bold stroke
                            for freedom in 1676 had passed away, a college subscription was set on
                            foot in 1688 and 1689, and sums amounting to twenty-five hundred pounds
                            were promised by wealthy Virginians and a few English merchants. The
                            confusion resulting from the English Revolution of 1688 probably caused
                            delay. Two years more elapsed before the Assembly took action by
                            ordaining an institution in three departmentsa grammar school, a school
                            of philosophy, and a school of Oriental languages and divinity. A
                            charter was secured from the sovereigns. William and Mary, whose names
                            the college took, gave freely out of the wild lands of the province, out
                            of the royal revenues from tobacco, and gave outright the income from
                            the fees for surveying land. The Virginia Assembly added an import duty
                            on furs. In 1700, while the building designed by Sir Christopher Wren
                            was yet unfinished, the college at the close of its first year held a
                            commencement. The novelty of such an exercise attracted a large
                            concourse of people to the new town of Williamsburg. Some of the great
                            planters came in coaches, which vehicles were yet rare enough 
                                Comp. Hening's Statutes, ii, 30.
                            
                            
                                1691.
                            
                            
                                1693.
                            
                            
                                Note 31.
                            
                             in America to be noticeable. Other
                            visitors arrived in their own sloops, sailing in some instances from the
                            upper waters of the Chesapeake, and in other cases on the op n ocean
                            from Pennsylvania and New York. Some even of the Indians gathered their
                            blankets round them and strolled into the little capital to lend
                            picturesqueness to this powwow of white men. The opening of an infant
                            college was a notable break in the rather eventless monotony of a
                            half-settled coast, remote from the great world.
                        The so-called college, thus hopefully launched, drifted inevitably into
                            the whirlpools and eddies of petty provincial politics; its revenues
                            were a tempting bait to the ring of predatory colonial magnates and
                            ambitious sycophants that surrounded a royal governor in that day.
                            William and Mary College was but a grammar school for years after its
                            start, and its development was tediously slow. But most of its resources
                            were saved from plunder and waste, and at the outbreak of the Revolution
                            it was said to be the richest institution of learning in Americafor all
                            of which it was primarily indebted to a single man.
                    
                    
                        XXVIII.
                        While Scottish example, as we have conjectured, had its influence in the
                            founding of Harvard, the influence was more direct in Virginia, where
                            the final success of the college was due to a Scotch 
                                Charles Campbell' Hist. of Virginia, 361, 362.
                            
                            
                                Compare Hugh Jones's Present State of Va., 1724, 83, 84.
                            
                            
                                Dr. Blair.
                            
                             man. Behind the measures taken to advance
                            the project by the Assembly and governor in Virginia, by the king and
                            queen, by the Primate and the Bishop of London, by Locke the
                            philosopher, and by the executors of Robert Boyle, there is the moving
                            hand of James Blair, one of the most pertinacious men ever born in a
                            land of obstinate pertinacity. Having seen the subscription well made up
                            in Virginia, Blair went to England in 1691 with a commission from the
                            Assembly to procure the best charter possible and a royal endowment. The
                            traditions of the court were dead against him. The government of Charles
                            II had made a point of discouraging in Virginia printing presses,
                            education, and other influences that unfit people for docile submission
                            to tyranny. The colony was to buy English wares, to swell the customs
                            revenues by producing the heavily taxed tobacco, and to buy negroes from
                            the Royal African Company, in which not only great courtiers but royalty
                            itself had held shares. When Blair argued the need of a college for the
                            sake of the souls of the people, Seymour, the attorney general, replied
                            contemptuously, "Damn your souls, make tobacco!" A less contentious man
                            than Blair would have given up and gone home, a man less canny and
                            persistent must have failed. He contrived to secure William's attention
                            in the midst of the exigent affairs of a critical time, and he managed
                            to gain the support of both the sovereigns. His manuvres were worthy of
                            an expert courtier; he played Archbishop Ten 
                                Am. and W. Inds., bundle 637.
                            
                             nison and the Bishop of London and Queen
                            Mary herself with skill, and won his suit handsomely. He carried back a
                            charter for a studium generate, a place of universal
                            study. After his return he fought triumphantly with petty courtiers and
                            successive governors, breaking Sir Edmund Andros himself, who had
                            contrived to survive for many years the infamy of a great variety of
                            disgraceful conduct in his various governments. Dr. Blair was a man of
                            versatile ability; his printed sermons passed through several editions,
                            and he held his place as bishop's commissary at the head of the Virginia
                            clergy for half a century. His discipline was mild, and he fought the
                            battles of his order against encroachments, but his clergy disliked and
                            opposed him. He resisted the oppressions of the royal governors, but the
                            people were never attracted to him. He had no arts of conciliation, and
                            he had no lubricating humor. He delighted to carry a measure by mere
                            push of pike, and to his contemporaries he was a bundle of pugnacities.
                            Every man born north of the Tweed was an object of prejudice, and Blair
                            was accused, moreover, of having received nothing better than a
                            Presbyterian ordination. Though no one seems to have questioned his
                            honesty, it was complained that he "had large worldly concerns." He
                            lived to an advanced age, and died rich in a land where many thriftless
                            and often dissipated parsons got on but meanly. He was one of the chief
                            benefactors of a colony that never showed him, young or old, living or
                                 dead, the slightest gratitude of
                            which there is any record. A single noble legacy made the obscure John
                            Harvard immortal, but fifty years of resolute service and a liberal
                            legacy to the college brought no honors to the founder of William and
                            Mary. A good and public-spirited man, he was personally unlikable. But
                            had Blair been less rugged, there might have been no "College Royal of
                            William and Mary."
                    
                    
                        XXIX.
                        At the end of the seventeenth century there were efficient beginnings of
                            higher education only in Massachusetts, Connecticut, and Virginia. New
                            York was too much divided by the various nationalities of its people and
                            too deeply interested in a trade reaching from Lake Ontario to the
                            pirate settlements of Madagascar to have advanced beyond rudimentary
                            schools. Pennsylvania and the Carolinas were too new, Maryland and Rhode
                            Island too much subdivided in religion, and the eastward settlements of
                            New England were too backward in development. Massachusetts had firmly
                            established a college destined to an illustrious career, Connecticut was
                            about to start into the new century with her Yale College, and Virginia
                            was flushed with hope of a time when the grammar school at Williamsburg
                            should grow into "a certaine place of universall study," as its charter
                            proposed. These small beginnings were enough to mark the persistence in
                            the Western world of the 
                                Colonies without colleges.
                            
                             English tradition in favor of higher
                            education. In communities like the expanding English-American colonies
                            of that time, necessarily materialistic in ideals and schemes of life,
                            the mere existence of schools whose principal studies had no value that
                            could be balanced against tobacco and codfish, pipe staves and beaver
                            skinsstudies whose value could not be reckoned in pine-tree shillings
                            and pieces of eightwas of high import.
                    
                    
                        ELUCIDATIONS.
                        
                        "In the same year of our Lord's incarnation, 664," says Bede, "a sudden
                            pestilence... ravaged the country far and near... This pestilence did no
                            less harm in the island of Ireland. Many of the nobility and of the
                            lower ranks of the English nation were there at that time,... either for
                            the sake of Divine studies or of a more continent life; and some of them
                            presently devoted themselves to a monastic life, others chose rather to
                            apply themselves to study, going about from one master's cell to
                            another. "Egbert, one of the Englishmen among the Culdees in Ireland,
                            succeeded in escaping from the plague by vowing that he would say the
                            whole psalter daily to the praise of God, and that he would every week
                            fast one whole day and night. The account of his austerities in Bede,
                            book iii, chap. xxvii, throws light on the ideals of life taught in the
                            monasteries of the seventh century. In Tanner's Notitia Monastica he
                            says of the Culdees: "The ancient British, Irish, and Saxon Monasteries,
                            we find, were Schools and Universities of those times; they were not
                            only Cells of Devotion, but also Nurseries of Learned Men for the use of
                            the Church." To imagine anything like modern school or university
                            instruction or learning in the monasteries of that early age would be
                            misleading. In the Catholic monasteries and cathedral establishments
                            organization was perhaps more perfect than among the Culdees. We get a
                            view of higher and lower instruction as already established in a canon
                            of A. D. 747, number 7, in Johnson's Ecclesiastical Laws. Some curious
                            traits of the schools in the houses of the priests may be deduced from
                            the canons in the 
                                Note 1 page 208.
                            
                            
                                Schools before the 'Reformation.
                            
                             same work under A. D 960, numbers 10, 11,
                            51, and A. D. 994, numbers 19 and 20. "When the Monks were rooted out by
                            the Danish wars," says Tanner, "an universal ignorance overspread the
                            land, insomuch that there was scarce any one in England that could read
                            or write Latin. But when, by the care of King Edgar and Archbishop
                            Dunstan, Monasteries were restored, Learning found its former
                            encouragement." Preface to Notitia Monastica. Fitzstephen relates that
                            there were famous schools in three principal churches of London in the
                            twelfth century. Furnivall cites a saying of Roger Bacon that there were
                            schools in every city, town, burgh, and castle in the thirteenth
                            century. Compare also Wright's Domestic Manners and Sentiments in the
                            Middle Ages, 338 and ff. There is evidence of the survival of the
                            teaching of children by the mass priest in the action of the corporation
                            of Bridgenorth. When a more modern "Comyn Scole" was substituted at the
                            beginning of the sixteenth century, a by-law was adopted which ordained
                            that "there schall no priste kepe no scole save oonly oon child to helpe
                            hym to sey masse." MSS. Commission, x, part iv, 425. There is an
                            instance as late as Mary's reign of the restoration of an ancient
                            endowment by town lands for the support of a priest "Habill to teache
                            Grammar." Ibid., 533. In Collier's Ecclesiastical History, part ii, book
                            iii, 165 (Lathbury's edition, vol. v, 29), we read: "The abbeys were
                            very serviceable places for the education of young people; every convent
                            had one person or more assigned for this business. Thus the children of
                            the neighborhood were taught [Latin] grammar and music without any
                            charge to their parents: and in the nunneries those of the other sex
                            learned to work and read English, with some advances into Latin." Stow,
                            in his Survey of London, notes that the Lateran Council in 1176
                            recognized cathedral schools, but in the Capitularies of Theodolf they
                            are carried back to the end of the eighth century, and were, beyond
                            doubt, still older. Johnson's Ecclesiastical Laws, 994, 19. Down to the
                            end of the tenth century almost the only seminaries in Charlemagne's
                            dominions appear to have been in cathedrals and convents. First Report
                            of Cathedral Commission, xxv. It is to be noted that many of the English
                            cathedrals were monastic institutions; in eight out of seventeen in the
                            twelfth century the chapters were composed entirely of monks. Collier's
                            Ecclesiastical History, book iv, cent. xii, 341 (vol. ii, 232, of
                            Lathbury). On the origin of cathedrals and the colleges in the early
                            Episcopia, see Report of Cathedral Commission, p. iv.
                        
                        Schotel, in his Oud Hollandsch Huisgezin der Zeventiende Eeuw, p. 75,
                            says of education in Holland: "In the earliest time most of the parish
                            churches had their schools... The school of the cathedral church
                            [hoofdkerk] took the name of the great school... In these last were
                            taught not only Greek and Latin, but Dutchthat is, reading, writing, and
                            ciphering, and not alone to the children of the well-to-do, but to the
                            poor as well. They were all comrades in the school as in the street."
                            Roger's Work and Wages, 165, 166, remarks on the widely diffused
                            knowledge of Latin in the middle ages. Until the fourteenth century
                            English was not even suffered to play tender to Latin in the schools,
                            but in 1363 "it was ordeined that schoolemasters should teach their
                            scholers to construe their lessons in English & not in French,
                            as before they had beene vsed." Holinshed, ii, 678. Down to the
                            Reformation Latin was taught before the reading of English, as we learn
                            from Mulcaster, an Elizabethan schoolmaster. "Now," he adds, "we are
                            returned home to our English abce." Positions, chap. v.
                        A definite number of scholars were to be sustained in each cathedral
                            while living in commons. Whiston's Cathedral Trusts and Harrison's
                            Description of Britaine, i, 235. The First Cathedral Report, p. xxiv,
                            cites Cranmers Reformatio Legum that every cathedral should maintain a
                            school for the mature education of youth. Chantry priests, whose support
                            came from endowments for prayers for the dead, found their occupation
                            gone when the government had forbidden all praying for the dead, and had
                            indeed abolished purgatory. It was therefore ordained that such priests
                            should "exercise themselves in teaching youth to read and write and
                            bring them up in good manners and vertuous exercises." Bills were
                            brought into Parliament in Edward VI's reign "for incouraging men to
                            give lands for the maintenance of schools." Tanner's Notitia Monastica,
                            preface, citing MS. authority.
                        By suppressing the alien priories, which were but offshoots of foreign
                            monasteries, Henry V made a tempting precedent for Henry VIII, but Henry
                            VI supplied the place of the schools lost with the suppressed priories
                            in the preceding reign by founding various free schools in 1393 and
                            1394. See the section on Schooles and Houses of Learning in Stow's
                            Survey of London, and Collier's treatment of this period in his
                            Ecclesiastical History. Dean Colet's foundation of St. Pauls School in
                            1512 was "in place of an old ruined house," says Stow, and Christ's
                            Hospital, in 1553, 
                                Note 2, page 209.
                            
                            
                                Note 3, page 210.
                            
                             was planted in the "late dissolved house
                            of the Grey Friars," and "a school was ordained there." Many of the new
                            free schools of the Reformation period were endowed out of the spoils of
                            the monasteries. "For the most part the endowments were out of the
                            tithes formerly belonging to the religious houses or out of chantry
                            lands given to the king in the first of his reign, according to the
                            intent of parliament therein, which was to convert them from
                            superstitious uses into more godly, as in erecting great schools for the
                            education of youth in virtue and godliness." Strype's Memorials (1822),
                            vii, part ii, pp. 50, 51. Thomas Williams, Speaker of the House of
                            Commons, in 1562 "took notice of the Want of Schools; that at least an
                            Hundred were wanting in England which before his time had been." In
                            giving this passage Strype adds, "being destroyed (I suppose he meant)
                            by the Dissolution of Monasteries and Religious Houses." Annals of the
                            Reformation, i, 292. The demand for Latin schools was no doubt increased
                            by the growing ambition of the people in the new social conditions. No
                            means were so convenient "to make Jack a gentleman" as to send him to
                            the university to win the coveted title of "Mr." Even cobblers sought
                            education for their sons. Hall's Satires, iv, II; Howell's Letters, 405,
                            406. Mulcaster thought that every child should learn to read English and
                            also to write for his "necessary dealings. "Positions, chap. 36. He
                            refuses Latin to the common people because of the prevailing ambition to
                            rise in England, but he adds significantly that "both clownes in the
                            countrie and artificers in townes be allowed lattine in well gouerned
                            states, who yet rest in their callings." "Factors or Marchants and the
                            like, going beyond seas find it necessary and convenient to speak
                            Latin," says Brinsley, Ludus Literarius, 211.
                        There was published in 1538 an A B C book, and it has been reprinted. The
                            editor writes a preface wherein he says the Ten Commandments are not
                            included. But they are included in rhymerhyme was the only amelioration
                            of reading in that day. This is the authorized primer of 1538, though
                            the editor says it is not. It has the A B C and the "a b abs," the
                            Lord's Prayer in Latin and English, the Hail Mary in both tongues, and.
                            the Creed in both. Then there are parts of songs in Latin, "to help a
                            priest to sing "that is, for the child to help him to sing. This is
                            followed, wholly in English, by an extended grace before and grace after
                            "dyner." Then there is a grace for "fysshe dayes" and grace after
                            dinner, and a short grace to be said before 
                                Note 4, page 213.
                            
                             dinner and another to be said before
                            "dyner" or "souper," a short grace after dinner and another after dinner
                            or supper, then two graces after supper, then an Easter grace before and
                            after dinner, then a prayer, then the Ten Commandments in rhyme, and
                            then a series of rhyming precepts. The great number of graces before and
                            after meat came from the habit of having children say grace. There were
                            no breakfasts in Henry VIII's time, and no graces for such a meal.
                        One may be permitted to doubt the unbroken continuity of the master's
                            Latin in many cases. The language in which the celebrated Harvey
                            lectured to medical students on the circulation of the blood was
                            probably better Latin than an ordinary schoolmaster's, but it is
                            intentionally mottled throughout with English. Take this phrase for one
                            example of a thousand: "Exempto corde frogg scipp eele crawle dogg
                            ambulat." Prelectiones, 7. But Bacon says that pupils are to make paper
                            books and to note the best sentences of the Roman tongue, and practice
                            them in speaking and writing.
                        I have referred in the margin to Wigglesworth's complaint of the
                            "boldness to transgress the college law in speaking English." Brinsley
                            laments the remissness of his time in teaching English. Some colleges in
                            the English universities made the constant use of Latin obligatory
                            (Brinsley's Ludus, 211), but in all lectures and exercises were in
                            Latin. Harvard students were quite unable to speak Latin when Dankers
                            met them in 1689. It may safely be said that the colloquial use of Latin
                            never found a lodgment in America.
                        Brinsley had "laboured and striven by Ferula and all meanes of severity"
                            to improve the Latin of his boys, but he says, "I have not been able to
                            make Schollers to vtter their mindes in any tollerable manner of
                            ordinary things," etc., "without great severity." He confesses" they
                            will not be brought to give overspeaking English." Ludus Literarius,
                            215. Theoretically, students admitted to Harvard could all speak Latin,
                            but the requirements for admission were probably not strictly exacted.
                            "When any scholar is able to read Tully or such like classical Latin
                            author extempore, and to make and speak true Latin in
                            verse and prose Suo (ut aiunt) Marte, and decline
                            perfectly the paradigms of nouns and verbs in the Greek tongue, then may
                            he be admitted into the college." Laws, etc., of Harvard, 1642-1646.
                            Quincy's Harvard College, i, 515.
                        
                            Note 5, page 215.
                        
                        
                            Note 6, page 215.
                        
                        
                            Note 7, page 215.
                        
                        
                            Note 8, page 215.
                        
                        
                        The rage for disputation in the schools had been even greater in earlier
                            times before logic had been mainly relegated to the universities.
                            Fitzstephen says in the twelfth century that upon holy days assemblies
                            gather in the churches to hear these disputaitons of scholars, in which
                            all the technical forms of reasoning and rhetoric taught by the
                            schoolmen are practiced for display, and boys of the different schools
                            "wrangle together in the art of versifying, and canvase the principles
                            of Grammar." Stow's Survey, 705, with his quaint translation, 710, 799,
                            edition 1633. In the sixteenth century this had been done away with, but
                            Stow himself had seen assemblies of boys from various schools gathered
                            in a churchyard to dispute on an improvised platform about the
                            principles of grammar for the fun of the thing. As above, 64. When these
                            gatherings ceased the boys from the rival schools of St. Pauls and St.
                            Anthonys would provoke one another in the open street with the challenge
                            to debate "Salve tu quoque, placet tibi mecum disputare?" To which the
                            reply "Placet" being given, they fell to wrangling over tenses and
                            constructions until often there ensued a general scrimmage of the two
                            parties laden with satchels of books and piling themselves on one
                            another in heaps to the obstruction of the streets.
                        The usher who was ultimately to be master of the free school at Charles
                            City, Va., was apparently incompetent to teach writing and arithmetic.
                            The Company gave him permission to take with him "an expert writer," who
                            should be able to teach" the grounds of arithmetic,
                            whereby to instruct the children in matters of account." But no other
                            provision was made for such a man than to give him his passage free,
                            leaving him to be paid by the parents. Abstract of Records, ii, 167. The
                            form proposed for the organization of the school at Charles City, Va.,
                            was identical with that carried out in the grammar school of William and
                            Mary College, nearly a hundred years later. There was in both a master,
                            an usher, and a writing master. Compare Ingle's Letter, 1705, in
                            Historical Collections relating to the Colonial Church, Virginia, 140.
                            See the statute regulating the mendicancy of scholars of the university
                            in 1388. Statutes at Large, ii, 302. Students appear to have continued
                            to beg until forbidden by the statute of 1572 in the reign of Elizabeth.
                            Compare also Jusseraud's English Wayfaring Life, 232, 233, and Wright's
                            Domestic Manners, 339. The "poor scholars" were still made prominent in
                            early appeals for Harvard College, and one is tempted to suspect, from
                            the prominence given to Indian education at Harvard 
                                Note 9, page 217.
                            
                             and in the early Virginia projects, that
                            the "infidel" was substituted in part for the poor scholar as a means of
                            stimulating liberality. A kind of mixed school, in which plebeian
                            arithmetic jostled Latin grammar, existed in England and appeared early
                            in America. For example, Dedham Records for 1663, 1670, iv, 67, 133.
                            Bailey's Andover, 517. Compare p. 520 of Bailey, where there is a sort
                            of confession that English studies are intruders in a Latin school, for
                            a schoolmaster in 1723 is specifically bound as an additional duty "that
                            he wold Teach boys to Read, Rite, and Cypher." Comp. MSS. Commission X,
                            part iv, 138-140, where in 1695 a so-called writing school endowed by
                            Sir John Moore is expected to fit boys for the university.
                        The old conception of education is struggling with the new. Of old higher
                            education was the property of the few. In 1559 one of the measures
                            suggested to Parliament was that the study of the laws, temporal or
                            civil, be restricted to the sons of noblemen or gentlemen. Seven years
                            later Knox sought to teach everybody their "first rudimentie" in order
                            to render them Protestant. In 1616 the Synod of Dort tried to teach the
                            catechism to all for purposes of religious indoctrination. In 1622 we
                            find Brinsley struggling blindly with the principles of education, "God
                            having ordained schooles of learning to be a principall meanes to reduce
                            a barbarous people to ciuilities." It was just twenty-five years later
                            that Massachusetts proposed to confound "the ould deluder Satan" by
                            schools especially in Latin and Greek and Hebrew, but English schools
                            were finally almost the only outcome of the act, the practical sense of
                            the people gradually doing away with the superannuated Latin school. Of
                            course, the clergy were educated in Latin. Justus Forward, of
                            Belchertown, Mass., so late as 1763, writes D. D. (dies dominica) for
                            Sunday, and several other days appear in their Latin dress. He says
                            "studiebam" and "occupatus studiendo," "occupatus de iisdem," and
                            "Daniel dragged ibidem," in his English diary. MS. in my possession.
                        The first Virginia Assembly, in 1619, petitioned in favor of the erection
                            of a proposed "university and college." New York Historical Collections,
                            iii, i, 342. The Company, with wise forethought, reserved liberal tracts
                            of land for the support of churches and a local school in each
                            plantation. Smith of Nibley MSS., New York Public Library. In Fuller's
                            Worthies, i, 566, 567, it is said that Edward Palmer (whom Camden, in
                            his Britannia, 1610, 
                                Note 10, page 219.
                            
                            
                                Note 11, page 221.
                            
                             folio 366, calls "a curious and diligent
                            antiquarie," and who died in 1625) purchased an island in Virginia,
                            called "Palmer's Island unto this day," and that he spent several
                            thousand pounds in a fruitless endeavor to plant an academy upon it.
                            Neill, in his Virginia Vetusta, says that the island in question was at
                            the mouth of the Susquehanna, and gives for authority the
                            Hermans-Fai-thorne map. I had the unique copy of this map in the British
                            Museum examined, and received this report: "There is no island marked
                            Palmer's Island on the map indicated at the embouchure of the
                            Susquehanna or at any other point. There are marks of islands, but no
                            name attached." That the island at the mouth of the Susquehanna was
                            called Palmer's Island is to be deduced from the Proceedings of the
                            Council in Maryland Archives, where an observation of its longitude is
                            recorded in 1683. It was a wild and solitary place for a school.
                        In 1467 a testator left a cow to keep wax candles burning before the
                            image of the Virgin in Felsham Church. In 1530 two cows were bequeathed
                            "to the sepulchre light in Ampton Church to continew for evyr." In such
                            cases the increase of the kine went to make the bequest perpetual. Bury
                            wills, Camden Society, pp. 44 and 249. Dr. Fuller, the physician of the
                            Pilgrims, gave "the first cow calf that my brown cow shall have to the
                            church of God at Plymouth," and a ewe lamb was a common bequest to that
                            church. Brigham, in Lowell Institute Lectures, 174, 175.
                        In the manuscript records of Christ Church parish, Middlesex County, Va.,
                            I find allusion to a free school already existing, for the benefit of
                            which two cows have been bequeathed in 1691. As early as 1655 four cows
                            were left in Isle of Wight County for maintaining and schooling orphans.
                            In 1669 King Free School, in the same county, was established by
                            bequest, and some other endowments can be traced, while there were those
                            probably of which no record has been found. See two papers on this
                            subject in the William and Mary Quarterly for 1897.
                        The boast of Sir William Berkeley, in 1671, that there were no free
                            schools in VirginiaHening, ii, 511 and ff., and Virginia Historical
                            Register, iii, 12has been repeated by superficial writers on the period.
                            Berkeley adds, "Learning has brought disobedience and heresy and sects
                            into the world." The passage is but a vivacious revelation of the state
                            of mind of a willful and avaricious dotard, in whom contempt for the
                            popular rights and the 
                                Note 12, page 221.
                            
                            
                                Note 13, page 222.
                            
                            
                                Note 14, page 222.
                            
                             wishes of the people was hardening into
                            that brutality which made his last years so terrible for Virginia, and
                            brought about his own ignominious downfall. In 1671, when Berkeley
                            wrote, the Symmes free school was in existence, the Eaton school was
                            founded before 1646 probably, the King Free School endowment was made
                            two years before, and four years later Peasley's liberal bequest was
                            given for another free school. Both the Symmes and Eaton schools were in
                            existence more than a century after their planting. An act had been
                            passed in 1661 for the founding of a college which involved a free
                            school. Berkeley probably knew better than any other person why the
                            project slumbered. See section xxv of the present chapter. But the
                            English system of free schools did not and could not obtain to any
                            considerable extent in Virginia in 1671 or even later; physical and
                            social conditions were against it. Compare Foote's Virginia, i, 12. In
                            colony times the only Virginia school that rose to the dignity of the
                            English free schools was the one attached to William and Mary College.
                            Compare the inhibitions of printing in Virginia in 1682, Virginia
                            Historical Register, iii, 13, and the utter prohibition of printing
                            presses in Effingham's instructions of 1685. The allusions to schools in
                            the seventeenth century that can be picked up from the remaining local
                            records of Virginia are not many, but by comparing them with Beverley's
                            statement of Effingham's course in licensing teachers about 1684, and
                            then examining the replies of the Virginia clergy in 1724 to the Queries
                            of the Bishop of London, we can form some notion of the voluntary
                            education by means of "old field schools" that early grew up among the
                            Virginians. As the bishop's query asks only about parish schools, some
                            of the replies give negative information; but wherever the clergyman
                            mentions the rustic schools they seem to be fairly numerous for a new
                            country, to be taught by men and not women, and not to be above the
                            level of the rough country school of the period elsewhere. "In most
                            parishes," says Hugh Jones, "are schools in Little Houses built on
                            purpose, where are taught English and writing." One private school for
                            Latin and Greek flourishes in the same parish with two endowed schools
                            of a lower grade. In one case a plantation was given to the incumbent of
                            the parish on condition that he should sustain "a sufficient person" to
                            teach reading, writing, and arithmetic. In Maryland, the ideal of Bray
                            was a free school in every county, and one or two in the province for
                            Indians. This does not account for the little schools. General View of
                            the Colonies, prefixed to sermon of 1697, p. 7.
                        
                        In Ciuile and Vnciuile Life, 1579, 1586, Roxburghe edition, p. 21, the
                            country gentleman is made to say," Wee gentlemen in the Country, vnlesse
                            our sonnes proceed in the study of the common lawes, Diunitie, or
                            Phisicke, doo hold them learned ynough if they can write and read
                            English, and congrue Latine." Note that he must" congrue Latine"that is,
                            after a fashion put it together. This probably represents the education
                            thought fit for his son by the Virginia planter a hundred years later.
                            Even so much Latin probably could not always be had.
                        There were some convicts who were capable of teaching, but the convicts
                            were not usually of the kind to supply teachers, and in Virginia in the
                            seventeenth century there were fewer of these than of indentured
                            servants known as" free-willers" who had embarked of their own accord,
                            and the" kids" who had been" trapanned" aboard ship by craft or force.
                            The schoolmasters no doubt usually belonged to the class of voluntary or
                            involuntary redemptioners, and not among the petty criminals who were
                            sold for seven years. The will of Colonel John Carter, in 1669,
                            specifically provides for the purchase of a bond servant who had been"
                            brought up in the Latin school," to teach his son Robert, afterward the
                            famous King Carter of Virginia. See quotations from the records at
                            Lancaster Court House in a letter from Mr. Wilson Miles Cary in The
                            Nation of April 22, 1897. Boucher long afterward says that two thirds of
                            the schools in Maryland were taught either by indentured servants or by
                            convicts. Causes, 184, 189. I think the convicts much the smaller of the
                            two classes. Boucher would have mentioned the fact had it been the other
                            way.
                        The general responsibility of a corporate town as such for the support of
                            its school, where there was one, was a trait of English life, carried
                            over to the rustic municipalities or" towns" of New England, and
                            gradually changed to our more local system. Compare, for example, what
                            Brinsley says in 1622 in speaking of badly managed schools: "That it
                            were better to turne the maintenance given to the schoole to bear the
                            charges of the towne for other duties and seruices then so vnprofitably
                            to employ it." Consolations for Our Grammar Schooles, 43.
                        The rough life of the frontier has always been dangerous to morals and
                            manners. The remedy proposed in Massachusetts was rather traditional
                            than practical. It was ordained in 1642 that children when tending
                            cattle were to employ their time at spinning on the rock or distaff and
                            knitting tape, and boys and 
                                Note 15, page 223.
                            
                            
                                Note 16, page 224.
                            
                            
                                Note 17, page 226.
                            
                            
                                Note 18, page 228.
                            
                             girls were forbidden to converse
                            together. Such an order was doubtless without any result. In 1645, after
                            the news of the great Virginia massacre had startled New England, boys
                            were ordered to learn the use of small guns, half pikes, and bows and
                            arrows, thus reviving old English customs and customs as old as the
                            Roman law, no longer of any value. Compare Ridley's View of the Law,
                            1634, p, 48.
                        In President Chauncy's Commencement Sermon of 1655, p. 38, what may be
                            called the unattainable ideal of the time is thus expressed: "In cittyes
                            and greater towns schools should teach the Latin and Greek tongues, and
                            Hebrew also, which ought to be had in great account with us for the Old
                            Testament sake."
                        In the platform of Church Discipline adopted in 1648, vi, 6, the school
                            is regarded as "lawful, profitable, & necessary for training of
                            such in good Literature or Learning as may afterward be called forth
                            unto office of Pastor or Teacher in the Church." This hesitating
                            indorsement of the school is backed up by half a dozen texts of
                            Scripture. In re-enacting the school law the Connecticut General Court
                            of 1673 omitted the epithet "old dcluder" before Satan, whose character
                            was well enough known by this time, and in 1692 the diabolical preamble
                            disappeared entirely from the laws of Massachusetts. Compare also the
                            New Hampshire law of 1715. In 1673 Connecticut made it obligatory on
                            county towns to have a grammar school, "for the use of the county,"
                            under penalty (after 1677) of ten pounds. In 1678 Connecticut took the
                            lead of Massachusetts by making it obligatory on every town of thirty
                            families to have an English school. In 1684 the surplus money of the
                            treasury was to go to the grammar schools. All this legislation
                            testifies to the increasing difficulty of maintaining the so-called
                            Latin school. Massachusetts in 1671 increased the fine for neglecting
                            schools to ten pounds, and ordered it paid to the nearest town having a
                            grammar school. To cite no other evidence of the struggle to keep alive
                            grammar schools, the New Hampshire law of 1721, in something like
                            desperation, makes the failure for a single month on the part of a town
                            of one hundred families to provide a Latin school punishable by a fine
                            of twenty pounds, to be collected from the personal estate of the
                            selectmen. This was no doubt in depreciated currency. See Weeden's
                            Economic History of New England on the decline, and in some cases the
                            extinction, of New England Schools.
                        
                            Note 19, page 230.
                        
                        
                            Note 20, page 231.
                        
                        
                        From the Third Report for the Commissioners on Education in Scotland for
                            1867-'68 we learn that schools for Latin, to which were subsequently
                            added "Lecture" schools for English, existed in the chief towns from a
                            very early period. Several of these schools are known to date from the
                            twelfth century. All the chief towns had schools before the beginning of
                            the sixteenth century. "The statute of James IV (1496), which ordains
                            that barons and freeholders who were of substance should put their
                            eldest sons and heirs to the 'scholes fra they be six or nine year of
                            age, and to remain at the Grammar Schools quill they be competentlie
                            founded and have perfite Latine,' is conclusive on this point." These
                            schools were closely connected with the cathedrals, monasteries, and
                            religious establishments; the teachers were ecclesiastics "or in some
                            way connected with the cathedrals and monasteries," and they were
                            sometimes sustained by altarages. "The scholars... were no doubt
                            originally those destined for the church. Gradually, however, sons of
                            gentry and of barons... were sent... to these schools, and from the
                            beginning of the second or more flourishing period of the history all
                            the higher middle classes took advantage of them." It is interesting to
                            find that not only the grammar but the elementary schools existed in
                            Scotland in 1494. In that year the chancellor of the diocese of Glasgow
                            orders that no one without his license should teach "scholares in
                            grammatica aut juvenes in puerilibus." Light is thrown on the condition
                            of Scottish schools just before the Reformation by Andrew Melville's
                            account in McCrie's Life of Knox, 475, 476. The repeated legislation in
                            1616, 1633, 1646, and finally in 1696, shows how slowly the plan was put
                            in force. Report of Commissioners, p. 8. It is worth remarking as
                            illustrating the force of historic continuity, even in time of
                            revolution, that Knox's reader or minister teaching the rudiments in an
                            "upaland" town is only a Protestant reproduction of the older priest in
                            small parishes combining teaching with "praying for the people," such as
                            we have already mentioned above as existing in former ages in England.
                            It would carry us too far afield to note here the rather futile efforts
                            made in the seventeenth century to make Knox's ideal actual in Scotland,
                            or to discuss the Scotch school establishment of 1696, etc. It is
                            sufficient that the plan set forth in 1560 remained a fixed ideal and
                            tradition in Scotland, as the plan of 1647 did in New England. In 1704
                            most of the parishes in Scotland had each a Latin school in name, but
                            the masters were nearly all incompetent. The schools were not free, but,
                            as in many New England 
                                Note 21, page 232.
                            
                             towns, the fees of the scholars eked out
                            the teacher's living. Proposals, etc., in Harleian Miscellany, Park's
                            edition, i, 500 and ff. Some towns, as Polworth in 1652, had no salary
                            for the teacher except his "quarter payments" from the pupils. MSS.
                            Commission, xiv, App. iii, p. 94. Comp. p. 128. As in Scotland, so in
                            Holland, the reformed clergy early sought to strengthen their position
                            by means of schools and a system of catechetical instruction. The plan
                            proposed by the Synod of Dort in 1618, probably with a purpose of
                            extirpating Arminianism as well as Romanism, was to establish schools
                            for teaching "Christian doctrine" "in towns and country places where
                            none have existed." In these schools the children of the poor were to be
                            gratuitously instructed by orthodox teachers, well versed in the
                            catechism. Two whole days in the week were to be given up to teaching
                            the catechism. The resolutions are translated in De Witt's Historical
                            Sketch of the Parochial School System of Holland preceding Dunshee's
                            History of the Dutch Church School in New York. Of the state of the
                            schools of Holland in the seventeenth century a notion may be formed
                            from Schotel's Oud Hollandsch Huisgezin, Hoofdstuk, x, from which I have
                            quoted in a preceding note. Compare also a brief summary in English of
                            Schotel's chapter in Geddes's History of the Administration of John De
                            Witt, 33-37. Some of the mistresses of Dutch bye schools or shop schools
                            (by-scholen, winkelscholen) could not read, but taught the catechism
                            orally, and the school teaching was generally of a primitive sort. But
                            the Synod of Dort had made a declaration resembling that of Knox in
                            favor of schools in every parish, and this unattained Dutch ideal would
                            be likely to have weight also in New England. Rude and imperfect as was
                            the system launched by the Massachusetts law of 1647, it made "writeing
                            and reading," not the catechism, as in Holland, the corner stone of the
                            country school.
                        A letter written by Governor Dudley to the Society for the Propagation of
                            the Gospel in 1701 says of Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Hampshire,
                            and Maine, "I am of opinion that there are no children to be found ten
                            years old who do not read well, nor men of twenty that do not write
                            tolerably." Such a condition probably has never existed among the people
                            of so large a region in any part of America from the Glacial epoch to
                            the present time, and, considering the character of the astute
                            politician who expressed this opinion, one should not take it too
                            seriously. It is said by Upham, the industrious historian of Salem, that
                            very 
                                Note 22, page 235.
                            
                             many people could not read in the ancient
                            capital only nine years earlier, and that schools were in a bad
                            condition.
                        In the Blue Book for 1867 the Report on Burgh and Middle Class Schools in
                            Scotland, from which I have already quoted, referring to the Buke of
                            Discipline, says that by the colleges which Knox proposed for every
                            notable town he intended "grammar schools on the model of those more
                            ancient seminaries in which the 'trivium' or course of three sciences
                            were taught," p. 5. A passage in the same report on p. 7 suggests the
                            source of John Harvard's inspiration: "Cambuslang, where the Rev. John
                            Harrison, minister of the parish, endowed a Grammar School in 1602; with
                            Prestonpans, where a trilingual school for the teaching of Latin, Greek,
                            and Hebrew was founded about the same time by the Rev. John Davidson,
                            who endowed it with all his fortune, including his books." That it was
                            early found difficult to exact Hebrew of the Harvard students is
                            apparent from the extracts from Wigglesworth's diary in 1653, given in
                            Sibley's Harvard Graduates, vol. i, under the name of the diarist.
                        A multitude of illustrations might be cited. "That ye education of youth
                            may be carried on sutably to Christs ends, by ye counsail of the
                            teaching elders in this colony," is the phrase of the New Haven Colony
                            Records in 1660, vol. ii, 373. A very notable entry in the town records
                            of New Haven in 1723 directs that a certain piece of land be used "for
                            the educating of children of Congregational or Presbyterian parents
                            only, and for no other use whatever, forever, hereafter." Atwater's New
                            Haven, 151.
                        Meals were hard to reckon with in the reigns of Elizabeth and James. It
                            seems clear that most people of position in Elizabeth's reign ate their
                            first meal at about noon. Harrison, in Holinshed, i, 287, says:
                            "Heretofore there hath bene much more time spent in eating and drinking
                            than commonlie is in these daies, for whereas of old we had breakfasts
                            in the forenoone, beverages or nuntions after dinner, and thereto reare
                            suppers generallie when it was time to go to rest.... Now these od
                            repasts thanked be God are verie well left, and ech one in a maner,
                            (except here and there some yoong hungrie stomach that cannot fast till
                            dinner time) contentes himself with dinner and supper onelie."
                        In 1555 the burgh school in Aberdeen began at seven o'clock, according to
                            the report on Burgh and Middle Class Schools in Scotland. There was an
                            intermission of an hour at nine, "when all 
                                Note 23, page 235.
                            
                            
                                Note 24, page 237.
                            
                            
                                Note 25, page 240.
                            
                            
                                Note 26, page 240.
                            
                             were directed to hasten to breakfast."
                            The school was then resumed from ten to twelve, and again from two to
                            six. But most English schools were held unbrokenly from six to eleven
                            and from one to six, and even at a later period, as we may infer from
                            Brinsley. In another Scottish school, that at Elgin in 1649, work began
                            at six and continued till six, with two hours' intermissionone for
                            breakfast and one for dinner. Report as above, p. 15. I can find no
                            trace in later schools of the bever taken in the schoolroom, which must
                            have been the custom in the reign of Henry VIII. The statutes of St.
                            Paul's School, as drawn by Colet, say: "Also I will they bring no meate
                            nor drinke, nor bottel, nor use in the school no breakfasts, nor
                            drinkings in the tyme of learnynge in no wise," etc. Knight's Life of
                            Colet, 308. The hours of St. Paul's School were from seven to eleven and
                            from one to five. This, with the difference between Aberdeen in 1553 and
                            Elgin in 1649, as given above, and some other facts I have noted, cause
                            me to suspect that the longest hours came in only with the new zeal of
                            the Reformation period. But Colet's statutes are very severe in refusal
                            of holidays, etc. "Yf the master grantith any remedyes he shall forfeit
                            xl s. totiens quotiens," etc. The holy days of the Church were
                            interruption enough in Colet's time. As late as 1763 I find in Justin
                            Forward's diary that he visited Hatfield's school, and advised a
                            "vacancy," which was granted. Manuscript in my possession.
                        John Brinsley was a clergyman of Puritan tendencies, and a brother-in-law
                            to the famous Bishop Hall. He has been less cited than his forerunners
                            Ascham or Mulcaster, but he appears to have had practical ideas on the
                            subject of school management in advance of both, and his books are most
                            instructive to the student of the history of education, especially his
                            Ludus Literarius and his Consolations for Our Grammar Schooles. The
                            latter has a special interest for us, because it was written to promote
                            the welfare of the schools projected for Virginia, as well as those in
                            Ireland and Wales. It was submitted to the Virginia Company for approval
                            before its publication. Among the reforms advocated by Brinsley were a
                            somewhat later hour of beginning schools, a recess for breakfast in the
                            middle of the forenoon, and another in the middle of the afternoon, and
                            a large attention to the teaching of English.
                        The passage in Brinsley's Consolations, p. 43, is suggestive: "When our
                            scholars coming to man's estate shall cvrse vs for 
                                Note 27, page 242.
                            
                            
                                Note 28, page 244.
                            
                             that by our blowes they were made dunses
                            or deafe... or to hate all learning." "They think themselves the best
                            schoolmasters when they teach little and beat much," says Becon. He says
                            one might think them "vexed with some infernal fury." It should be
                            remembered, in mitigation of censure on the schoolmasters, that in a
                            civilization like that of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries,
                            discipline without corporal punishment would have been more difficult
                            than in our later time. The pupils regarded their master as a natural
                            enemy. This was hit off by a Dutch schoolmaster of that time, whose sign
                            before his door showed a portrait of himself sitting in the midst of his
                            uproarious and unruly scholars with a crown on his head and this legend
                            be low: "Het gekroonde hoofd-sweer" (The crowned headache). Schotel's
                            Oud Hollandsch Huisgezin, 76. From this antagonism came the practice of
                            "barring out," or, as it was called in this country, "turning the master
                            out." There was an early instance of this turning out at William and
                            Mary, in which the boys received encouragement from Governor Nicholson
                            himself, and fired blank cartridges at Dr. Blair, the president. This
                            custom seems to have died in England only in the nineteenth century. It
                            lingered long enough in this country for the present writer to have
                            partaken of a "treat" of apples served by one master to buy exemption
                            from it, and to have had the bitter experience when about twelve years
                            old of leading in an actual conflict of the kind, when the resolute
                            master with stalwart help from without broke down the door casing and
                            carried the house by storm. Addison at the same age was more successful
                            at Litchfield in an enterprise of the kind, according to Dr. Johnson.
                            The practice was very common in the seventeenth century. See the
                            Gentleman's Magazine of 1828, part ii, pp. 402-408. The custom of
                            "taking the school" was set down as an old one in Aberdeen in 1568, when
                            the boys secured three clays of vacation. In 1604 the boys again "took
                            the school" with guns and other weapons, and foraged for "puir folke's
                            geir," such as "geisse, foullis, and ultheris vivaris." Burgh Records of
                            Aberdeen, xxviii.
                        Mulcaster, like his predecessor Ascham, was an admirer of the classical
                            attainments of Queen Elizabeth, and so inclined to advise a higher
                            education for women than was customary. But tradition was against him.
                            "I set not yong maidens to publike grammar Schooles," he says, "a thing
                            not used in my countrie, I send them not to the vniversities, having no
                            president thereof in my countrie." He says that maidens "taught to read
                            and write, 
                                Note 29, page 244.
                            
                             to sing and play, to speak daily spoken
                            tongues, and of best reputations in our times" compared well with men.
                            Positions, 166. The Puritans naturally regarded Elizabeth's rule with
                            disfavor, and her masculine acquirements seemed to them rather
                            unscriptural. Anne Bradstreet was an example, however, of an educated
                            woman in New England, though a reluctant Puritan, and An Cotton of a
                            cultivated woman in Virginia. "For the first fifty years after the
                            settlement very little is on record in respect to schools, and from the
                            numerous instances of persons of the second generation who could not
                            write their names, it is evident that education was at a low ebb. Female
                            instruction in particular must have been greatly neglected, when the
                            daughters of men who occupied important offices in the town and church
                            were obliged to make a mark for their signature. Yet the business of
                            teaching was then chiefly performed by women.... Every quarter of the
                            town had its mistress, who taught children to behave, to ply the needle
                            through all the mysteries of hemming, overhand stitching, and darning up
                            to the sampler, and to read from A B C through the spelling book to the
                            psalter. Children were taught to be mannered and pay respect to their
                            elders, especially to dignitaries. In the street they stood aside when
                            they met any respectable person or stranger, and saluted him with a bow
                            or courtesy, stopping modestly until he had passed. This was called
                            'making their manners.'" Miss Caulkin's History of New London, 395.
                            "Children who did not attend school were taught to read at home, and
                            nearly all could read, females as well as males. Writing was considered
                            much less important, and it was not judged necessary that females in
                            common life should learn to write." Judd's History of Hadley, 64.
                            Compare Bailey's Andover, 13, footnote. Judd adds that girls were not
                            permitted to attend public schools in Boston until 1790, and that the
                            permission was not granted in Northampton until 1802. Mrs. Grant says
                            that in Albany women could usually read in Dutch the Bible and a few
                            Calvinistic tracts, but not English in 1704. Memoirs of an American
                            Lady, 1, 33. Needlework was added to this. She adds with unnecessary
                            detail, "This confined education prevented elegance." In Philadelphia in
                            1722 "flourishing on muslin and embroidering petticoats" was taught to
                            young ladies along with French.
                        D'Ewes complains of the morals of the university: "Swearing, drinking,
                            rioting, and hatred of all piety... did abound... generally in the
                            university... so as I was fain to live almost 
                                Note 30, page 247.
                            
                             a recluses life." It is characteristic of
                            the age that D'Ewes finds consolation in reflecting that the religious
                            opinions of his licentious, riotous, and impious fellow-scholars were
                            uncorrupted by "Anabaptisticall or Pelagian heresies," and that there
                            was no bowing toward the altar. Autobiography, i, 141. Libertines and
                            blackguards in abundance, but no Baptists, Arminians, or High-churchmen,
                            thank God !
                        The charter of William and Mary College in English is recorded in a
                            beautiful contemporary handwriting in the manuscript book of Virginia
                            Instructions, in the Library of Congress. It is printed with Hartwell,
                            Blair, and Chilton's account of Virginia, and the copy of the latter in
                            the Library of Congress is annotated by some critic, who notes slight
                            variations in the sense of the English version of the charter from the
                            Latin original. The phrase "studium generale "has a sense hardly
                            appreciated by those who copied it from the ancient charter for William
                            and Mary. See Heinrich Denifle, Die Universitten des Mittelalters bis
                            1400, 1-29, for an exhaustive study of this word. On page 15 he says:
                            "Der Dominicaner Ricoldus, de Montecrucis schreibt an der Wende des 13
                            and 14 Jhs. in seinem Werke gegen den Alchoran, er sei zu den Sarazenen
                            nach Bagdad gereist, 'ubi generale ipsorum sollempne habeter studium.'
                            Wie im Occident der Ausdruck studium generale im Sinne von Lehren
                            Austalt fr die studierenden der Christenheit genommen wurde, So wendete
                            der Dominicaner derselben fr das Hauptstudiurn der Sarazenen an."
                            Blair's instructions from the General Assembly read: "You shall make it
                            your business to peruse the best Charters in England... having Regard
                            alwaies to the Constitutions of this Government." P. R. O. Am. and W.
                            Ind. Bundle 637.
                        
                            Note 31, page 250.
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER THE SIXTH.
                    LAND AND LABOR IN TILE EARLY COLONIES.
                    
                        I.
                        ENGLISHMEN were accustomed to a land system the most
                            intricate the world has ever seen. The feudal law in its passing had
                            left behind a mass of technicalities, and the evasions of that law had
                            given birth to a multitude of fictions. In many cases instruments of
                            conveyance were ostensibly instruments to do something else, and they
                            were often not registered, but kept secret. There was a jargon of
                            land-law terms mastered by conveyancers, that made it sometimes
                            difficult to transfer land. In the century preceding colonization there
                            came in the custom of piling up whole vocabularies of conveyance in one
                            deed, with endless tediousness of repetition of clauses and provisos.
                            The statutes were stuffed at the same time until the reader "was made
                            giddy by a continual recurrence of the same form of words in the same
                            endless period." Law came into disrepute as something hardly
                            comprehensible, and a source of endless entanglements to the lay mind.
                            Lawyers were forbidden in the colonial courts. In Virginia mercenary
                            lawyersthat is, lawyers who took feeswere almost wholly forbidden until
                            1658, when they were totally ejected.
                        
                            CHAP. VI.
                        
                        
                            Direct ownership of the soil.
                        
                        
                            Reeves's Hist. of Law, iv, 506-508.
                        
                        
                            Reeves, iv, 560.
                        
                        
                            Note 1.
                        
                        
                            Note 2.
                        
                        
                        The New England colonies had a like prejudice, and would not suffer a
                            single lawyer to becloud the acts of the early courts. When
                            Massachusetts came to framing a working Constitution in 1641 there was a
                            rivalry between Ward and Winthrop, educated as lawyers, and Cotton, who
                            wished to proceed on a theological basis. The lawyers triumphed, but
                            they did so by holding to the severe simplicity of old English law. The
                            laws were not even called laws, but liberties; a man had the liberty of
                            being hanged in certain cases. Somebody saw the absurdity, and appended
                            a note explaining that liberty meant law, and the experiment of using
                            this term for laws was not again tried in Massachusetts. The Dutch had
                            but one lawyer among them, and they pretended to be unwilling to give
                            either side in a case the exclusive benefit of his skill. They refused
                            him permission to practice. Thus it came to pass that the earliest laws
                            were simple and direct. Decisions were based on common sense and the
                            merits of the case, as seen by the magistrate. There were other forces
                            that held land laws to simplicity. There was little land in America that
                            had come through feudal tenure. Even the king as a source of title did
                            not usually appear in the deed. In the later seventeenth century lawyers
                            and conveyancers began to be sought after; their services could no
                            longer be dispensed with. The colonial laws and deeds after the
                            Restoration became somewhat more intricate, and affected the English in
                            their style. But the habit of passing 
                                CHAP. VI.
                            
                             land easily had become fixed, and though
                            deeds might take on English forms and abound in repetitions, landholding
                            remained substantially the same, the 'simple and direct ownership of the
                            soil.
                    
                    
                        II.
                        There was one trait of land law that had survived from the middle
                            agesthat had survived apparently from nobody knows what remote
                            antiquity. It made so dry a matter as the transfer of land picturesque
                            and dramatic. This was called livery of seizinthe delivery of
                            possession. The seller stood on the tract to be conveyed and taking a
                            bit of turf from the land, and, if there were trees, plucking a twig and
                            thrusting it into the turf, passed it into the hands of the buyer. The
                            custom was capable of many variations. Judge Sewall, of Boston, received
                            seizin of six hundred acres of forest by "turf, twig, and splinter," as
                            if to embrace all the possibilities of timber land. In the history of
                            Salem it is recorded that John Rush took a twig from a growing tree and
                            a bit of green turf and said, "Here, son Thomas, I do before these two
                            men give you possession of this land by turffe and twigg." In turning
                            over the primitive records in Virginia one finds that "livery and sesen
                            was made of a turffe of the earth of the within written land." In other
                            cases "twigg and turff" marks another form. Sometimes the livery is
                            marked by a different form and personal estate is 
                                Livery of seizin.
                            
                            
                                Note 3.
                            
                            
                                H. B. Adams, Cape Ann and Salem, 78.
                            
                            
                                MS. York Records, 1645.
                            
                            
                                Ibid., 1641.
                            
                             included. One Colonel Henry Browne,
                            wishing to give his whole estate for the benefit of his wife and
                            creditors, delivers to them "one silver spoone, part of premises as a
                            voucher to lead to intent, purport," etc. When a house was to be
                            delivered the seller took hold of the ring of the house door and
                            formally gave it into the hands of the new owner. The ground with its
                            appurtenances was thus handed over in a manner suitable to illiterate
                            times and restricted territories. But land in a new country became an
                            article of frequent merchandise. Tracts of wilderness, remote and
                            sometimes unsurveyed, could not be given by livery of seizin. In
                            Maryland the mere certificatethe warrant entitling the holder to take up
                            landcame presently to be passed about as current money. And, indeed, the
                            custom of livery of seizin probably went out of use in America more
                            rapidly than in England. In Virginia, the most conservative of the
                            colonies, it was still somewhat in vogue in 1748, when it is recognized
                            in a statute. Perhaps this was a mark of oncoming decrepitude. For a
                            thousand years and more it had existed without legislation; when it
                            became necessary to mention it in statute law the usage had passed its
                            prime. In England to-day the seller often passes a ferule into the hands
                            of the buyer of land without leaving the court room. So does the faint
                            shadow of ancient custom stretch itself across modern life, growing more
                            attenuated until at length it vanishes, no one perceiving where it left
                            its last trace.
                        
                            Surrey, Va., MS. Records, 1652.
                        
                        
                            Note 4.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        III.
                        One mode of holding land, the oldest known to the English world, dating
                            far back of the feudal system, seems very curious to modern eyes. It did
                            not much attract the attention of lawyers in its time. Questions
                            regarding it were settled almost wholly in the petty court of manor or
                            township, and the great jurists had no call to discuss it. As a general
                            rule it was a subordinate kind of land-holding. The town community was
                            tenant, as a whole, to the owner of the manor. The manor ownership might
                            be litigated, might be taken away by violence, but the town held of the
                            lord of the manor, whoever he might be, from time to which the memory of
                            man runs not. If the ownership of the land came into question, it was as
                            a whole. In this way it escaped almost entirely the notice of the land
                            courts and of the older writers on the law of land. But as it went out
                            of existence the township community began to attract the attention of
                            the learned. Who should have the commons? What rights had the lord of
                            the manor and the people under new conditions? And then inquiries were
                            made by the curious into the origin of the commune, and presently a
                            great literature has grown up about it mostly in a lifetime. Efforts
                            have been made to connect it with similar forms in other countries. The
                            great fact coming out in all this discussion is that the town commune
                            was very primitive. It can be traced in 
                                Communal holding primitive.
                            
                             England back to the fifth century. It
                            disappears in the prehistoric past in its full vigor. A considerable
                            portion of the surface of England was cultivated in this way in the
                            seventeenth century, and it shows how far human development can be
                            carried without breaking an ancient shell of society.
                    
                    
                        IV.
                        What was this village commune? Setting aside the disputed points in its
                            ancient historywhether the commune was a combination at first of serfs,
                            or whether it was a free markit seems probable that it once held all its
                            territory in common, and that at the earliest period the arable land was
                            allotted annually. The advancement of civilization relaxed the severity
                            of this communism. Little patches were dealt out permanently to
                            residents, or at least to shareholders, but the division of land
                            retained marks of the older order. The land of a single owner was
                            scattered over the lands of the town apparently as last divided. The
                            meadow, the pasture, the mast land, and the woodland remained an
                            undivided common when William Marshall began the study of it in the
                            latter part of the eighteenth century. The fences and gates were kept up
                            by the proportionate care of the several cultivators, and the rents of
                            the lord were paid by the "town" as a whole. In New England, where there
                            was no lord, a town registry was established, and the town held the
                            disposal of land in 
                                The village commune.
                            
                            
                                Note 5.
                            
                             its own hands. "The furlongs"that is, the
                            "furrowlongs"were held by each household, were fenced in a common field,
                            and often for the first years of settlement were held undivided and
                            allotted year by year. Each person had his "homelot right" and "acre
                            right" in the undivided meadow, forest, and upland. These were at first
                            sold as a unit, and were termed "an accommodation." The times of
                            planting and of turning in of cattle were sometimes regulated in "field
                            meetings" or "side meetings," after the immemorial usage of the English
                            township. The common fields were in primitive towns but three. Two were
                            in different sorts of grain, the third was taking its year of rest as a
                            sheep and cow pasture. Each cultivator had to raise the crop decided on
                            by the majority in the side meeting or field meeting. It was an animated
                            scene in a common field when all the commune was planting or harvesting.
                            There were New England towns that went back to the original norm of the
                            town, and cultivated the land by dividing it annually until the town
                            should fill up. Then when the town was fuller, they divided their arable
                            land, giving each an equal chance. Society was prone to fall apart in a
                            new country. The town community held it together in common
                        helpfulness.
                    
                    
                        V.
                        Agricultural villages were yet flourishing in England in the seventeenth
                            century. Very many 
                                Note 6.
                            
                            
                                The commune in England.
                            
                             had gone down before the cupidity of
                            sheep-raising landlords, but the greater part were yet in full vigor
                            under one and another shelter. Some seem to have kept a stiff proportion
                            of their ancient rights. We find ducking stool and pillory in one rustic
                            town; in Queen Mary's days there remained a prison and gallows in
                            another. Persons seeking justice outside the borough for any matter
                            occurring in the borough should lose their entire freedomthat is, their
                            right of property in the community. Even in Connecticut one finds the
                            right to appeal to higher courts was hampered and jealously watched. In
                            England the townships in James I's time looked to overlords for
                            protection. Some were resolutely independent.
                    
                    
                        VI.
                        That the New-Englanders were largely born to the commune is evident. They
                            were mostly farmers, and farmers in that time were frequently found in
                            village communes. Perhaps the small farmer was more susceptible to
                            Puritanism; perhaps the condition of the towns was favorable to the
                            spread of Puritanism. Threatened with inclosure of their "wastes"their
                            mast land, their woodland, and their meadowthese villagers embraced the
                            religion of the discontented. In New England the origin of the commune
                            was soon forgotten. In the time of the Revolution we find John Adams
                            proposing to inquire who among the 
                                Gomme, English Village Communities, 163.
                            
                            
                                Ibid., 77.
                            
                            
                                Ibid., 79.
                            
                            
                                The commune in America.
                            
                            
                                Note 7.
                            
                             fathers of Massachusetts suggested this
                            mode of settlement. He had no notion of its English origin. From the
                            first, Plymouth was organized somewhat on the communal model. Salem,
                            after trying independent holdings awhile, adopted the same plan. The
                            great migration of Winthrop seems to have brought along with it the plan
                            of the village community as the very best one on which to settle Puritan
                            churches and congregations. If it was predetermined, it was a
                            masterstroke of policy; but whether it was a matter of forethought or
                            not, the townsmen must many of them have been acquainted with it. Nearly
                            the whole of New England adopted the same plan. From I know not how far
                            east clear down the coast to Connecticut and Long Island, and down the
                            Jersey coast to Delaware, the people organized in this way. One never
                            hears any other plan proposed. The phraseology of the town community was
                            theirs. The swineherd or hogreeve went through the town blowing an early
                            morning horn, the cowherd, the goatherd, the gooseherd, the shepherd
                            were all present, as needed in various New England towns. There were
                            water bailiffs, there were drummers to call people to meeting and to
                            make announcements, there were overseers of chimneys and of chimney
                            sweepers, perambulators, cullers of staves and corders of wood,
                            firewards and haywards or hedgewards, and all the half a hundred other
                            occasional officers of the town. Their names passed easily from one to
                                 another, like coins worn smooth. One
                            thing they missedit was the lord and his rents. But when a Connecticut
                            town moved to Newark they easily spoke of the quitrents as the lord's
                            half-penny. It would have been the lord's penny in England.
                    
                    
                        VII.
                        The land was distributed with more or less equality in some towns and
                            with more or less inequality in others. The houses stood rather
                            compactly about the meeting-house. Every man had his home lot, his share
                            in the cultivated field, his right to feed his cows in the common
                            pasture and in common fields when crops were off, and so on, duly
                            awarded him. A part of the fence or a gate, a pair of bars or "a lift"
                            was assigned to him to keep up. The town owned the realty and divided it
                            according to its by-laws and its own good pleasure. There were town cows
                            sometimes, there was always a town hull, and a town horse was kept at
                            Salem. Town sheep were not uncommon; a herd of two thousand paid all the
                            corporate expenses of a certain town in Connecticut. The town sometimes
                            kept packs of dogs to hunt wolves with. The tradespeople who wished to
                            settle within the bounds of the town made bargains with the "selectmen"
                            or others having charge of "the prudentials of the town" for a monopoly.
                            Its mill sites and other privileges were disposed of in this way, the
                            townspeople agreeing 
                                Note 8.
                            
                            
                                Distribution of land.
                            
                            
                                Note 9.
                            
                            
                                Conn. Rec., i, 30.
                            
                             to help build the mill; to a blacksmith
                            they gave a monopoly. The ideas prevailing were rustic; we read of one
                            village which had reached a transition stage and which was alarmed lest
                            the community should be "ruinated" by the influx of people. It is to be
                            remembered that no New-Englander, unless from choice, was solitary. He
                            was always a member of a community and therefore civilized. Thus grew
                            New England.
                    
                    
                        VIII.
                        The word town underwent a change in New England, or at least a provincial
                            sense became the main sense of the word. It did not mean at first a
                            town, but a group of farmers engaged in agriculture on a particular
                            plan. The New England village was almost precisely the same at the
                            outset as the English farming community. But it was in a new country
                            where there is a chance to change, where change is inevitable. In the
                            first place, the township in Massachusetts took on governmental
                            functions. It became the political unit; this was its capital change.
                            Deputies were elected to the Legislature from the "towns," large and
                            small. The counties sank into insignificane, the towns were the sources
                            of power. In the next place, the town boundary was also the boundary of
                            the parish. The parish in Massachusetts was of primary importance. And,
                            in the third place, the rulers, finding themselves freed from some of
                            the cares of 
                                Note 10.
                            
                            
                                Political importance of the town.
                            
                             government by the autonomy of the towns,
                            made even the farms attachments to the several towns. The town meeting,
                            from being a side meeting to assign a date for the putting in and out of
                            cows, became a place where the very sources of political power lay. The
                            leading magistrates were outvoted by the representatives of the towns
                            over and over. This was unexpected in a day when the magistrate was
                            reverenced as the appointed of the Lord. The magistrates offered strong
                            resistance, but the stronger resistance of the commons would not down.
                            Efforts were made to overrule the lower House, but the deputies, having
                            got the bit in their teeth, carried things their own way, and then the
                            government fell into the hands of the towns, or rather, as has been
                            said, into the hands of the churches, whose members did all the
                        voting.
                    
                    
                        IX.
                        The custom of granting farms in the first generation to prominent
                            citizens in return for the assistance given in colony planting was
                            discontinued. In the rivalry between independent towns and farms the
                            towns by natural selection won the day. The prominent than, a little
                            more eminent than the others, was content to take a larger share in the
                            town instead of a separate grant. After the first generation there were
                            fewer men of distinction engaged in planting towns, and hence fewer
                            occasions for special 
                                Society in the South.
                            
                             grants. The New-Englander became
                            exceedingly fond of the town system; he did not think of doing without
                            it. Everywhere that New-Englanders went in the first and later
                            generations the town system went with them. But it did not elsewhere
                            acquire any such prominence as in Massachusetts and Connecticut. There
                            were no political privileges, and the church was not of the prevailing
                            order. Long Island, New Jersey, and certain regions in the Delaware Bay
                            all had the inevitable town plan. One or two churches moved away into
                            South Carolina and Georgia, where their village plan was lost in the
                            larger agriculture of the South. If we had the evidence that is perhaps
                            lost, we should find that the township or village community could be
                            found germinating in the Southern colonies. Such a sub-colony as that of
                            Barkly or Berkley, to which an "incorporation by some vsuall or fit
                            name" was promised, must have contemplated common lands and other
                            elements of the commune. That and its rustic ally the hundred, and its
                            civic type the borough, were the form in which nearly all the local
                            government of England was cast. But nearly all the men of Barkly
                            perished at the hands of the Indians or otherwise. Indian massacres, the
                            growth of a staple demanding much land, and the consequent rapid
                            development of territorial greed, soon destroyed every vestige of the
                            town in Virginia. A "hundred" in 1660 proved that a "commons" had been
                            granted to it in 1631. If we look to Maryland it is hard 
                                Note 11.
                            
                            
                                Note 12.
                            
                            
                                Smith of Nibley MSS., 57.
                            
                            
                                Note 13.
                            
                             to make out whether manors with "courts
                            leet" established there very early had jurisdiction of commons, as is
                            probable from the usual organization of a manor. But the circumstances
                            were most unfavorable to the community; the great staple of tobacco set
                            people's teeth on edge to become rich out of it. Cultivation almost from
                            the start began to change its character. Great and greater shiploads of
                            bond servants, free-willers, kids, and convicts were unloaded in
                            Virginia and Maryland and sold for four years' service. For half a
                            century or more large estates with white bond servants were the rule. In
                            1670 there were three times as many white bond servants as blacks in
                            Virginia. Within ten or fifteen years after that, as the century drew to
                            a close, Virginia ceased to buy white servants in any numbers, and
                            plantations worked by black servants became the rule.
                    
                    
                        X.
                        A very usual method of holding land in England was by the manorial
                            system. The manors were entailed to the eldest son or other heir of the
                            manor lord. But parts of these manors were village communities from the
                            most ancient times. In New England they made village communities without
                            any lord of the manor, and quitrents were left out of the count. The
                            granting of farms quite independent of the town contemplated another
                            English mode of landholding. But just as agricultural 
                                Johnson's Old Md. Manors. Kilty's Landholder's Assistant, ch.
                                v.
                            
                            
                                De Vries and Geo. Donne's MS. Bodleian Library.
                            
                            
                                Contrast between the North and South.
                            
                             villages were crowded out in Virginia, so
                            were independent farms driven to the wall in the Northeast. An order
                            went forth that farms should belong to the towns in which they were
                            situated. It was inconvenient to have them separate. The Church was the
                            drilling ground to keep the people strictly in line with advanced
                            Protestantism. The farmer could have no rights in common fields, his
                            cattle were foreign to the pasture, his pigs had no right to pick up
                            nuts from the common woodland, he had no acre rights when dividends were
                            made, but he must attend the town church and pay the dues levied upon
                            him for the clergy and other town burdens, and all burdens were put
                            directly on the town. Individuals were unknown, the town was the
                            taxpayer and the landowner. Sometimes, as at Salem, the town bought out
                            a man's holdings, his "accommodation," exchanging therefor a farmstead
                            carved out of the great unappropriated wilderness. But the favorite
                            method of settling land came to be in a colony or town. By this means
                            the ecclesiastical power was greatly augmented. The minister was usually
                            the one educated man in the parish. He knew some Latin and Greek, and he
                            had even a smattering of Hebrew. He was educated in what was the only
                            branch of knowledge affected by minister or laymantheology. His
                            dominance over the unlettered was tolerably complete. On the other hand,
                            the Southern planter, with long stretches of woodland between him and
                            his neighbors, could  cultivate his wide
                            fields in almost entire independence; his code of morals even was mostly
                            his own, but his public interests were as extensive as his county or his
                            province. This state of society begot self-reliance, and produced more
                            leading statesmen than the other; but the people lacked the New England
                            cohesion and susceptibility to organization, without which the
                            statesmanship of the Revolution would have been vain. The Southerner,
                            from his isolation and from other causes, became hospitable, eager for
                            society, and in general spontaneously friendly and generous; the New
                            England people became close-fisted and shrewd in trade; it is a trait of
                            village life. But the benevolence of New England was more effective than
                            that of the South, because it was organized and systematic. The village
                            life of the extreme North trained the people to trade, and led to
                            commercial development, and it made popular education possible. The sons
                            of the great planters at the South were averse to commerce; they were
                            also the most liberally educated and polished in manners of all the
                            colonists; but the scattered common people could have few schools, and
                            were generally rude and ignorant, even when compared with the lower
                            class of New-Englanders, who stood a chance of getting some rough
                            schooling, besides a certain education from the meeting-house and the
                            ever-recurring town debates.
                        
                            CHAP. VI.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        XI
                        A stranger might in old New England find a constable at the door some
                            morning to warn him to leave. He was not expected to go, but his
                            landlord must give security that he would not be chargeable, or at least
                            the town was quit of him. People attracted by the superior medical skill
                            of Boston physicians were thus warned. St. Clement's Manor, in Maryland,
                            at its Court Leet, orders John Mansell "to remove his inmate or give
                            security." The towns had done so from the most remote times. Even in the
                            Salic law, a thousand years before, no person was suffered to remove
                            from one villa to another. A trace of this is found in the Connecticut
                            law that "noe Inhabitant shall have power to make sale of his
                            accorodation of house and lands vntil he have first propounded the sale
                            thereof to the Towne... and they refuse to accept of the sale tendered."
                            The town community is dead in New England, though its methods of
                            government remain, and even in the West and South there are traces of it
                            in the language. In the old common field, strips were allotted from year
                            to year, but one piece of land belonged to nobody. It was called "Jack's
                            Land." Here the plowman left his plow, his hoe, his seed to the
                            hospitality of an undefined somebody called Jack. The author of
                            "Wonderworking Providence," a New England captain, calls Ireland "Jack's
                            Land." It was nobody's country; one man and one party after another
                            might take 
                                Strangers forbidden.
                            
                            
                                Old Md. Manors, 15.
                            
                            
                                Seebohm, The Salic Law, 359, 360.
                            
                            
                                Rogers, Work and Wages, 107.
                            
                            
                                I Conn. Rec.,351, 1660.
                            
                             possession. Curiously enough, the word
                            survives in America in an old game, played on a slate, where all drawn
                            games are credited to "Jack," and are marked in a division called
                            "Jack's Land." It is the very last attenuated ghost of the ideas of the
                            ancient commune.
                    
                    
                        XII.
                        In Virginia and the South the parish vestry took the place of the
                            township in New England. Virginia was the Southern model as
                            Massachusetts was the Northern. In the extant parish records of Virginia
                            the vestry makes a contract for building a church, ordains a referendum
                            for locating a church, and employs and dismisses a minister, builds a
                            paling fence about the church, and "distreynes" for tithes. The vestry
                            also opens roads, appoints over-seers of roads and holds them to
                            account, levies fines for bastardy and concubinage and for disorder in
                            church, orders the land processioned, relieves the poor, binds out
                            "orphants," appoints side men or collectors, and objects to the
                            admission of non-residents lest they be chargeable. The parish also in
                            one case elects a "select vestrye" from each of three precincts. In 1694
                            Petsoe Parish divides itself into eight precincts for the processioning
                            of land. Here is nearly everything that was done by the New England town
                            transacted by the vestry of a Virginia parish. The parish in Virginia
                            stretched farusually over an entire 
                                Note 14.
                            
                            
                                The Virginia parish.
                            
                            
                                MS. Records of various parishes, in Fairfax Seminary.
                            
                            
                                Note 15.
                            
                            
                                Accomac Records, 1632.
                            
                            
                                Records of Petsoe Parish, in Fairfax Seminary
                            
                             county; in New England it was restricted
                            to a town.
                        The processioning of land was observed by the Virginians between Easter
                            and Whitsunday. They made formal processions about the bounds of their
                            several tracts, renewing the marks in the line trees. When a division
                            line had been thus marked three times it was no longer open to question.
                            In Massachusetts, Connecticut, and Long Island the townships, as
                            landholders, were "to go the rounds "at regular intervals. Each
                            individual owner of plowland and mowland within the town must trace his
                            boundary every winter if his adjacent neighbor exacted it. The colonists
                            were thus following a custom whose origin was lost in the obscurity
                            before written records.
                    
                    
                        XIII.
                        The leadership of the great families was sustained in New York and in the
                            colonies south of Pennsylvania by primogeniturethe prerogative of the
                            eldest son to inherit the landed estate in case the father left no will.
                            Custom followed the law, and fathers who willed their property usually
                            left most or all of the land to the eldest son, as belonging to him by
                            prescriptive right. To primogeniture the aristocratic colonies added the
                            dead hand of entail, by which the land was sent down for generations in
                            the line of the eldest male. Even a clumsy fiction, called in law
                            "common 
                                Inheritance
                            
                             recovery," by which the entail might be
                            broken in England, was forbidden by statute in Virginia, and was not
                            accounted applicable to the other colonies.
                        The Pilgrims at Plymouth and the Massachusetts Puritans had belonged to
                            that politico-religious party in England which sought the abolition of
                            certain old abuses. As early as 1636 Plymouth enacted that land should
                            be held after "the laudable custom, tenure, and hold of the manor of
                            East Greenwich "that is, in an ancient Saxon way preserved at the coming
                            of William the Conqueror by the county of Kent. One characteristic of
                            this tenure was that it divided the lands equally among the sons in case
                            there was no will. Massachusetts, which expressly abolished many of the
                            worst features of feudal tenure, by name, gave to the eldest son a
                            double portion according to the Mosaic code, but divided the rest among
                            daughters as well as sons. This system prevailed throughout New England.
                            Primogeniture had come to be esteemed a natural right, and the
                            Massachusetts leaders felt obliged more than once to defend themselves
                            from the charge of having "denied the right of the eldest son." They
                            answered by showing the comparative insignificance of land in a new
                            country, and took refuge behind the example of Moses. Pennsylvania took
                            the same middle course of sheltering innovation under the law of Moses
                            by giving the eldest son a double portion. The laws of some of the
                            colonies made the 
                                Plymouth Records.
                            
                             land liable, to a greater or less extent,
                            with personal estate for the debts of the deceased, which robbed the
                            eldest of a part of his "insolent prerogative"; but it was not until the
                            shock of the Revolution that primogeniture and entail were swept away,
                            under the leadership of Jefferson and others. But land was so abundant
                            that a thrifty younger son often earned in a lifetime a better portion
                            than his elder brother. The eldest son's double portion in New England
                            survived the Revolution for some years. A very ancient mode of
                            inheritance prevailed in some English boroughs, called among lawyers
                            "borough English." By this custom the lands descended to the youngest
                            son. It found no lodgment in the laws of the colonies, so far as I know;
                            but in New Hampshire it was a widespread custom to leave the homestead
                            to the youngest, who remained at home and cared for the old age of his
                            parents. This reasonable form of the custom of "ultimogeniture" lingers
                            yet in certain parts of the country, as, for example, in some of the
                            northern counties of New York. The other custom of a widow inheriting a
                            third of her husband's estate is even more widely prevalent, and is a
                            matter of law in most of the States.
                    
                    
                        XIV.
                        The problem of England in the days of James I was how to be rid of its
                            poor. They had, many of them, been turned out of a living by the
                            inclosure 
                                Note 16.
                            
                            
                                Belknap's New Hampshire.
                            
                            
                                Serfdom and apprenticeship.
                            
                             of commons in the mania for sheep
                            husbandry, and some of them had had the villages pulled down about their
                            ears. They were sent a-wandering, living as they could live by hook or
                            by crook. Necessity made many of them rogues, and the desire to have
                            done with rogues was so intense that England hanged its thieves out of
                            hand. Henry VIII thought to be rid of such vermin of society, and he
                            hanged, if we may believe Harrison, two-and-seventy thousand, including
                            "great theeves, pettie theeves and roges." In Elizabeth's reign three or
                            four hundred felons were eaten up annually by the gallows, and James I
                            merrily carried on the work of extermination; one reads of "twenty
                            hanged up at a clap," in one place. But the vagabonds did not grow
                            fewer.
                        Recent serfdom had left its mark on the poor man. He had been freed, not
                            from benevolence, nor from any motive having regard to the personality
                            of the serf. Wickliffe and others had taught that it was meritorious to
                            free a man from bondage who was a Christianthat is, who had been
                            baptized. This scruple fitted to the churchly conscience of the age; it
                            grew more and more exigeant. "We think it pious and meritorious with God
                            to make certain persons absolutely free from the yoke of servitude who
                            are at present under villenage to us," said Henry VIII. Elizabeth and
                            James, less scrupulous on this point, proposed to sell to those whose
                            blood was tainted with slavery the privileges of freedom. It was not
                            till the 
                                Note 17.
                            
                            
                                Harrison in Holinshed, i, 314.
                            
                            
                                Note 18.
                            
                             eighteenth century had dawned that
                            Chamberlayne's State of England, an annual publication, could drop its
                            set phrase, "but few now in England," and say, "Now slavery is entirely
                            thrown away and every Servant Man or Woman are properly hired Servants."
                            But the habit of regarding the peasant as a recent serf had its
                            influence in the treatment of him.
                        The "spirit," who was later called a crimp, was on the watch for him. Did
                            they need more soldiers in Flanders? The spirit, by means best known to
                            himself, packed off the poor man to Flanders. He was equally ready to
                            ship him to any other country for a reward. The Virginia colony began to
                            ask for people. The wilderness was hungry for laborers. The spirit
                            shipped little children by the score down the Thames and off for
                            America. Parents followed the vessels all the way to Gravesend, but the
                            law would not help them; Virginia wanted laborers. Sometimes a parent
                            could pay enough to get the lad released. Men were carried also to that
                            abode of hopelessness. From the first there were two general classes:
                            free apprentices and convicts mostly for petty crimes. "Apprentices,"
                            says Chamberlayne, "are a sort of servant that carry the mask of Pure
                            villains or Bond slaves, differing however in that Apprentices are
                            slaves only for a term and by covenant."
                        
                            Chamberlayne, 1696-1702.
                        
                        
                            Note 19.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        XV.
                        From the outset there were in New England as well as in Virginia
                            apprenticed servants, who had been bound for a long term before leaving
                            England, and were treated as a recognized species of property. Winthrop
                            speaks of the "money" the three hundred servants had cost that they were
                            enforced to set free for want of food. Cradock and others who did not
                            come to New England sent servants to take care of estates for them. In
                            1629 De Vries, the Dutch traveler, saw English men and women staked and
                            lost at cards, and he bluntly told the Virginians that he had "never
                            seen such work in Turk or Barbarian." George Donne, the author of a
                            manuscript in the Bodleian, saw servants brought to Virginia by the
                            shipload after 1630, and he describes the horrors of the traffic, their
                            insufficient food, their ragged and barefoot condition, and their
                            landing far from their destination and being forced to march the rest of
                            the way in their enfeebled state. Nearly all the emigrants that came
                            between 1620 and 1650 were bondsmen. This does not imply that they were
                            not some of them educated, for many Latin-school men were obliged to
                            sell themselves to the crimp. After the Restoration servants were sold
                            in great numbers to Virginia. Fifteen hundred a year is the estimate of
                            Berkeley at a time when Virginia contained but two thousand black
                            slaves. As the term was for four years, there were six thousand 
                                Servants in the colonies.
                            
                            
                                Donne's MS.
                            
                            
                                See note 16, chapter v. Compare Diary of John Harrower; Am. Hist.
                                    Rev., vi, No. 1.
                            
                             white slaves always in bondage there.
                            Before 1650 the term of some was ten years or more, and that of many was
                            seven or eight years. After the restoration of the Stuarts in 1660 the
                            term of service was permanently reduced to four years.
                    
                    
                        XVI.
                        English laborers bound themselves to serve a term of years, fairly hoping
                            to better their condition in America; and men in domestic or other
                            trouble would sell themselves for a term of service in the plantations,
                            plunging into the abyss and trusting to luck to come up in better plight
                            in a new world. Husbands forsaking their wives lost their identity in
                            the transport ship, and wives fleeing from unbearable husbands were
                            swallowed up in the flood. Runaway children and fleeing apprentices were
                            greedily welcomed by the crimps; felons and prison breakers pursued by
                            hue and cry were quickly safe on board. In those days of slow
                            communication, renegades of every sort were as utterly lost to their old
                            lives in America as they could have been had they migrated to the moon.
                            It was an age of flogging; criminals, soldiers, sailors, pupils,
                            children, and now and then even wives, were thought the better for
                            scourging. One ought hardly to be surprised, therefore, at the numerous
                            and cruel whippings of English servants, women as well as men, who were
                            scourged naked with hickory rods and washed 
                                Fate of servants.
                            
                             with brine; the punishment continuing
                            sometimes at intervals for hours, or being renewed day after day. There
                            were also in use, by masters and overseers, thumbscrews, sweatings, and
                            other such devil's devices. The food allowed was sometimes a scant diet
                            of Indian meal. The sick servant was neglected lest the doctor's charge
                            should exceed the value of his remaining service; and one thrifty master
                            in Maryland required a servant, sick of a mortal disease, to dig his own
                            grave in advance, in order to save the other men's time. In 1705
                            Virginia prohibited the secret burial of servants and the whipping of
                            "Christian white servants" naked, without the consent of a justice.
                            Great numbers fled away from the sharpness of bondage, taking the risk
                            of cruel punishments and an extension of their terms if captured. During
                            the existence of New Netherland, Dutch servants broke away to New
                            England or Maryland, while English servants from both directions made
                            their way to the Dutch territory. With New England the Dutch had at one
                            time a treaty for the return of those "who carried their passports under
                            their feet." To get away on shipboard, to seize a shallop and make off
                            to a neighboring colony, and represent themselves as shipwrecked
                            mariners, and to fly to the Indians, were favorite devices of runaways.
                            So great was the number of fugitives that "inferior persons" were always
                            liable to arrest on suspicion. North Carolina was filled with runaways
                            from Virginia. In 1663 a dangerous conspiracy of indentured servants
                                
                                Danker's Journal.
                            
                             was discovered in Virginia, and a general
                            fear of the class, among whom were many desperate characters, probably
                            prompted much of the severe treatment inflicted on bondmen. The Pilgrims
                            found that servants led astray "the unstaid and young." The
                            Massachusetts colonists before starting essayed at considerable cost to
                            sift their servants, excluding a corrupt element; they even sent back
                            two boys who had shown vicious propensities on shipboard. But the large
                            proportion of penalties meted out to servants during the first years of
                            the colonies shows how slight was the effect of the sifting process.
                            Even in the colonies where the convict element was shut out, many of the
                            servants were obtained from dangerous classes, such as "sturdy beggars,
                            gypsies, and other incorrigible rogues, idle and debauched persons."
                            They could "eat till they sweat and work till they freeze," in the
                            quaint words of a traveler in New England. It was probably from those
                            who had been servants that the sea rovers fitting out in the colonies
                            found recruits. The pirate James, when short of hands, lay off the
                            Virginia coast and captured transport ships, many of the convicts and
                            servants in them preferring to risk a halter in cruising "on the grand
                            account" to pining in colonial bondage. In some instances the criminal
                            transports rose and slaughtered the crew, taking the ship into some
                            out-of-the-way harbor and escaping. The degradation of the women
                            servants was a continual source of evil; laws were made to correct their
                            immoralities, and other laws  to prevent
                            these "Christians" from intermarrying with the heathen Africans. In all
                            the colonies there were those brought as servants, even as convicts, who
                            rose to wealth through industry and frugality, two virtues on which a
                            new land pays high premium. Some founded families that attained to honor
                            and influence.
                    
                    
                        XVII.
                        The severity of English penal laws occasioned evasions of all kinds; for
                            Anglo-Saxon people prefer to reform an abuse by avoidance rather than by
                            direct abolition. The old provision for "benefit of clergy" was
                            stretched to an absurd comprehensiveness. The need for men in the
                            colonies offered a new opportunity for merciful evasions of the death
                            penalty in cases of minor felony. It became common to pardon thieves on
                            condition, of their accepting a seven years' term of service in the
                            colonies, and the English State-Paper Office has many curious petitions
                            for this commutation. As early as 1622 a horse thief indicates that he
                            much prefers service in Virginia to hanging. At a later period a husband
                            is found petitioning on behalf of his wife, condemned to death for
                            stealing three-and-sixpence, that she might be transported to any
                            plantation. After the Restoration it was enacted that justices, at their
                            discretion, might send "loose and disorderly persons" to the colonies,
                            and at intervals a hundred or so of "Newgate birds" were taken in a
                            close lighter from Blackfriars to Woolwich, 
                                Convict servants.
                            
                            
                                State Papers, passim.
                                
                            
                             where they were put aboard ship for
                            America.
                        Bristol was the chief center of the colonial trade; here even the small
                            traders and sometimes the peddlers had ventures in the colonies.
                            Bristol, therefore, naturally took the lead in the servant trade, and
                            most of the great officers of the city became involved in kidnapping.
                            When, in Bristol, a man was on trial for some small crime, the petty
                            officers would persuade him to beg for transportation in order to escape
                            being hanged. These transports were then assigned to the mayor and each
                            of the aldermen in turn, who sold them to the plantations, and grew rich
                            from the spoils of the poor and the desperate. In the most paradoxical
                            scene in judicial history the worst of judges, George Jeffreys, himself
                            reeking with corruptions and cruelties incredible, is found arraigning
                            aldermen of this opulent city for their share in this trade. Ordering
                            the scarlet-robed mayor from his seat on the bench to a place in the
                            prisoner's dock, he cried, with brutal exultation, "See how the
                            kidnapping rogue looks !" He ranted at the aldermen in words too vile to
                            be reprinted. Yet the selling of condemned men and the condemning of men
                            that they might be sold were practiced openly at the court of James II
                            at this very time. The ladies of the queen's bedchamber and the queen
                            herself eagerly snatched at the profits from the sale of the rebels of
                            Monmouth's rebellion, whom Jeffreys had just then condemned; even  William Penn begged for twenty of them
                            for the Philadelphia market.
                    
                    
                        XVIII.
                        In 1619 a "Holland man-of-war," short of water and food, put into the
                            James River, and cast anchor before the only English settlement on this
                            side of the globe. The captain was forbidden to land, but as he
                            threatened to throw overboard some slaves captured in the West Indies,
                            Captain Kendall, commanding at Jamestown, exchanged some "presents" for
                            them. These fourteen "negars" were the first slaves in English America.
                            The opening of new settlements and the lighting upon new staple products
                            produced a demand for unskilled labor which the English "spirits" or
                            crimps could not adequately supply. Negroes were therefore brought from
                            the West Indies, and afterward direct from Africa or Madagascar. The
                            labor of slaves increased the ability of the colonies to "take off"
                            English goods; it is therefore not surprising that a Committee on
                            Foreign Plantations, soon after the Restoration, declared that "black
                            slaves were the most useful appurtenances of a plantation."
                        The English serfs had received their freedom chiefly on theological
                            grounds as fellow-Christians, with some additional weight thrown into
                            the scale by their being fellow-Englishmen. But freeborn Englishmen were
                            by custom sold into severe bondage for long terms, and even sent beyond
                            seas 
                                Introduction of slaves.
                            
                             large numbers; there could, therefore, be
                            no repugnance in the minds of the colonists to the enslavement of
                            blacks, who were not only pagans, but so different in appearance as to
                            seem to be another species, not entitled to human consideration. At
                            least, if they came from Adam, they were by some theological experts
                            identified with the cursed descendants of Cain, for Ham was thought to
                            have found a wife in the land of Nod.
                    
                    
                        XIX.
                        Slavery is more ancient than historic records. In the centuries of
                            warfare between Christians and Mohammedans, the practice of enslaving
                            captives outlawed by their "infidelity" had prevailed. Negroes were
                            easily confounded with the Moors, and thousands of blacks were annually
                            brought into Europe for sale as early as the middle of the fifteenth
                            century; and a century later, in 1553, one finds four-and-twenty of them
                            brought as far as England. From Spain first, and then directly from
                            Africa, black slaves had been carried to the Spanish colonies to develop
                            the mines. The Royal African Company of England announced to Charles II,
                            in 1663, that the very existence of the plantations depended on an
                            adequate supply of negro servants; and though their declaration was due
                            to cupidity, it was at least true that all rich and successful American
                            colonies up to this time had possessed slaves. So late as 1735 the Lords
                                
                                African slavery.
                            
                             Commissioners of Trade declared that the
                            colonies "could not possibly subsist" without an adequate supply of
                            slaves. Indeed, the first effect of the introduction of slaves was a
                            rapid advancement in subduing forests and opening sources of wealth.
                        For nearly sixty years after the beginning of negro slavery here, there
                            seems to have been no scruple or question about it. The lifelong bondage
                            of negroes was tacitly justified by their heathen condition. When, in
                            1677, the question was first raised in an English court, Africans were
                            held to be slaves by the custom of merchants and "as being infidels."
                            This notion was so general that very many planters resisted efforts to
                            instruct their slaves in the Christian religion, lest baptism should
                            emancipate them. To remove this obstacle the Virginia Assembly had
                            enacted, in 1667, that the conversion of a slave should not invalidate
                            the owner's claim to his services, and similar laws were afterward made
                            in most of the other provinces. But these laws were merely of colonial
                            authority, and were not sufficient to overcome the scruple of
                            covetousness. A proposal from England to encourage the conversion of the
                            negroes "would not go down" with the New York Assembly in 1699.
                            Philanthropic exertion for the negro was at first wholly religious,
                            seeking his conversion not so much for the good of the negro as for the
                            glory of Christianity. The attention of James II having been called to
                            the pagan condition of the negroes, he resolved at the council board, in
                            1685,  that all the slaves in the
                            plantation should be christened; the thought of baptizing them in a mass
                            by royal order, whether they would or no, was no doubt doubly pleasing
                            to him as a zealot and as a lover of arbitrary methods. Efforts to
                            convert the slaves in the seventeenth century were few and languid, the
                            most notable being those of the superannuated Eliot, in Massachusetts.
                            There were a few individuals who, like William Penn in 1700, had "a
                            concern for the souls of the blacks "; but many held them to be quite
                            without souls, and hence not proper objects of concern.
                    
                    
                        XX.
                        The first voice in America to speak against the perpetual bondage of man
                            to man was heard in a memorial of some Friends of Germantown in
                            Pennsylvania. This protest, in vigorous broken English, was addressed to
                            the Philadelphia Yearly Meeting in 1688, and it opened an agitation
                            which resulted, seventy years later, in bringing the Philadelphia
                            Quakers to a conclusion opposed to slaveholding. In the fundamental law
                            of Massachusetts and Connecticut, villanage and other feudal servitudes
                            were prohibited, and in 1646 the Massachusetts General Court actually
                            undertook to send back to Africa negroes who had been kidnapped by a
                            slaver, and to send with them a letter of apology and explanation. But
                            the Calvinist reverence for the law of Moses was a less elastic 
                                Antislavery movements.
                            
                             standard than the "inward light" of the
                            followers of Fox. If the early Puritan, bound to the letter of
                            Scripture, was less likely to run into aberrant fanaticism than the
                            Friend, he was also less quick to gain new and modern views of duty.
                            Refusing to participate with "man-stealers," the textual conscience of
                            the Massachusetts forefathers did not shrink from selling Indians
                            captured in war into chattel slavery, or from buying slaves who appeared
                            to have come into bondage otherwise than by downright kidnapping. These
                            nice distinctions could not be kept up, and thousands of negro slaves
                            were sold into New England without any question for conscience' sake.
                            The scruple about human liberty with which the Puritan forefathers had
                            come to this country had been swiftly forgotten. Some merchants of
                            Boston were engaged in the Guinea trade, of which, however, Newport was
                            the great center. Before the antislavery writings of the Quakers,
                            Hepburn, Burling, Lay, and Sandiford, had appeared, an influential but
                            rather timid voice, that of Judge Sewall, was heard opposing the
                            importation of slaves to Massachusetts. He had been led by the narrow
                            theological spirit in which he was bred into grievous mistakes in the
                            witchcraft trials, but he was an honest and even a scrupulous man. Fond
                            of popular favor and shrinking from censure, it cost him a struggle no
                            doubt to give to the press, in 1700, his little tract against the slave
                            trade, entitled The Selling of Joseph. Its influence was probably not
                            great.
                        
                        So closed the seventeenth century. The progress in humanity had been very
                            slight. The number of bond servants was constantly increasing; the black
                            tide of African slavery was ever swelling. No voice worthy of the name
                            was yet heard in protest.
                    
                    
                        ELUCIDATIONS.
                        
                        "'Fine and recovery,' 'conveyance to uses,' 'lease and releases'all the
                            circuitous forms that evasion had been compelled to assumesurvived,
                            together with the whole storehouse of factitious science that had grown
                            up round them. Once launched into existence, the system of private and
                            unregistered conveyance had generated a science and a vocabulary
                            applicable to the numberless 'estates' created in law, which made every
                            title a matter of intimate personal history; hence arose the necessity
                            of investigations requiring the most practiced and recondite knowledge
                            of the old body of statute law which feudalism had left behind it."
                            Hoskyns, The Land Laws of England, in Systems of Land Tenure, p. 183.
                        See the note on p. 482 of Hening, vol. i, on the alternate forbidding and
                            licensing of lawyers in Virginia. In 1642 the new governor had things
                            his own way and admitted attorneys; in 1645 mercenary attorneys were
                            expelled, in 1647 the act was made stronger, in 1656 all acts against
                            mercenaiy attorneys were repealed, and in 1658 a vote of total expulsion
                            was taken.
                        "The particular usages of the Saxons, however, were very similar to the
                            present. The twig and turf were the simplest method of livery, and by
                            the twig and turf did they give seizin to the purchaser. When grants
                            were made to the church, a twig was usually laid on the altar. This
                            occurred so frequently that it would be useless to cite instances in its
                            support. A tree growing on a soil was regarded as a part of it, hence a
                            branch of it served to give seizin. . . . When Ulphus, king of Deira,
                            gave lands to the church of York he 'took the horn, wherein he was wont
                            to drink, and filling it with wine, kneeled before the altar' and
                            deposited it as a symbol of possession. . . . In the time of 
                                Note 1, page 273.
                            
                            
                                Note 2, page 273.
                            
                            
                                Note 3, page 275.
                            
                             Henry III, William Earl of Warrenne and
                            Surrey, on a grant made by him to the priory of St. Pancrace, delivered
                            seizin by the hair of his head." Watkins, Law of Tenures, pp. 81, 82,
                            note xxxiii. See the article on Charter Horns in Andrews's Old Church
                            Lore.
                        In some parts of England and Ireland tenures are by the custom of some
                            manors conveyed by a bit of rush, straw, or hay. I have this by report
                            as to Ireland, and in the present day. See also the custom of
                            Yetminster, Dorset, in Watkins on Copyholds, 544.
                        Private property in a strip in a common field came in only when fields
                            become permanently arable. Nasse, 11. North Devon common lands were
                            cultivated one or two years and then left to pasture in the latter part
                            of the eighteenth century. Marshall's Rural Economy, 259. New England
                            had land in considerable quantities reallotted every year at first. Land
                            was still allotted thus in England in some places. It ought to be
                            remarked here that Rhode Island was first organized into towns, and for
                            a long time was a congeries of independent towns. From the vices of that
                            system the State has not yet recovered. First Assembly of Rhode Island,
                            15. Rehoboth, on account of its remoteness, was for a long time
                            virtually independent, and was built in a semicircle. Newman's Rehoboth,
                            15, 16. In Stiles's manuscript I have seen an account of a town built in
                            a circle about the church.
                        Mr. Seebohm calls attention to the animated scene in the common fields at
                            the time of planting, as described by Piers Ploughman in the prologus:
                        
                            "A faire field full of folke fonde I there bytwene
                            Of alle manner of men the mene and the riche
                            Worchyng and wanderyng as the world asketh."Text B.
                        
                        Mr. Ashton, in his Humour, etc., of the Seventeenth Century, gives this:
                        
                            "A Lord, that purpos'd for his more availe
                            To compass in a Common with a rayle,
                            Was reckoning with his friend about the cost
                            And charge of every rayle, and every post;
                            But he (that wisht his greedy humor crost)
                            Said, 'Sir, provide you Posts, and without sayling,
                            Your neighbours round about will find you rayling.'"
                        
                        
                            Note 4, page 276.
                        
                        
                            Note 5, page 278.
                        
                        
                            Note 6, page 279.
                        
                        
                            Note 7, page 280.
                        
                        
                        And this other:
                        
                            "There be many rich men, both Yeoman and Gentry,
                            That for their owne private gaine hurt a whole country;
                            By closing free commons, yet they'le make as though
                            'Twere for common good, but I know what I know."
                        
                        A penny an acre was the result of knight's fee system as shown by Seebohm
                            very ingeniously, p. 39. Towns paid quitrents as a whole in New York
                            State. There is never any separation of a town into severalties in any
                            State. The town processions the land, pays taxes, etc. Livingston and
                            Smith's Laws of New York, vol. ii, 237-249. In the Grants and Ceremonies
                            of New Jersey of Learning and Spicer, 1664, it is provided that the lots
                            shall be of certain sizes, "excepting Cities, Towns, and the near Lots
                            of Townships. By 1672 towns were becoming common, and the regular laying
                            out of Land, Rules for building each Street in Townships and Quantities
                            of Ground for each House Lot, the same is left to the freeholder or
                            first undertaker thereof." The antiquity of the swineherd may be
                            appreciated by the mention of him in the Thorold Rogers in the Middle
                            Ages, Work and Wages, 83.
                        The law that each cultivator was accountable for a portion of fence, and
                            must pay the damage done by cattle intruding, was as old as the laws of
                            Ine in the seventh century, and probably much earlier. This equitable
                            law existed in New England, New York, New Jersey, etc., a thousand years
                            after. Compare Seebohm's Village Community, 110.
                        Of primitive town government no better outline is afforded than that
                            found in Connecticut Records, i, 30 (1639):
                        "The Townes of Hartford, Windsore, and Wethersfield, or any other of the
                            Townes within this jurisdiction, shall each of them have power to
                            dispose of their owne lands vndisposed of, and all other comodityes
                            arysing out of their owne lymitts bounded out by the Court, the
                            libertyes of the great River excepted, as also to choose their owne
                            officers, and make such orders as may be for the well ordering of their
                            owne Townes, being not repugnant to any law here established, as also to
                            impose penaltyes for the breach of the same, and to estreat and levy the
                            same, and for non-payment to distrayne, and yf there be noe personall
                            estate, to sue to the Court to sell his or their house or land, for
                            making satisfaction. Also each of the aforesayd Townes shall have power
                            by a generall consent once every yeare to choose out 3, 5, or 7 of 
                                Note 8, page 282.
                            
                            
                                Note 9, page 282.
                            
                            
                                Note 10, page 283.
                            
                             their cheefe Inhabitants, whereof one to
                            be chosen moderater, who having taken an oath prouided in that case,
                            shall have a casting voice in case they be equall, weh sayd prsons shall
                            meett once in every 2 monthes & being mett together, or the
                            maior part of them, whereof the moderater to be one, they shall have
                            power to heare, end and determine all controversies, eyther tresspasses
                            or debts not exceeding 40s. provided both paiftyes live in the same
                            Towne; also any two of them or the moderater may graunt out summons to
                            the party or partyes to come to their meetings to answere the actions;
                            also to administer oath to any witnesses for the clearing of the cause,
                            and to give judgment and execution against the party offending. But yf
                            eyther party be grieved att the sentence, he shall haue liberty to
                            appeale to a higher Court, prvided it be before iudgment and execution
                            be graunted. But yf it fall out there be noe ground for the appeale, the
                            Court to confirme the iudgment and give good cost and fine or punish the
                            party appealing."
                        Of town communities in "Delewer" Bay in 1670 the following is from
                            Denton's Brief Description of New York: "These persons being thus
                            qualified settle the place and take in what inhabitants to themselves
                            they shall see cause to admit of until their Town be full; these
                            associates thus taken in have equal privileges with themselves and they
                            make a division of the Land suitable to every man's occasions, no man
                            being debarr'd of such quantities as he hath occasion for, the rest they
                            let lie in common till they have occasion for a new division, never
                            dividing their Pastureland at all which lies in common to the whole
                            Town." There is some ambiguity in Denton's description, and the towns
                            may refer themselves to New Jersey and New York. An instance of village
                            community of French origin is found in Parkrnan's Discovery of the Great
                            West, p. 7. Here there are town lots with arable land outside of the
                            manor and an annual rent to the lord of the manor. Parkrnan's authority
                            is Abb Faillon's La Colonie Franaise in Canada.
                        In enumerating "The Common Land of the companie," Sir Edwin Sandys says,
                            "three thousand in each of the fower old Burroughes." Here the borough
                            is made the local unit, as was frequently the case in Englanda district
                            with common lands. The Records of Virginia, p. 15. In New England the
                            town became the borough for representation; in Virginia the borough or
                            lundred began, but the unit soon drifted into the county with 
                                Note 11, page 285.
                            
                            
                                Note 12, page 285.
                            
                             which the parish was almost always
                            coterminous. Bacon's Laws of Maryland, 1694, provide for the laying out
                            of a common for a new town. This was the usual course of procedure. Long
                            before this time it is probable that manors were given up. Copley to
                            Lord Baltimore, April 3, 1638, in Calvert papers, makes a strong
                            statement of the difficulty of maintaining them in Maryland.
                        Charter to Throckmorton, Yeardley, R. Berkley, and Smythe, in Smith of
                            Nibley MSS., 57: "And shall also within the said terme of seaven years
                            grant to the said Adventurers... letters and grants of incorporacion by
                            some vsuall or fit name or title with liberty to them and their
                            successors from tyme to tyme to frame and make orders ordinances and
                            constitutions for the rule... and directynge of all persons to be
                            transported and settled vpon the land hereby intended to be granted,"
                            etc. This bears date February 3, 1618 (1619), and was no doubt the model
                            on which many grants were made at that time. It indicated a liberal gift
                            of local autonomy hardly to be realized without the granting of township
                            government or of government by the borough or hundred. The colony of
                            Virginia was to have no jurisdiction except in case of "tryals of
                            matters of Justice by appeale or otherwise." This was precisely the case
                            with the more independent towns in England. Gomme's English Village
                            Communities, generally.
                        But the uninclosed vacant lots on which speculators planned to build, and
                            on which cattle were pastured, took the name of commons and held it all
                            the way into the interior. Commons they are to-day, but the title and
                            the thing are passing into swift forgetfulness. Boston Common remains a
                            part of the original common land of the town, and there are some others.
                        The same men were reappointed by the Petsoe Vestry in 1699, "oversears of
                            the highways" for another year, "they having not perform'd the offiss
                            thare unto belonging the year Past."
                        Harrison marks this difference in descent in Elizabeth's day: "Burrow
                            kind" where the younger is preferred before the others, "which is the
                            custome of manie counties of this region"; also the woman to have the
                            third of her husband's possessions.
                        Nasse cites the statute of 1488, chaps, xvi and xix as marking the
                            beginning of inclosures of commons. The last was "An act 
                                Note 13, page 285.
                            
                            
                                Note 14, page 290.
                            
                            
                                Note 15, page 290.
                            
                            
                                Note 16, page 293.
                            
                            
                                Note 17, page 294.
                            
                             against pulling down of townes." It had
                            no doubt begun somewhat earlier. In 1513 a law of Henry VIII prescribes
                            that the "pulling downe and destruction of townes within this realm, and
                            laying to pasture lands which customably have been manured and occupyed
                            wyth tythage and husbandry," should be restored. So the succeeding acts
                            of 24 and 25 Henry VIII. The reformer Becon denounces the "wrong they
                            have done to the poor commons, as by making common pastures several to
                            themselves," etc. Fortress of the Faithful, 598. The character of
                            Latimer's sermons against the abuse is well known. In 1549 the peasantry
                            rose in an endeavor to restore the commons. Harrison says in 1577 that
                            some "daily do make beggars inough whereby to pester the land espieng a
                            further commoditie in their commons, holds, tenures, dooth find such
                            meanes as therby to wipe many out of their occupiengs, and turne the
                            same unto his private gaines." Holinshed, i, 308. In 1607 riots are
                            noted against inclosures of commons and wastes. Nichol's Poor Laws, 232.
                            There is a sermon on the Rainbow preached at Paul's Cross in 1617 by
                            Bourne, in which he graphically says: "Depopulators have inclosed
                            fields, townes, churches, and all, pulling those down which their
                            religious forefathers did build up, stopping doores with thornes and
                            their windows with brushes; yea, covering their roofs with thatch; nay,
                            leaving them naked or else turning these holy places into barnes or
                            sheepcoates or other prophane uses," p. 47. See also Stafford's A Brief
                            Conceipt of English Pollicy, 1632. Harleian Miscell. ix, 199. The
                            extracts that might be quoted are all but innumerable, but Marshall in
                            1786 shall end these where he says that the spirit of inclosure is such
                            that in half a century more an open field or undivided common may be
                            rare. It was the cry of oppression at first, when the change to sheep
                            farming was made. Selden says Depopulatio Agrorum is a great offense in
                            the common law. And yet this revolution in agriculture, so unjustly
                            enforced, was beneficial to England. The peasants thrown out to beg
                            lived or died according to their shiftiness. The cruel law of natural
                            selection destroyed those unable to adapt themselves; human advancement
                            is pitiless and unforgiving.
                        Chamberlayne's State of England, All the volumes after 1710 say of
                            villanage, "But this kind of tenure is in a manner out of use."I am
                            aware that this brings serfdom further down than the authorities by a
                            hundred and fifty years. The copy I consulted lacked the volumes between
                            1702 and 1708, but the change 
                                Note 18, page 294.
                            
                             takes place in that interval. Serfdom
                            went out before this time; it had practically been out of use for long
                            generations.
                        Servants hired or apprenticed "were subject to be corrected by their
                            Master or Mistress, and resistance by a servant is punished with some
                            severe penalty," says Chamberlayne. A fatal blow from a servant to a
                            master was petty treason, and brought on him capital punishment. He had
                            no redress for ill treatment. The hired servant as well as the
                            apprentice might be sold for his unexpired time. He must work for a
                            price fixed by others, and no man would hire him without the permission
                            of his former master. He was a slave for a time in all but name. Any
                            combination on the part of the employed looking to a strike was
                            treasonable.
                        NOTE.I have reserved the Carolinas and Pennsylvania
                            until they can be fully treated. Their history in the seventeenth
                            century is short.
                        
                            Note 19, page 295.
                        
                        
                    
                
            
        
        
            
            
                INDEX.
                Abbeys, places for the education of young people, 256, n. 1.
                Abce book, 213; 258, n. 4.
                Aberdeen Burgh Records, 270, n. 28.
                Abridgment of Philosophical Transactions, Sir R. Murray in, 42, n. 12; Dr. T.
                    Robinson in, 42, n. 12.
                Abstract of Records, 260, n. 9.
                Accomac County, Virginia, Records of, 74, m.; 148; 290, m.
                "Accommodation, an," 279; 287; town had refusal of, if sold, 289.
                Account of foundation of Society for Propagation of the Gospel, appendix to the
                    sermon of 1706, 167, m.
                Acosta's Hist. Nat., etc., 65, m.; 90, n. 20; 102, M.; 103, m.; 131, n. 7; 133,
                    n. 10.
                Acre right, 279.
                Acrelius, 132, n. 8.
                Adam, the sin of, 177; criminal exhorted to repent of, 203, n. 25.
                Adams's, H. B., Cape Ann and Salem, 275, m.
                Adams, John, ignorant of origin of commune, 280.
                Addison's, Joseph, essay on witchcraft in The Spectator, 46, n. 18.
                Adrian, Pope, amulet worn by, 90, n. 20.
                gineta, Paulus, Adams's Commentary on, 51, m.; extracts from tius in, 51, m.; 52,
                    m.; 57, m.: 63, m.; 64, m.; 71, m.; 81, n. 5; 85, n. 10; 90, n. 20; 94, n. 30.
                Affections, natural, subordinated to duty, 193.
                African slavery, 303-305. See also SLAVERY, SLAVES.
                African speech left hardly a trace upon dialect, 112.
                Ague, popular cure for, 92, n. 25.
                Alexipharmical mixtures whose virtues have no rational basis, 90, n. 20.
                Allen's, James, Election Sermon, 163, m.
                Alms-deeds, "liberalitie in, foundation for reward in eternall life," 170.
                Altar fires, peril of kindling, with embers from hell, 29.
                Ambassadors shut into Winthrop's house over Sunday, 162.
                American, the, nimble-witted, but less patient and profound than the Englishman,
                    127.
                American Antiquarian Society Transactions, 8, m.
                American herbs esteemed medicinal, 67, 68.
                American Journal of Science, 132, n. 8.
                American Philosophical Transactions, story of swallow taken out of slime in
                    February, 44, n. 13.
                American remedies, 69-72.
                American witchcraft, pamphlet bibliography of, 47, n. 20.
                Americanisms borrowed from both ends of England, 109, 110.
                Ames's, William, A Sound out of Zion, 186, m.
                Ames's Almanac, 1730, 107, m.
                Amsterdam Pharmacopoeia, formula in, 86, n. 14.
                Amulet, mode of preparing a toad for an, 85, n. 10; worn by Pope Adrian next his
                    heart, 90, n. 20.
                Amulets, superstitious use of, 71; cure by similitudes found in treatment by, 84,
                    n. 7.
                Anabaptists, opinion about angels held by, 45, n. 15.
                Andromachus, physician to Nero, 63; added flesh of viper to universal antidote,
                    63; remedy of, lauded by Galen, 63.
                Andrews's Old Church Lore, 308, n. 3.
                
                Angels, uncountable, turned round the crystalline spheres, 17; gave warnings by
                    dreams, 18; classic dignity of Milton's evil, 22.
                Anglo-Saxon culture developed in America, 1.
                Animal life, marvelous stories of, 15.
                Animal remedies in use in early colonial practice and in Europe, 72; 83, n. 7.
                Animals, American, popular use of, 69; named by descriptive epithets, 100 not
                    easily fitted with English titles, 105.
                Antimony, sulphuret of, used by Jews, 94, n. 30; one of the "seven wonders of the
                    world," 94, n. 30.
                Anti-ritualism, extremes of, 187.
                Antislavery movements, 305, 306.
                Appeal to higher courts, right to, hampered and watched in Connecticut, 280.
                Apple-eating on the Sabbath reprehensible, 161.
                Apprenticed servants treated as property, 296.
                Apprentices, free, 295.
                Aramatori the first to question equivocal generation of insects, 41, n. 12.
                Arcanum Lullianum, most secret mode of compounding the Universal Medicine in the,
                    88, n. 16.
                Archdale, tolerant Quaker Governor of South Carolina, 150.
                Archdale's Carolina, 150, m.
                Argall, character of, 156.
                Aristotelis Secretum Secretorum, 37, n. 4.
                Aristotle observed everything, 48; circulation of the blood contrary to authority
                    of, 49.
                Army worm regarded with wonder in Massachusetts, 39, n. 9.
                Articles of Visitation. See CRANMER'S ARTICLES, etc.
                Asceticism, skimmed-milk, of the early schools, 209.
                Ascham, Roger, praised cockfighting, 181; on the barbarity of school-masters,
                    242; writes The Scholemaster, 242.
                Ashton's Humor of the Seventeenth Century, 308, n. 7.
                Assimulate, curing by the, 57.
                Astrology, works on, esteemed, 5; crossed the wide seas with the emigrants, 6;
                    popularity of, 37, n. 6; opposed by some of the clergy. 37, n. 6; doctrine of
                    correspondence connects closely with every other science, 37, n. 6.
                Astronomical Description of the Late Comet or Blazing Star, by Samuel Danforth,
                    35, n. 3.
                Astronomical errors in orthodox circles, 4.
                Astronomy the science that touched the popular imagination, 3.
                Astruc's Histoire de la Facult de Mdecine de Montpellier, 95, n. 30.
                Atwater's New Haven, 236, M.; 268, n. 24.
                Aubrey, quoted in Prefatory Memoir to reprint of Exercitatio, 48, m.
                Aubrey's Miscellanies, 91, n. 21.
                Auroras seen as swords of flame, 9; awful forerunners, 9.
                Austerities, Puritan, enforced with ruthless severity, 161.
                "Awakening, the Great," metamorphosed into philanthropic agitations, 168.
                Babylonical letter-learned physicians to be discountenanced, 79.
                Bacon, Francis, not known to the emigrants, 3; flounders in exploring coasts of
                    physical science, 10, 11; superstition of, 23; inclined to believe in weapon
                    ointment, 60; remedy for colic given by, 84, n. 9; scruples against idolatry
                    shown by, 151.
                Bacon, Nathaniel, the Virginia rebel, last illness of, a divine judgment, 11; 40,
                    n. 11.
                Bacon's Laws of Maryland, 149, m. 239, m.; 311, n. 12.
                Bacon's Natural History, 11, m.; 40, n. 12; 60, m.; 81, n. 5; 85, n. 11.
                Bacon's rebellion in Virginia, people warned of, by signs, 8.
                Bailey's Andover, 235, m.: 237, m.; m.; 240, 261, n. 9; 271, n. 29.
                Bannister, the botanist, observed Virginia plants, 69.
                Baptism necessary to salvation, 175; of babes not always to be had in New
                    England, 184; saving virtue ascribed to, 200, n. 21; value attached to, by the
                    people, 200, n. 21; "the gate," 203, n. 26.
                
                Barbarism, medival, of the people, 180.
                Barbecue in general use in colonies, 133, n. 13.
                Barber, surgical implements of, 74.
                Barber's Historical Collections of New Jersey, 117, m.; 204, n. 30.
                Barber's New York Collection, 20, m.
                Barclay's Inner Life of the Sects of the Commonwealth, 186, m.; 205, n. 32.
                Barkly or Berkeley, sub-colony of, 285.
                Barrough's Method of Phisicke, a handbook in New England and Virginia, 54; 82, n.
                    6; 94, n. 29; translated into the Indian tongue by Eliot, 169.
                Barrow, the Separatist, 205, n. 32.
                Barrowist system prevailed generally in New England, 204, n. 31.
                Barton's Medical and Physical Journal, 57, m.
                Bartram, John, the Pennsylvania botanist, Observations, 136, n. 19.
                Bartram, William, on swallows hibernating, 44, n. 13; Travels, 100, m.
                Basilica Chymica, a Paracelsian book, 54; 85, n. 10.
                Bassompierre's Embassy, 87, n. 14.
                Bay Psalm Book used as a reader, 213. See also NEW ENGLAND PSALM BOOK.
                Bayle, Pierce, inspired to write by comet of 1680, 39, n. 8; uvres de, 69.
                Bayly's, Bishop, Practice of Piety, esteemed as almost divine authority, 122;
                    translated into Indian tongue of Massachusetts, 122; much read in Virginia, 157;
                    plan of salvation in, 168, 169; reason for marvelous popularity of, 171;
                    ethereal verbalism in, 199, n. 19.
                Bean, kidney, good to strengthen the kidneys, 70; called Turkish bean, 103; 132,
                    n. 8.
                Bear baiting, the favorite Sunday amusement, 181; not imported to America, 181.
                Beavers eaten on fish days, 15.
                Beccaria's Dei Delitti e delle Pene, 199, n. 17.
                Becon's Fortress of the Faithful, 312, n. 18.
                Bede's Ecclesiastical History of England, 208, m.; 255, n. 1.
                Bees produced by kine in decomposition, 10; 39, n. 10.
                Beguin's lmens de Chymie, 90, n. 20.
                Behmen's, Jacob, De Signatura Rerum, 84, n. 8.
                Belknap's New Hampshire, 293, m.
                Benevolence of New England more effective than that of the South, 288.
                Berkeley, Sir William, absolute in Virginia, 249.
                Beschreibung and Contrefacture der Vornehmster Statt der Welte, 181, m.
                Beverley's History of Virginia, 133, n. 10; 134, n. 13; 223, m.
                Bezoar stone, a universal antidote, 64; mythical notion of origin, 65; used as a
                    remedy in the colonies, 66; called by Castrillo "Regna de las Vnenos," 90, n.
                    20.
                Bezoardick powder, ingredients of, 87, n. 14.
                Bezoart, seven kinds of, 90, n. 20.
                Bible, enlarging influence of authorized translation of, 98; excluded from the
                    service, 188, 189.
                Birds, migration of, 11, 12; proved to grow on trees, 12; hiding places of
                    migratory, 13.
                Bishop escorted by one hundred and fifty horsemen, 17.
                Bison named buffalo, 100.
                Black powder, Stafford's, a cure for smallpox and eruptive diseases, 57; method
                    of preparation, 58; 85, n. 10.
                Blacks, enslavement of, not repugnant to the colonists, 303.
                Blackstone on witchcraft in his Commentaries, 46, n. 18.
                Blair, James, efforts of, for William and Mary College, 252; reply of Seymour to,
                    252; held his place as bishop's commissary for half a century, 253; fifty years'
                    service brought no honors to, 254; students fired blank cartridges at, 270, n.
                    28; instructions to, from General Assembly, 272, n. 31.
                Bland's, E., Newe Brittaine, 103, m.
                Blanket, a colored, called a match-core, 106.
                Blasphemy suppressed by laws and military orders, 147; punishment for, derived
                    from medival codes, 196, n. 7.
                
                Bleeding used by barbers and other humble practitioners, 53.
                Blight of 1665 attributed to execution of Quaker martyrs, 150.
                Blood, circulation of the, theses on, in 1660 and 1699, 248.
                Blue Book for 1867, 268, n. 23.
                Boileau, in Arrt Burlesque, ridicules belief in comets being ominous, 38, n. 8;
                    concerning circulation of the blood, 49.
                Bolton's General Directions, 204, n. 29.
                Bonesetters, the, of early New England, 75.
                Book learning, lack of, compensated for, 10, 11.
                Book of Quinte Essence in E. E. Text Soc., 57, m.
                Books read in the colonies, 121; sent to Virginia in 1619, 122; old, of
                    seventeenth century libraries, 127, 128; the first, 212.
                Bossu's Nouveaux Voyages, 134, n. 13.
                Boston, first witch trial at, in 1648, 20; magistrate's wife at, hanged for a
                    witch, 20.
                Boston Common a part of the original common land of the town, 311, n. 14.
                Boston peninsula, gates of, closed on Sunday, 163.
                Boston Town Records, 226, m.; 237, m.
                Botany the foremost biological science, 68.
                Boucher's Causes, 264, n. 16.
                Bownd's famous treatise on the Sabbath, 157; 160; 163.
                Boyle's, Robert, Sceptical Chemist, 89, n. 18.
                Bozman's Maryland, 152, m.; 238, m.
                Bradford's Plymouth, 150, m.
                Bradstreet, Anne, beginner of New England poetry, on relation between elements
                    and humors of body, 50; sings of the number four, 81, n. 3; wrote verses in
                    imitation of Du Bartas, 123, 124; may have seen Hamlet in England, 139, n. 23;
                    "a right Du Bartas girle," 139, n. 24; example of an educated woman in New
                    England, 271, n. 29.
                Braithwayt's Drunken Barnaby, 136, n. 19; 169, m.
                Bray's General View of the Colonies, prefixed to sermon of 1697, 263, n. 14.
                Brayley and Britton's History of Hertfordshire, 129, n. 2.
                Breakfast, no, for schoolboys, 239; a meal not generally reckoned with, 240; none
                    in Henry VIII's time, 259, n. 5.
                Brewster, Elder, had been a printer in Holland, 120.
                Brickell's Carolina, 70, m.; 72, M.
                Brigham's Lowell Institute Lectures, 262, n. 12.
                Brinsley on school punishments, 243.
                Brinsley's, John, Consolations for our Grammar Schooles, 219, m.; 220, m.; 243,
                    m.; 264, n. 17; 269, n. 27, n. 28; 270, n. 28.
                Brinsley's, John, Ludus Literarius, 214, m.; 215, m.; 216, m.; 217, m.; 240, m.;
                    243, m.; 258, n. 3 259, n. 7; 259, n. 8; 269, n. 27.
                Brinsley, John, works of, most instructive to student of the history of
                    education, 269, n. 27.
                Bristol, England, chief center of colonial trade, 301.
                Bristol, R. I., established a school in 1682, 239.
                British Pharmacopia, universal antidote expelled from the, 63.
                Browne, Sir Thomas, superstition of, 23.
                Browne's, Sir Thomas, Vulgar Errors, 4, m.; 15, m.; 16, m.; 41, n. 12; 46, n. 19;
                    53, m.
                Brown's Travels, in Harris's Voyages, 15, m.
                Buccaneers confessed their sins whenever a rich prize hove in sight, 149.
                Buchanan, George, called "the prince of poets of our time," 139, n. 23.
                Buckra, a name for the white man, 112.
                Buckwheat, Asiatic origin of, 102; called Saracen corn, 102.
                Bull baiting forbidden by the colony of East Jersey, 204, n. 30.
                Bullein's Dialogue against the Fever Pestilence, 93, n. 26.
                Bullock's Virginia, 100, m.
                Bunyan's conscience awakened by the "Practice of Piety," 169.
                Burning to death in Boston and Cambridge, 182.
                
                Burroughs, George, the minister, hanged for his strength, 33.
                Burton's Anatomy of Melancholy, 13, m.; 44, n. 13; 60, m.; 89, n. 18.
                Bury Wills (Camden Society), 42, n. 12; 136, n. 19; 262, n. 12.
                Burying in gardens and orchards, 183.
                Bustard, Turkey, 130, n. 6.
                Butler's Feminine Monarchie, 39, n. 10.
                Byrd, William, of Westover, MSS. of, 140, n. 25; the first man sent to England
                    for education, 224.
                Byrd's Dividing Line, 175, m.
                Calamity, every, provoked by a particular sin, 150.
                Cal. Col. Papers, State Paper Office, 162, m.; 183, m.
                Calvert papers, 311, n. 12.
                Camden's Brittania, 261, n. 11.
                Cambridge Platform of 1648, 205, n. 31.
                Campanius's New Sweden, 101, m.; 103, m.
                Campbell's, Charles, History of Virginia, 251, m.
                Campbell's, Lord, Lives of the Chancellors, 140, n. 25.
                Canones Regiminis Ecclesiastici, 206, n. 34; 206, n. 35.
                Captives outlawed by "infidelity" enslaved, 303.
                Cards, men and women staked at, 296.
                Carew's, Richard, Survey of Cornwall, 13, m.; 43, n. 13.
                Carter, Colonel John, will of, 264, n. 16.
                Cartwright, the Puritan leader of Elizabeth's time, maxim of, 147; tied
                    Puritanism to temporal laws of Jews, 182; opposed to pagan names for children,
                    190.
                Casaubon's Enthusiasme, 1656, 21, m.
                Castiglione, the Italian botanist, 69.
                Castiglione's Viaggio negli Stati Uniti, 131, n. 7; 132, n. 9; 133, n. 10; 194,
                    n. 1.
                Castrillo, a Jesuit, on astrology, 38, n. 6.
                Castrillo's Magia Natural, o Ciencia de Filosofia Secreta, 38, n. 6; 65, m.; 83,
                    n. 7; 90, n. 20; 91, n. 21.
                Cat, the black, 26.
                Catechism, Assembly's, 195, n. 2.
                Catechism, Calvin's, 195, n. 2.
                Catechism, Cranmer's, of 1548, 174; 198, n. 14; 198, n. 15; 200, n. 21.
                Catechism of John Robinson, 205, n. 32.
                Catechism of Thomas Becon, 198, n. 11; 200, n. 21.
                Catechism, the, the corner stone of the country school in Holland, 267, n. 21.
                Catechisms, writing of, regarded as a sort of heavenly vocation, 178.
                Caterpillars, necklace of, to cure ague, 71.
                Cathartics of seventeenth century, 81, n. 5.
                Cathedral, scholars sustained in each, 257, n. 2.
                Cathedral Commission, First Report, 256, n. 1; 257, n. 2.
                Cattle might not be pastured in the common field on the Sabbath, 161; prayers of,
                    at midnight on Christmas, 117.
                Caulkin's History of New London, 213, m.; 271, n. 29.
                Caxton's Prologue to the Eneydos, 130, n. 3.
                Census, aversion to, 191; attempt to secure a, in New York defeated, 192.
                Century Magazine, April and October, 1894, 137, n. 19.
                Chalmer's Dictionary of Biography, 90, n. 18.
                Chamberlayne's State of England, 295, m.; 312, n. 18; 313, n. 19.
                Chamberlen, Dr. Peter, attempted to organize women practitioners of midwifery,
                    77.
                Characteristics, English, lost, 127; national, a result of controlling
                    traditions, 1.
                Chauncey's Cambridge, Mass., Almanac, 1663, 7, m.
                Chauncey, President, Commencement Sermon of, 163, m.; 265, n. 19
                Chevy Chase chanted to young people in the American woods, 119.
                Chief, generic English use of, 99.
                Child's Scottish and English Ballads, 119, M.; 138, n. 20.
                Children, harsh penalties against disobedient, 142; not suffered to play on the
                    Lord's Day, 161; of heathen parents damned for want of baptism, 174; pious and
                    significant  names for, 190; exclusion of, from
                    baptism, 291, n. 21; of the faithful included with their parents, 202, n. 23;
                    increase of number of, 229; shipped by the score as apprentices, 295.
                Chimes, ringing of, on Sunday as great an offense as parricide, 199, n. 19.
                Chinese medical theory of like cures like, 82, n. 7.
                Chinkapin, derivation of, 107.
                Chirurgeons, name given to rough practitioners, 74.
                Christ, denial of the divinity of, a capital offense under Catholic law in
                    Maryland, 149.
                Christ Church parish, Middlesex County, Virginia, manuscript records of, 262, n.
                    13.
                Christ's Hospital, founded in 1553, 257, n. 3.
                Christiani on comets and other phenomena, 38, n. 8.
                Christmas observance iniquitous, 154.
                Church, the first, in Massachusetts, organized to pacify the Lord's wrath, 150.
                Church attendance, difficulties of, in the Chesapeake region, 158.
                Church constitution, earliest New England, 205, n. 32.
                Church going required by Argall, 156.
                Church government, eccentricities of, 185.
                Church music, people opposed to, 188.
                Church officers, definition of, 205, n. 31.
                Church organ refused by Brattle Street Church, 189.
                Churches, parish, had their schools, 257, n. 1.
                Churchmen, Puritan and non-Puritan, cherished by church in Virginia, 184.
                Cinchona tree, medicinal value of bark of, 68; most important of all modern
                    remedies, 79.
                Cinderella known as Rose, Pink, and Piney in New England, 120.
                Circulation, la, et ses Detracteurs, in Revue Scientifique, 49, m.
                Circulation of the blood first expounded, 48; French king petitioned to prohibit
                    teaching of, 49; argued in master's thesis at Harvard 50; still a question at
                    Harvard in 1699, 50; ignorance of, in France, 53.
                Ciuile and Vnciuile Life, Roxburghe edition, 218, m.; 264, n. 15.
                Clap's, Roger, Memoir, 144, m.; 166.
                Class distinctions sharply marked, 194, n. 1.
                Classification of vertebrates, unscientific, 14, 15.
                Claypole's Manuscript Letters, 106, m.
                Clayton, John, botanist, observations of the foundation for the Flora Virginica, 92, n. 24; 133, n. 12.
                Clayton, John, Virginia parson, tells of use of bezoar stone as medicine, 66;
                    observes Virginia plants, 69; collected 300 plants used as remedies by the
                    Indians, 73; unflattering account of Virginia physicians given by, 75, 76;
                    author of papers in Transactions of Royal Society, 92, n. 24; to Royal Society,
                    93, n. 27; 103, m.; 106, m.; 130, n. 6; 133, n. 10.
                Clayton, Rev. John, in Force's Tracts, 54, m.; 76, m.
                Clayton, Rev. John, in Miscell. Curiosa, 100, m.
                Clayton, Rev. John, in Philosophical Transactions, 133, n. 10.
                Clergy, mistaken zeal of, in witchcraft delusion, 28; the new based their piety
                    on the supernatural, 30; had a fair acquaintance with medical knowledge, 76;
                    wore no surplices, 84.
                Clergymen, second generation of, in Virginia, 158; few in North Carolina in
                    eighteenth century, 175; severity of, due to an ideal of conduct, 180.
                Clothing, soft, not for humble people, 144.
                Coaches rare enough in America to be noticeable, 250, 251.
                Cockfighting a Christian amusement in Virginia and Maryland, 182; opinions
                    against, 204, n. 29; forbidden in East Jersey, 204, n. 30.
                Code of Massachusetts, 145, M.
                Coke, astute jurist, superstition of, 23.
                College at Henrico for Indian children, 220; 226.
                College ideals, 246; curriculum of Milton's time "an asinine feast of sow
                    thistles and brambles," 247.
                
                College of William and Mary, 222; 239; holidays allowed at, 241 founding of, 250;
                    richest institution of learning in America, 251; grammar school of, 260, n. 9;
                    charter of, 272, n. 31.
                Collegiate School at Charles City, 220; Virginia Company added to endowment of,
                    221.
                Collier's Ecclesiastical History, Lathbury's edition, 208, m.; 256, n. 1; 257, n.
                    3.
                Colonial Records of Pennsylvania, 203, n. 26.
                Colonies, existence of, depended on supply of slaves, 303, 304.
                Columna's, Fabius, Phytobasanos, 42, n. 12.
                Comet heralded blight of 1665, 7 of 1680, a call from heaven to Increase Mather,
                    8; alarmed Dutch on upper Hudson, 8; made English colonists talk about reforming
                    their morals, 39, n. 8; awakened discussion in Mexico, 39, n. 8.
                Comets and other portents, dread of, 6; prognostication by, 6; beliefs
                    concerning, 7.
                Comets, works on ominous character of, a considerable element in European
                    literature, 38, n. 8.
                Common fields, three, in primitive towns, 279; 282; animated scene in the, 279;
                    308, n. 6; in closure of, threatened, 280; 308, n. 7.
                Commons, who should have the? 277.
                "Commons" granted to a "hundred," 285.
                Communal plan adopted from New England to Delaware, 281.
                Commune, the town, very primitive, 277; what was this village? 278 in England in
                    seventeenth century, 279; in America, 280; 286; 309, n. 10; Plymouth and Salem
                    organized on the plan of the, 281; in Long Island and New Jersey, 285;
                    circumstances unfavorable to, 286.
                Complete Discovery of the State of Carolina, 132, n. 8.
                Complete Report of Royal Catholic Commission, 207, m.
                Condemning men that they might be sold, 301.
                Confectio Alcarmas, an Arabic remedy, ingredients of, 86, n. 14; 87, n. 14.
                Conjurations, minor, 117.
                Connecticut Records, 142, m.; 147, m; 148, m.; 151, m.; 154, m.; 195, n. 4; 282,
                    m.; 289, m.; 309, n. 10.
                Connecticut school of law of 1650, 228.
                Connecticut Valley Historical Society Collections, 188, m.
                Conscience, supremacy of the, 192-194; exercised on frivolous judgments, 193.
                Conspiracy of indentured servants in Virginia, 298.
                Contraries cured by contraries, 57.
                Convent schools and nunneries, young women sent to, 209.
                Conveyance, instruments of, 273; 307, n. 1.
                Convict servants, 300-302.
                Copernicanism made headway slowly, 3; stirred our modern wits, 4; preferred by
                    early Harvard mathematicians, 4; Bishop Godwin declared his belief in doctrine
                    of, 35, n. 1; a stone rejected of the builders, 36, n. 3.
                Corn, use of generic word, 103.
                Corn cob called "huss," 105.
                Corn husks, names for, 104.
                Cornishmen opposed the Reformation, 96; would not have Bible printed in English,
                    96.
                Cotton's, An, account of Bacon's rebellion in Virginia, 115; example of a
                    cultivated woman in Virginia, 271, n. 29.
                Cotton, John, comet at death of, 7; said Sunday began at sunset on Saturday, 160.
                Cotton's letter to Lord Say and Seal in Hutchinson's Massachusetts, 195-196, n.
                    5.
                Cotton's, John, Abstract of Laws, 141, m.; 145, m.; 147, m.; 195, n. 4.
                Cotton's, Grounds and Ends of the Baptisme of the Children, 197, n. 9; 202, n.
                    23.
                Cotton's, Holiness of Church Members, 172, m.
                Cotton's, Phenomena qudam Apocalyptica, Dedicatory Letter, 204, n. 28.
                Cotton's, Singing of Psalms a Gospel Ordinance, 186, m.
                Cotton's, Way of the Churches Cleared, 19, m.; 201, n. 21; 205, n. 31.
                Court and Country, The, 213, m.
                
                Court packed by Archbishop Abbot, 166.
                Cows bequeathed to churches and schools, 262, n. 13.
                Cox's, Marian Roalfe, Cinderella, 138, n. 20.
                Cranmer's Articles of Visitation, 20, m.
                Cranmer's Reformatio Legum cited in First Cathedral Report, 257, n. 2.
                Creatures, American, got second-hand names from real or supposed resemblances,
                    100.
                Creatures, half-human, 15.
                Criminal of quality beheaded not hanged in Maryland, 144.
                Crimp, the, and his doings, 295, 296.
                Crisscross (or Christ's cross) row, 212.
                Crocus metallorum, a universal cureall, 76; favorite Virginia remedy, 94, n. 30;
                    composition of, 94, n. 30.
                Cross of St. George obliterated from the colors of the trainbands, 151.
                Crouche, Ralphe, Jesuit schoolmaster in Maryland, 238.
                Culpepper's Commentary on the London Dispensatory, 93, n. 27.
                Culpepper's Physitian's Library, 87, n. 14.
                Culture, human, Puritanism made one great contribution to, 192.
                
                    Cunila Americana, name dittany settled on, 67.
                Customs, old English, revived, 265, n. 18.
                Dade's Almanac for 1684, 41, n. 12.
                Dafter for daughter, 134, n. 14.
                Damnation of non-elect infants, 175, 176.
                Danforth, Samuel, amends his classics, 196, n. 6.
                Danforth's, Samuel, Astronomical Description of the Late Comet, 35, n. 3; 38, n.
                    7.
                Danker's Journal, L. I. Hist. Soc., 151, m.; 215, m.; 235, m.; 298, m.
                Dante believed in migration of swallows, 44, n. 13.
                Deane's, J. W., Sketch of Wiggles-worth, 54, m.
                Declaration of the Colonie of Virginia, 220-221, m.
                Dedham Historical Register, 244, m.
                Dedham Records, 261, n. 9.
                Deed, whole vocabularies of conveyance in one, 273.
                Deerskin called match-core in Algonkin dialects, 106.
                Degrees, tests for, at Harvard, 248.
                Democracy, "God did not ordeyne as a fitt government," 195-196, n. 5.
                Demoniacal possession, belief in, unavoidable, 27.
                Demons, house-haunting, 25; New England, visible, 26; cast in molds supplied by
                    ancient tradition, 26.
                Denifle's, Heinrich, Die Universitten des Mittelalters bis 1400, 272, n. 31.
                Denton's Brief Description of New York, 310, n. 11.
                Devil, a whistling, 26.
                Devils, materialistic conception of, in chains, 24, 25; sometimes visible, 26.
                De Vries's Korte Historael, 132, n. 8.
                De Vries and Donne's, Geo., MS., Bodleian Library, 286, m.
                D'Ewe's Autobiography, 8, m.; 78, m; 206, n. 36; 217, m.; 218, m.; 241, m.; 243,
                    m.; 271, n. 30; 272, 30.
                De Witt's Historical Sketch of the Parochial School System of Holland preceding
                    Dunshee's History of the Dutch Church School in New York, 267, n. 21.
                Dexter's Congregationalism, 205, n. 31.
                Diabolism, waning belief in, 171.
                Digby, Sir Kenelm, made himself protagonist of sympathetic powder, 59; moral
                    theism of, 195, n. 2.
                Digby's, Sir Kenelm, Discourse on Sympathetic Powder, 86, n. 12.
                Digby's, Peripateticall Institutions, 17, m.; 41, n. 12.
                Disease, critical days in, 80, n. 3.
                Disputation, the means of becoming expert in Latin, 215; rage for, in the
                    schools, 260, n. 8.
                District school, modern, development of the, 237.
                Disturbances, diabolical, occurred early in all the colonies, 19.
                Dittany, same in name as ancient remedy Venus used in the neid, 66; Cretan and
                    white, potent to cure poison, 66; to remove foreign bodies, 67; to assist in
                    parturition, 67; virtues of, attached to pennyroyal, 67;  works on, too numerous for citation, 91, n. 22.
                Diuretics of the seventeenth century, 81, n. 5.
                Divine right of high birth and official position, 141.
                Dock, Christopher, the Pennsylvania Dutch teacher, 240.
                Doctrines, harsh, forged into formal creeds, 178.
                Documentary History of New York, iii, 8, m.; i, 108, m.
                Documents relating to New York, 192, m.
                Donne's MS., 296, m.
                Dorchester Records, 108, m.; 226, m.
                Douce's Illustrations of Shakespeare, 23, m.; 43, n. 12; 118, m.
                Drogheda, the pitiless slaughter of, 179.
                Drunken people rare, 164.
                Dryness favorable to understanding, 81, n. 4.
                Du Bartas, Anne Bradstreet wrote clever verses in imitation of, 123, 124.
                Ducking stool and pillory, 280.
                Dufresnoy's Recueil de Dissertations sur les Apparitions, 45, n. 15.
                Duke of York's Laws, 149, m.
                Durell's, John, View of the Government and Public Worship in the Reformed
                    Churches, 206, n. 33.
                Dutch alarmed by the comet of 1680, 8.
                Dutch Drawne to the Life, 205, n. 32.
                Dutch Manuscripts, Calendar of, 77, m.; 165, m.
                Duties, primary, to those above you, 141.
                Dying, directions for, 170.
                Early English Text Society, No. 32: Boke of Nurture, 15, m.; 41, n. 12; Vaughan's
                    Fifteen Directions for Health in, 82, n. 5.
                Earth, the, the center of universal motion for orthodox circles and colonial
                    preachers, 4.
                "East India School" at Charles City, Va., 220; 260, n. 9.
                Ecclesiastical impropriety a heinous sin, 184.
                Ecclesiastics more ruthless than laymen, 180.
                Eclipses and other unusual phenomena beheld with awe, 9.
                Eden, Governor, and Blackbeard the pirate, 175.
                Education generally neglected, 29; continuity of, 207; its beginning in the early
                    Christian centuries, 207; tradition and habit of, 209; cow-and-calf endowment
                    of, 226; religious motive for, 227, 228; popular, rough and scant, 231; legal
                    obligation to provide, imposed, 232; of the few transformed into popular, 237;
                    public, dominated by religion, 237.
                Education, higher, in three colonies only, 254; 261, n. 10.
                Education, university and secondary, first aim of, to raise up ministers, 225.
                Education, voluntary, among the Virginians, 263, n. 14.
                Educational decline, alarm at the, 229; inevitable and universal, 233.
                Edwards's, John, Cometomania, 7, m.
                Effingham's instructions, 263, n. 14.
                Egbert, account of austerities of, 255, n. 1.
                Egerton Papers, Abbot's Letters in, 166, m.
                Eggleston's, Edward, The Beginners of a Nation, 155, m.; 157, m.; 198, n. 14.
                Ehralter Ritterkrieg, 88, n. 16.
                Elder, a ruling, in the hierarchy, 185.
                Elements of human body, 50.
                Eliot, John, the Indian apostle, 120; translated Method of Phisicke into the
                    Indian tongue, 169; had a parish in Roxbury, 226; efforts of, to convert slaves,
                    305.
                Elliot, Rev. Jared, leading colonial writer on agriculture, 5, 6; respect of, for
                    the zodiac, 6.
                Ellis's Roxbury Town, 227, m.
                Elizabeth, Queen, remedies used in time of, 93, n. 25, n. 26; reminded of the
                    decay of learning, 210; reading Demosthenes with Roger Ascham, 242.
                Emigrants not intellectual contemporaries of Milton and Shakespeare, 2; between
                    1620 and 1650, bondsmen, 296.
                Emotions, strong, enfeebled become the wisdom of the age, 199, n. 17.
                Endowment, tenant and servant, for schools in Virginia, 221; 227.
                
                England before the Revolution of 1688 the mother country of the United States, 1.
                English-Americans in the first half of the seventeenth century, 1. m.
                English harvest, season for reaping English grains so called, 103.
                English language an insular speech, 96; cleft into dialects, 97; never more
                    effective than in hands of masters of the Elizabethan time, 97, 98; sudden
                    demand upon, 98; a misfit in wilderness of America, 99; adjusted itself to new
                    environment, 99; cherished prejudices against foreign words, 107; all changes of
                    usage accounted corruptions, 130, n. 4; left behind in the grammar schools, 215;
                    217; not taught in the schools until the fourteenth century, 257, n. 1.
                English studies drive out Latin from the free school, 236; intruders in a Latin
                    school, 261, n. 9.
                Ensign, the English, regarded as a gross idol, 151.
                Entail in the aristocratic colonies, 291; swept away by the Revolution, 293.
                Ent's Letter in Willis's Translation of Harvey's Works, 41, n. 12.
                Erysipelas cured by fowl freshly cut open, 87, n. 14.
                Ethics, theocratic, 145.
                Evelyn's Diary, 9, m.; 88, n. 15; 91, n. 21; 130, n. 3; 130, n. 4.
                Events, American, gave birth to American rhymes, 120.
                Exorcism, Spanish kings had gift of, 91, n. 21.
                Faillon's, Abb, La Colonie Franaise in Canada, 310, n. 11.
                Fairfax Seminary, parish records of seventeenth century in original MS. in, 234,
                    m.; 290, m.
                "Fall" for autumn now mainly American, 136, n. 19.
                Fanatics flourished in the colonies, 79.
                Farmer, the, could have no rights in common fields, 287.
                Farms, granting of, discontinued, 284; a mode of landholding, 286; independent,
                    driven to the wall, 287.
                Feline twang in London, 110.
                Felon, a high-born, favored, 144.
                Fence, a portion of the, assigned to each cultivator, 282; 309, n. 9.
                Ferule passes from seller to buyer of land in England, 276.
                Fetichism, numeral, may be traced to Galen, 80, n. 3.
                Fever, pestilential, due to persecution of dissenters, 150.
                Field meetings, 279.
                Finespun propositions regarding the nature of God, 170.
                Fitzstephen, 256, n. 1; 260, n. 8.
                Fleming, Sir D., Account Book of, 8, m.
                Flies, strange swarms of, 9.
                Flogging, an age of, 297.
                Folet's Molire et la Mdecin, 40, n. 10; 48, m.; 49, m.; 52, m.
                Folk-literature the higher forms of folk-lore, 118.
                Folk-superstitions, 117, 118.
                Folk-wisdom, bits of, transported to American shores, 118.
                Fonssagrives's Dictionnaire Encyclopdique des Sciences Mdicales, 88, n. 16.
                Food must not be prepared on the Sabbath, 161.
                Foote's Virginia, 263, n. 14.
                Force's, T. M., The Beginning, Progress, and Conclusion of Bacon's Rebellion,
                    8-9, m.; 201, n. 21.
                Forehead, blood to be drawn from middle vein of the, 82, n. 6.
                Forsyth's Antiquary's Portfolio, 76, m.; 95, n. 30; 131, n. 6.
                Forward, Rev. Justus, manuscript diary of, 132, n. 9; 261, n. 10; 269, n. 26.
                Franklin's, Benjamin, Poor Richard's Almanac, 110.
                Freedom, privileges of, sold, 294.
                Friday a marked day in regard to weather, 116.
                Friends of Germantown, antislavery protest of, 305.
                Frontier life dangerous to morals and manners, 264, n. 18.
                Frontiersmen find little time for learning, 233; knew no more of literature than
                    did the Greek heroes, 234.
                Fuller, the church historian, proverb used by, 114.
                Fuller's Good Thoughts for Bad Times, 203, n. 25.
                
                Fuller's Worthies, 261, n. 11.
                Furmity, an English word first applied to corn, 107.
                Galen not revered, 50; bloodletting in persons under fourteen or over seventy
                    forbidden by, 52; remedies in Virginia dating back to, 54; belief of, in virtues
                    of theriac and mithridate, 63.
                Galenic age, fossil words of the, 51.
                Galenism, simples but remains of, 51.
                Galenist belief of Virginia doctors, 94, n. 30.
                Galenists in England suspected of using spagyric methods, 54; numeral fetichism
                    traced to, 80, n. 3; strict, never sanctioned cures by sympathetic powders, 86,
                    n. 12.
                Galen's Art of Physic in medical libraries, 54.
                Galen's De Antidotis Epitomes, 63, m.
                Galen's De Dynamdiis, 82, n. 7.
                Galen's De Theriaca ad Pisonem, 63, m.
                Galileo imprisoned, 4; Bishop Godwin's belief in doctrine of, 35, n. 1.
                Gaming, objections urged against, 154.
                Gardiner, John Lyon, recorded difference in speech between two Long Island
                    communities, 108.
                Gascoin's powder of calcined crabs' claws, 94, n. 30.
                Gatford's Public Good without Private Interest, 20, m.; 153, m.; 184, m.
                Geber quoted in De Via Universali, 62, m.
                Geddes's History of the Administration of John De Witt, 267, n. 21.
                Generation, spontaneous, 9, 10; 41-42, n. 12.
                Gentleman Instructed, The, 40, n. 11.
                Gentleman's Magazine, Library of Popular Superstitions, 71, m.; of 1830, 171, m.;
                    of 1828, 270, n. 28.
                Gerarde on dittany, 67.
                Gerarde's History of Plants, 42, n. 12.
                Gerhard's, Johann, Panace Hermetic seu Medicin Universalis, 88, n. 16.
                Gilbert's, Sir Humphrey, Queen Elizabeth's Achademy, 94, n. 29.
                Girls not admitted to town schools, 244; candidates for wifehood at fourteen,
                    245.
                Glanvill, chaplain in ordinary to Charles II, 28; calls Addison and Montesquieu
                    nullibists, 46, n. 18.
                Glanvill's Sadducisismus Triumphatus, 28, m.
                Glauber's Chemistry, in medical libraries, 54; De Auri Tinctura sive Auro
                    Potabili, 61, m.; 88, n. 15, n. 16; 89, n. 18.
                Glover in Philosophical Transactions, Abridgment, 67, m.; 70, m.; to Royal
                    Society, 68, m.
                God of that age worse than the worshipers, 173.
                Godwin, Bishop, new theory of hibernation in the satellites, 13; his Voyage to
                    the Moon, 1638, 14, m.; suggests doctrine of gravity and declares himself on the
                    side of Copernicus and Galileo, 35, n. 1.
                Godwyn's, Morgan, Negro's and Indian's Advocate, 184, m.
                Gold, potable, a most valuable remedy, 60; universal remedy for human maladies,
                    61; administered in solid state, 61; triplex nature of, 62; the tincture of the
                    sun, 87, n. 15; allied with mercury, 88, n. 16; statute forbidding the making
                    of, repealed, 89, n. 18.
                Gomme's English Village Communities, 280, m.; 311, n. 13.
                Goose, barnacle, develop from the shellfish barnacle, 12; 42, n. 12; served as
                    fish on Fridays, 12.
                Gortonists should be hanged for constructive blasphemy, 180.
                Gospel Musick, or the Singing of David's Psalms, 186, m.
                Gowan's Wooley, 67, m.
                Grace for meals, 258, n. 4.
                Grammar schools. See SCHOOLS, FREE GRAMMAR.
                Grant's, Mrs., Memoirs of an American Lady, 271, n. 29.
                Grave, sick servant required to dig his own, 298.
                Green, Dr. S. A., private letter from, 108, m.; in Massachusetts Historical
                    Society Proceedings, 125, m.
                Green's Medicine in Massachusetts, 53, m.; 62, m.; 72, m.; 78, m.; 79, m.; 91, n.
                    21.
                Green's, Dr. S. A., Groton in Witchcraft Times, 27, m.
                
                Gronovius's Flora Virginica, 92, n. 24; 133, n. 12.
                Groton, case of hysteria in, 27; quaint uses of words in, 108, 109.
                Gullah dialect, 135, n. 16.
                Hakewill's Apologie, 15, m.; 17, m.; 36, n. 3; 37, n. 6; 41, n. 12; Deodati's
                    Letter in Appendix to, 53, m.; 54, m.; 174, m.; 197, n. 11.
                Hakewill's Declaration of the Providence of God, 126, m.
                Hale, Sir Matthew, jurist, superstition of, 23.
                Hall, Bishop, prose of, almost as lofty as Milton's verse, 17; relates death of a
                    philosopher for reasoning about thunderstorms, 18; ascribes thunderbolts to good
                    angels, 19; on evil spirits, 24; opinion of cures without contaction, 60.
                Halle, John, in preface to Lanfranke's Chirurgerie, 93, n. 29.
                Halliwell's English Dialects, 135-136, n. 19.
                Hall's Cases of Conscience, 24, m.; citing Thesaurum Exorcismorum, 57, m.; 60, m.
                Hall's Invisible World, 17, m.; 18, m.
                Hall's Satires, 37, n. 6; 114; 258, n. 3.
                Hammond's Leah and Rachel, 158, m.
                Hanson's Old Kent, 198, n. 16.
                Harleian Miscellany, 13, m.; 116, m.; 181, m.; 204, n. 29; 267, n. 21; 312, n.
                    17.
                Harrison's Description of Britaine, in Holinshed, 15, m.; 42, n. 12; 116, m.;
                    117, m.; 210, m.; 268, n. 25; 294, m.
                Hartford, actions of gentle devil in, 25.
                Hartwell, Blair and Chilton's Present State of Virginia, 224, m.; 272, n. 31.
                Harvard, John, legacy of, for Harvard College, 247; library a part of, 121;
                    source of inspiration of, 268, n. 23.
                Harvard College, hospitable to new opinions, 50; student at, beaten for
                    blasphemy, 148; attempt to compel conversation in Latin at, failed, 215; first
                    graduate of, an Indian, 226; contribution for, from the sale of indigent
                    children, 227; peck of corn from each family for, 229; graduates of, finding
                    benefices in England, 229; ran down and kicked about as a political football,
                    235; younger pupils gave trouble at, 236; hours for meals at, 240; master at,
                    dismissed for barbarous punishment of his usher, 243; older students at, not to
                    be beaten, 244; foundation of, 247; poor scholars prominent in early appeals
                    for, 260, n. 9.
                Harvard students placed in catalogue according to social position, 143; unable to
                    speak Latin in 1689, 259, n. 7.
                Harvey, William, discovered that every animal is from an egg, 41, n. 12;
                    expounded to his students the circulation of the blood, 48; his physiology not
                    accepted by men over forty, 48; trouble with Dr. Pott in Virginia, 74;
                    investigations of, broadened the field of human thought, 79; reverence for
                    tradition shown by, 80, n. 1; Life of, by Willis, 48, m.
                Harvey's Exercitatio de Motu Cordis, 48, m.
                Harvey's Prelectiones Anatomise Universalis, 48, m.; 259, n. 6.
                Hatfield House Manuscripts, 66, m.; 87, n. 14; 114, m.
                Hawkins, Jane, suspected of familiarity with the devil, 19.
                Hazard State Papers, 201, n. 21.
                Health drinking deemed abominable, 153; law against, evaded, 196, n. 8; when
                    introduced into England, 196, n. 8.
                Heat favorable to imagination, 81, n. 4.
                Heathen parents, no room for salvation of infants of, 200, n. 21.
                Hell, the Puritan's, 173; the fire of, how fed, 174.
                Henderson's School of Salernum, 82, n. 7; 95. n. 30.
                Hening's Statutes, 221, m.; 249, m.; 250, m.; 262, n. 14.
                Herbs, fancied resemblance between American and European, 67; names of European
                    and their virtues given to American, 68; supposed to have pharmaceutical value,
                    68.
                Hermetic medicine, doctrine of, held by Winthrop the younger, 55.
                
                Hibernation of migratory birds, 13; in the satellites, 13.
                Hickory, derivation of, 107; nut called walnut, 133, n. 12.
                Hippocrates used venesection with caution, 52.
                Hippocrates, Aphorisms of, 50, m.; 52, m.; 80, n. 3; 83, n. 7.
                "Hired man" and "hired girl," 113.
                Histoire des Filibustiers, 149, m.
                Historical Manuscript Commission. See MANUSCRIPT COMMISSION.
                Hit, for it, court English in Elizabeth's time, 112.
                Holiness made merely relative, 172.
                Holinshed, 15, m.; 257, n. 1; 312, n. 17.
                Holland, school system in, 232.
                Holy Club of Oxford, 167.
                Home-lot right, 279; 282.
                Hominy, derivation of, 105.
                Homocentric notions of the world, 56.
                Hone's Every Day Book, quoting London Times, 46, n. 17.
                Hooker, in Connecticut, made government auxiliary of the churches, 147; paper of,
                    to prove the ensign harmless, 151; held that Sunday began at sunset on Saturday,
                    160.
                Hooker's Summe of Church Discipline, 201, n. 21.
                Hornbooks, Latin in, 209; described, 212.
                Horoscopes, mysteries of, little known, 6.
                Horse's mane tangled by witches, 118.
                Hoskyns's Systems of Land Tenure, 307, n. 1.
                Hours, school, 239, 240; in English schools, 269, n. 26.
                House, delivery of possession of, 276.
                Houses haunted, 25, m.
                Howard's Collection of Letters, 136, n. 19.
                Howell, James, on witches, 21, 22.
                Howell's Familiar Letters, 4, m.; 21, m.; 53, m.; 86, n. 12; 87, n. 14; 126, m.;
                    258, n. 3.
                Huarte's, Juan, Examen de Ingenios para las Sciencias, 81, n. 4.
                Hubbard's Massachusetts, 206, n. 34.
                Hull, John, Diary of, 103, m.; 205, n. 31.
                Humanity made slight progress in seventeenth century, 307.
                Humble Advice of the Assembly of Divines concerning a Confession of Faith, The,
                    145; 200, n. 20.
                Humors of human body congealed by Saturn, 37, n. 4; relation of each one to
                    elements, 50; qualities of, 51; mixtures and wrong doings of, 51, 52; black,
                    cured by milk, 57; vital products of putrid, 40, n. 11.
                Hundred, the, and the borough, 285.
                Hunter, Governor of New York, census taken by, 192.
                Husband's Authority Unveiled, The, 142, m.
                Husk, word used for bran, 132-133, n. 10.
                Hutchinson, Goodman, complained of prisoners for tormenting his wife, 32.
                Hutchinson, Mrs., doctress, services of, freely given, 78.
                Hutchinson Papers, 19, m.; 154, m.
                Hutchinson's, Francis, Historical Essay on Witchcraft, 21, m.; 23, m.; 46, n. 17;
                    the best, 47, n. 20.
                Hypnotism, not recognized as due to natural causes, 26; girls at Salem show
                    symptoms of, 30.
                Hysteria, not recognized as due to natural causes, 26; case of, in Groton, Mass.,
                    27; girls at Salem show symptoms of, 30.
                Idol called a mawmet (Mahomet), 101.
                Idolatry, scruples about, 150, 151.
                Illiteracy in the colonies, 235.
                Imagination set on edge by theological speculation, 19.
                Immigration, Puritan, ceased about 1640, 229.
                Indian college at Henrico, benefactors for, 220.
                Indian corn, names for, 102; staple food product of colonists, 104.
                "Indian" doctors plying trade, 73.
                Indian harvest, later ingathering of maize so called, 103.
                Indian massacre of 1622 attributed to sins in the colony, 149.
                Indian remedies overestimated, 73.
                Indian summer, name of, taken from Indian harvest, 104.
                Indian words unhandy vehicles for gossiping, 106, 107.
                
                Indians, American, doctrine of like cures like part of medical theory of 82, n.
                    7; cured wounds by sucking, 93, n. 28; cauterized with punk instead of cupping,
                    93, n. 28.
                Indians, captive, sold into slavery in Massachusetts, 306.
                Infants, damnation of unbaptized, 174; 176; 208; foredoomed, argue their case at
                    the day of doom, 176; damned for Adam's sin, 177; elect, are saved by faith,
                    202, n. 23; Quakerism denied damnation of, 203, n. 26.
                Ingle's Letter in Historical Collections relating to the Colonial Church, 260, n.
                    9.
                Inheritance in the colonies, 291-293.
                Inkhorne termes, 129, n. 2.
                Instruction, wholly secular, unknown, 238.
                Interest, scruple against taking, 191.
                Ireland, renowned monasteries of, 208; called Jack's Land, 289.
                Irish rebels, curses on the, 179.
                Isensee's Geschichte der Medecin, 49, m.
                Italy, fashions of all sorts from, 103.
                Jack's Land, 289.
                Jag, a fraction of a wagon load, 111.
                James's, King, Demonology, 45, n. 17.
                James, the pirate, captured transport ships, 299.
                Jeffreys, George, and the Mayor of Bristol, 301.
                Jesuit missionaries learned medicinal value of cinchona, 68.
                Jesuit Relations, Burrow's reprint of, 131, n. 7.
                Jewell, Bishop, works of, 200, n. 21.
                Jingle, the familiar mnemonic "thirty days hath September," antiquity of, 116,
                    117.
                Jones's, Hugh, Present State of Virginia, 127, m.; 184, m.; 223, m.; 251, m.;
                    263, n. 14.
                Johnson's Dictionary, 130, n. 6.
                Johnson's Ecclesiastical Laws, 255-256, n. 1.
                Johnson's Higher Education in Rhode Island, 239, m.
                Johnson's Old Maryland Manors, 238, m.; 286, m.; 289, m.
                Jonson's, Ben, Alchemist, 40, n. 11; 151, m.
                Jonson's, Ben, Gypsies, 169, m.
                Josselyn on spontaneous generation, 10; on marvelous occurrences, 16; "God
                    created nothing in vain," 68; an assiduous herb gatherer, 69; list of American
                    remedies by, 70; description of nightingales in New England, 100; on cormorants,
                    182.
                Josselyn's Chron. Obs., 7, m.
                Josselyn's Two Voyages, 64, m.; 68, m.; 70, m.; 92, n. 25.
                Journal of Sarah Eve, 117, m.
                Judus's, Philo, Creation of the World, 81, n. 3.
                Judaism and the Puritan conscience, 160, 161.
                Judd's Hadley, 64, m.; 113, m.; 143, m.; 154, m.; 237, m.; 244, m.; 271, n. 29.
                Jusseraud's English Wayfaring Life, 260, n. 9.
                Juvenis's, Joannes, De Medicamentis Bezoardicis, 64, m.; 90, n. 20.
                Kalm's Travels, 44, n. 13; 69; 135, n. 18.
                Kendall, An order touchinge the Free School in, 211, m.
                Kepler developed foundations of modern astronomy, 3; followed Copernicus, 4; an
                    astrologer, 5.
                Kepler's De Cometis, 4, m.; 7, m.; 38, n. 8.
                Kepler's Harmonicus Mundi, 4, m.
                Kilty's Landholder's Assistant, 286, m.
                King, submission to, dodged by Cotton, 146.
                King's Majesties Declaration to his Subjects, The, 197, n. 12.
                King's, Henry, Sermon at St. Paul's, 37, n. 6.
                Knap, Elizabeth, contortions and ravings of, 27; susceptible to hypnotic
                    influence, 27.
                Knife sticking in the floor a lucky sign, 117.
                Knight's Life of Colet, 240, m.; 241, m.; 269, n. 26.
                Knight's Questio Quodlibetica, 206, n. 36.
                Knox's, John, system of schools for Scotland, 232.
                Knig's, Emanuel, Regnum Animale, 71, m.; 85, n. 10; 93, n. 27.
                
                Labadist's Journal, 70.
                Laborers, English, bound themselves to service, 297.
                Labors ceased every Saturday at three o'clock, 161.
                Laing, James, contempt of, for vulgar tongues, 129, n. 1.
                Lambert's History of New Haven and Milford, 9, m.; 73, m.; 161, m.; 162, m.
                Land, tracts of, reserved for the support of churches and local schools, 261, n.
                    11; little, held through feudal tenure, 274; communal holding of, primitive,
                    277; disposal of, by the town in New England, 278; distribution of, 282;
                    processioning of, 291; 309, n. 8; held after the tenure of East Greenwich, 292.
                Land and labor in the early colonies, 273.
                Land law, one trait of, survived from the middle ages, 275; 307, n. 3.
                Land-law terms, a jargon of, in England, 273; 307, n. 1.
                Land laws held to simplicity, 274.
                Land tenure in Massachusetts and New England, 292.
                Land warrants passed as current money, 276.
                Landholding the direct ownership of the soil, 275.
                Landholdings, development of large, in Virginia, 224.
                Landlord must give security for tenant, 289.
                Lane to Walsingham, 102, m.
                Language, enriching of the, with Latin and French terms inevitable, 129, n. 2.
                Latham's Life of Sydenham, 68, m.
                Latin, barbarous medival, used in records, 209; a gentleman's accomplishment,
                    222; all ministers should know, 225; few students of, 230; each church in
                    Scotland to have a schoolmaster to teach, 232; crowded out by English studies,
                    236; widely diffused knowledge of, in middle ages, 257, n. 1; constant use of,
                    obligatory in English universities, 259, n. 7; colloquial use of, never found
                    lodgment in America, 259, n. 7.
                Latin schools, founding of, 209; 211; small need of, by tobacco planters, 222.
                Latin verses, the producing of, 217.
                Laud's Conference with Fisher, 175, m.
                Laws called liberties in Massachusetts, 274; earliest were simple and direct,
                    274.
                Lawyers forbidden in the colonial courts, 273; 307, n. 2; but one among the
                    Dutch, 274.
                Leaming and Spicer's Grants and Ceremonies of New Jersey, 309, n. 8.
                Learned, the, devoured the atrocious stories of Pliny, 16.
                Lechford's Plaine Dealing, 201, n. 21; 204, n. 31.
                Lee, Mary, hanged as witch at sea, 20.
                Lemnius's, Levinus, De Miraculis Occultis Natur, 40, n. 11; 61, m.; 89, n. 16.
                Leniency protested against, 180.
                Lents, keeping of three, a year, 208.
                Le Page du Pratz's Histoire de la Louisaine, 131, n. 6.
                Lescarbot's La Conversion des Savvages, 131, n. 7.
                Letters of Missionaries, 20, m.
                Lewis's Lynn, 189, m.
                Libraries, typical, of the scholar, 123.
                Library, a Virginia, of five volumes, 122.
                Library, making a, by transcription, 140, n. 25.
                Library of All Faith's Parish, 138, n. 21.
                Lilly's Grammar, 215.
                Lincoln's Worcester, 235, m.; 237, m.
                Liruelo's, P., Reprouacion de las Superstitiones, 21, m.
                Literature, American, 123.
                Livermore's Republic of New Haven, Town Records in, 236, m.
                Livery of seizin, 275; 307, n. 3; went out of use, 276.
                Lives of the Norths, 219, m.; 247, m.
                Livingston and Smith's Laws of New York, 309, n. 8.
                Local feeling had the intensity of patriotism in England, 108.
                Logic the main study in all higher institutions, 246.
                London Dispensatory, 86-87, n. 14; 94, n. 30.
                Longfellow's Evangeline, 71, m.
                Lord Bateman, Scottish-English ballad of, became American, 119.
                Lorrayne, physician of Faculty of Montpellier, 86, n. 14; 87, n. 14.
                
                Lovell's History of Animals and Minerals, 43, n. 12; 71, m.; 85, n. 10.
                Lowly, justice demanded for the, in the name of religion, 195, n. 1.
                Ludwell MSS., 241, m.
                Luther, Martin, first Protestant example of extreme faith in witchcraft, 45, n.
                    16.
                Magistrate, a, sentenced his own daughter to the whipping-post, 193.
                Magistrates, criticism of, little less than blasphemy, 144; outvoted by
                    representatives of the towns, 284.
                Magnetism, operation of weapon ointment and powder of sympathy attributed to, 59.
                Maize called Saracen corn, 102, 103; only a book word in America to-day, 103;
                    Indian names for dishes prepared from, 105; Pliny's description of millet
                    intended for, 131, n. 7; confused with buckwheat, 131, n. 7.
                Malgaine's Introduction to Par's works, 82, n. 7; 94, n. 29; 95, n. 30.
                Manifesto filosofico contra los Cometas, by Sigurenza y Gorgora, opposed popular
                    dread, 39, n. 8.
                Manners, reformation of, by appeal to law, 167.
                Manors entailed in England, 286; parts of mere village communities, 286.
                Manuscript Book of Instructions, 103, m.
                Manuscript Commission, 78, m.; 82, n. 6; 211, m.; 256, n. 1; 261, n. 9; 267, n.
                    21.
                Manuscript county records in Virginia State Library, 54, m.
                Manuscripts, transcripts of printed books, 128.
                Maranta's De Theriaca et Mithridatio, 64, m.; 83, n. 7.
                Marriage at the hands of clerks, 184.
                Marsden's Early Puritans, 139, n. 21.
                Marshall's Rural Economy, 278; 308, n. 5.
                Maryland, reading and writing hardly known in parts of, 238; a "school for
                    humanities" begun in, 238; laws passed for promoting Latin free schools in, 239.
                Maryland Archives, 144, m.; 164, m.; 262, n. 11.
                Maryland Council Proceedings, 20, m.
                Maryland Historical Society Publications, No. 9, 238, m.
                Massachusetts, Constitution of, framed in 1641, 274.
                Massachusetts Archives, MS. Invoice in, 212, m.
                Massachusetts General Court undertook to send kidnapped negroes back to Africa,
                    305.
                Massachusetts Historical Collections, vol. i, 45, n. 14; 145, m.; vol. iii, 100,
                    m.; vol. iv, 190, m.; vol. vi, 78, m.; 140, n. 25; 248, m.
                Massachusetts Historical Society Proceedings, 58, m.; Bennett MS. in, 164, m.;
                    Stoughton's Letter in, 151, m.
                Massachusetts law of 1641 against "crueltie," 182.
                Massachusetts Liberties, 144, m.
                Massachusetts Records, 19, m.; 20, m.; 142, m.; 150, m.; 151, m.; 154, m.; 160,
                    m,; 196, n. 8; 225, m.; 227, m.; 229, m.
                Masson's Life of Milton, 129, n. 2; 246, m.
                Master's degree at Harvard, subjects for, 36, n. 3; 50, m.
                Mather, Cotton, on existence of unseen satellite, 14; ascribes thunderbolts to
                    work of devils, 19; shout of victory amid horrors at Salem, 28; never
                    acknowledged himself wrong, 34; never forgiven for actions during Salem
                    witchcraft, 34; had great hopes of what good angels might do for him, 45, n. 15;
                    on Wait Winthrop as a doctor, 93, n. 27.
                Mather's, Cotton, Magnalia, 189, m.; 196, n. 6; 203, n. 25.
                Mather's, Memorable Providences Relating to Witchcraft and Possessions, 30.
                Mather's, Ornaments for the Daughters of Zion, 95, n. 31.
                Mather's, Ratio Discipline, 152, m.; 189, m.; 206, n. 33.
                Mather, Increase, relish of, for the supernatural and sensational, 7, 8;
                    conception of devils in chains, 24; Puritan ramshorn of, 28; bishop by brevet of
                    New England, 30; books of, on eclipses, 30.
                
                Mather's, Increase, Cases of Conscience, 26, m.
                Mather's, Heaven's Alarm to the World, 8.
                Mather's, Kometographia, 8.
                Mather's, Latter Sign Discoursed of, 8.
                Mather's, Meditations on the Sanctification of the Lord's Day, 161, m.
                Mather's, Remarkable Providences, 18, m.; 19, m.; 23, m.; 24, m.; 25, m.; 28, m.;
                    30; 41, n. 12; 46, n. 17; 92-93, n. 25; 105, m.; 136, n. 19.
                Matthus's, Antonius, De Criminibus, 196, n. 7.
                Meals in the reigns of Elizabeth and James, 268, n. 25.
                Medical professors, one of the most famous in Europe a woman, 78.
                Medical students in Massachusetts, lack of knowledge in, 79.
                Medical theory expansive, 66.
                Medical tradition, persistence of, 66.
                Medicinal virtue attributed to precious and rare things, 60.
                Medicine, dabblers in, 53; mystical tendency of, 58; in hands of clergy and
                    women, 76; decline of colonial, 78; modern scientific born in seventeenth
                    century, 79.
                Medicines administered when moon was in proper sign, 5; 36, n. 4; to be given in
                    odd numbers, 81, n. 3.
                Meehan's Monthly on American dittany, 67, m.
                Meeting, a young man whipped for not going to, on Sunday, 162.
                Meeting-house substituted for church, 189.
                Meeting-houses, seats in New England, "dignified," 143.
                Melville, Andrew, in McCrie's Life of Knox, 266, n. 21.
                Men of the woods, 127.
                Mental furniture, antique, of the emigrants, 117.
                Mercurial remedies, 60; 88, n. 16.
                Merrymount, Maypole at, cut down, 153.
                Mesmerism not recognized as due to natural causes, 26.
                Michaelmas Protestantized into Miheltide, 151.
                Midwife officially appointed in New Amsterdam, 77.
                Milk for Babes, in Prince Library, Boston, 161, m.
                Milton, John, a Puritan at the time of Cotton, 2; artistic passion of, 3; sonnet
                    of, on Kingship of God, 17; classic dignity of his evil angels, 22; beaten by
                    his tutor at Cambridge, 244; disappointed in the university, 246; his opinion of
                    universities, 247.
                Milton's University Oration, 41, n. 12.
                Minister, the one educated man in the parish in New England, 287; dominance of,
                    over the unlettered complete, 287.
                Ministers act as soothsayers and play showmen of monstrous births, 16; two, in
                    each church in New England, 185; all, should know Latin, 225; want of able, in
                    Virginia, 249.
                Mitchell's Past in the Present, 86, n. 13.
                Mithridate, belief in virtues of, 63.
                Mithridates discovered a universal antidote, 63.
                Moisture essential to memory, 81, n. 4.
                Molire's Malade Imaginaire, 52, m.; 80, n. 3.
                Molire's Mdecin Malgr Lui, 87, n. 14.
                Monarchy and aristocracy both approved in Scripture, 196, n. 5.
                Monardes, first Spanish edition of, 92, n. 23; English edition, 65, m.; on
                    bloodstone, 71, m.; 90, n. 20; 92, n. 23.
                Monasteries, suppression of the, nearly abolished the education of the times,
                    210; the British, Irish, and Saxon, 255, n. 1; perfect organization of the
                    Catholic, 255, n. 1.
                Monmouth's rebellion, sale of the rebels of, 301.
                Monstrosities and marvels noted by members of the Royal Society, 16.
                Montesquieu's Esprit des Lois, 46, n. 18.
                Months, scruples against ordinary names of, 152.
                Moon, influence of the, 5, 6; 37, n. 5, n. 6; 130, n. 3; winter home of migratory
                    birds, 14.
                Moral History of Frugality, 165, m.
                Moral law made moral by divine command, 145.
                Moral passion of the present age, 141.
                Morality, ideal of, abrogated, 172.
                Morton, Charles, elaborated theory of hibernation in the satellites, 13, 14;  in Harleian Miscellany, 13, m.; vice president of
                    Harvard, 45, n. 14; lectures on philosophy, 45, n.
                Morton's New English Canaan, 133, n. 11.
                Movertus, first authoritative writer on insects in England, 39, n. 10; 40, n. 11.
                Mugwump, an honorary title of leadership, 107.
                Mulcaster on perfumes, 93, n. 26, advocated flogging, 242.
                Mulcaster's Positions, 188, m.; 210, m.; 240, m.; 257, n. 1; 258, n. 3; 270-271,
                    n. 29.
                Muller's Science of Language, 43, n. 12.
                Music, obsolescence of, in New England, 188.
                Music books, scruple against using, in service, 187.
                Muskrat, other names for, 105, 106.
                Mystic philosophy, salt, mercury, and sulphur the three elements in, 83, n. 7.
                Mythology, picturesque, of seventeenth century, 18.
                Names, pagan, giving of, to children opposed, 190; Hebrew, for children, 191;
                    nouns, verbs, and participles used as, 191.
                Nation, The, April 22, 1897, 264, n. 16.
                Natives prohibited from powwowing, 153.
                Necromancer "blown up" in Boston Harbor, 19.
                Negro, philanthropic exertion for, at first wholly religious, 304.
                Negro speech as various as the tribes, III; words in modern dialect of Surrey,
                    112; preserved the worst in seventeenth century English, 112.
                Negroes the cursed descendants of Cain, 303; confounded with the Moors, 303;
                    bondage of, justified by their heathen condition, 304.
                Neill's Educational Development of Virginia, 221, m.
                Neill's Virginia Vetusta, 262, n. II.
                New Amsterdam, impossible to enforce a strict Sabbath in, 165.
                Newbury, actions of a spirit in, 25.
                New England almanac for 1649, unique copy of, in New York Public Library, 39, n.
                    9.
                New England Chronicle, 188, m.
                New England cradled in religious enthusiasms, 159; benevolence of, organized and
                    systematic, 288.
                New England Primer, Introduction to Ford's reprint of, 213, m.
                New England Psalm Book, preface to, 186, m.; 188; 202, n. 27; the so-called "Bay
                    Psalm Book," 188, m.
                New England Synod of 1679, 205, n. 31.
                New-Englander, the, always a member of a community, and therefore civilized, 283;
                    close-fisted and shrewd, 288; schooled in the town debates, 288.
                New English Dictionary, 212, m.
                Newgate birds shipped to America, 300.
                New Haven Colony Records, 226, m.; 268, n. 24.
                Newman's Rehoboth, 308, n. 5.
                Newport the great center of the Guinea trade, 306.
                Newton, Sir Isaac, in praise of Boyle's reticence, 89, n. 18.
                New York Historical Collections, 261, n. 11.
                New York Society Library, remains of Winthrop's library in, 121.
                Nichol's English Poor Law, 193, m.
                Nichol's Poor Laws, 312, n. 17.
                Nightingale, various birds so named, 100, 101.
                Niles's French and Indian Wars, 78.
                North and South, contrast between, 286; 288.
                Norton, John, the Massachusetts Calvin, 145.
                Norton's, Prof. C. E., Life of Anne Bradstreet, 139, n. 23.
                Notes and Queries, vol. vi, 23, m.
                Nowell's, Alexander, Cambridge Almanac, 6, m.; 36, n. 3; 38, n. 7.
                Noyes's, James, The Temple Measured, 204, n. 31.
                Nug Antiqu, 189, m.
                Numeration, passion for, emigrated to America, 81, n. 3.
                Observation, habit of shrewd, compelled by exigent wants, 12.
                O'Callaghan's History of New Netherlands, 77 m.; 139, n. 21.
                
                O'Callaghan's Laws of New Netherlands, 165.
                Offenses, trifling, magnified, 153, m.
                Olaus, Magnus, book of unbelievable things in the sixteenth century by, 13; 43,
                    n. 13.
                Oliver, Mrs., publicly whipped for reproaching Massachusetts magistrates, 144.
                Opinions, heretical, punished with death, 148, 149.
                Ordeal by water used in trial of witches, 45, n. 17.
                Ord's Life of Wilson, 44, n. 13.
                Ordronneaux's Code of Health, 95, n. 31.
                Organs, scarcity of, 188.
                Ovid on life from putrefaction, quoted by later writers, 10.
                Owen to E. Harley, 78, m.
                Oysters not to be used in months without the letter r, 116.
                Paganism, long-distance, 152.
                Pagans, Christians dominated, by right divine, 153.
                Palingenesis rejected by Rolfink, 41, n. 12.
                Palmer's Island, fruitless endeavor to plant an academy upon, 262, n. 11.
                Paracelsian books, shelf neighbors of Harvey and Culpepper, 54.
                Paracelsian school, writers of, revised old doctrine of signatures, 55; Angelus
                    Sala a member of the, 88, n. 16.
                Paracelsus, doctor of fire, 53; doctrine of signatures ascribed to, 55; cured
                    like by like, 56; 83, n. 7; used St. John's-wort to drive away phantasms, 57;
                    black powder of, 85, n. 10.
                Paracelsus's De Cutis Apertionibus, 56, m.; 83, n. 7.
                Paracelsus's De Naturalibus Rebus, 84, n. 8.
                Paracelsus's Opera, 57, m.
                Paradise Lost largely history to contemporary readers, 18.
                Parasites bred from the body on which they lived, 11; sign of misery and scourge
                    of God, 40, n. 11.
                Par, Ambroise, drew seven pounds of blood from a man in four days, 53; works of,
                    46, n. 19; 53, m.; 86, n. 13; 91, n. 20, n. 22; denounced weapon ointment, 86,
                    n. 13.
                Par's, Ambroise, Surgery, 54.
                Parish, the, of primary importance, 283.
                Parish vestry, the, in Virginia and the South, 290; transacts all town or county
                    business, 290.
                Parker, Chief-Justice, declaration of, against swimming witches, 46, n. 17.
                Parsons, tavern-haunting, put up with, 175.
                Pastorate, the double, 185; in Holland, 205, n. 32; gone to decay, 205, n. 31.
                Paulet, Robert, sent to Virginia as parson, esteemed as physician, 76.
                Peacham's Compleat Gentleman, 1660, account of system of Ptolemy in, 35, n. 1; on
                    members of medical profession, 94, n. 39; 139, n. 23; 243, m.; edition of 1661,
                    141, m.
                Peacock pies concocted from turkey, 102.
                Peasley, Henry, founds a free school in Virginia, 221.
                Pedro porco, sold for price of pearls, 65; 90, n. 20.
                Penhallow on eastern Indian wars, 198, n. 15.
                Penmanship, elaborate, taught, 218.
                Penn, William, bought condemned rebels, 302; concerned for the souls of the
                    blacks, 305.
                Pennypacker's Historical and Biographical Sketches, 102, m.; 240, m.
                Pennyroyal, American, virtues of dittany transferred to, 67; poisonous to
                    rattlesnakes, 67.
                Perfumes, value of, for sickness, 93, n. 26.
                Perkins's Cases of Conscience, 144, m.; 204, n. 29.
                Perry's Collections, Virginia, 223, m.
                Peruvian bark in malarial diseases, 69.
                Pews, exclusive, of the great families, 143.
                Pharisaism, unbearable burden of, 162; stage in human progress, 194.
                Pharmacopias ignored medicines of the alchemists and Rosicrucians, 63; loathsome
                    substances found in, 72; for use of animal substances consult, 93, n. 27.
                Phlegm, curious notions about, 80, n. 2.
                
                Physic in the hands of old women and the clergy, 95, n. 30.,
                Pictet's Tableau des tats Unis, 194, n. 1.
                Piers Ploughman, prologus, 308, n. 6.
                Pigeons, flights of, 9; 14; 39, n. 9; applied to draw out poison, 87, n. 14.
                Pine cones, green, remove wrinkles, 70.
                Pioneers have no time to invent, 232.
                Planter, the Southern, independence of the, 287; sons of, averse to commerce,
                    288.
                Plants, American, popular use of, 69; opinions regarding medicinal value of, 92,
                    n. 23.
                Plato's Minos, 196, n. 7.
                Pleasure in the disasters of opponents, 166.
                Pliny, "the greatest gull of antiquity," 16.
                Pliny's Histori de Gentibus Septrionalibus, 13, m.
                Plymouth Records, 150, m.; 198, n. 15.
                Pocahontas, title of princess given to, 99.
                Pome Sur l'lixir Royal, 84, n. 8.
                Politeness the virtue of childhood, 214; rules of, in verse, 214.
                Politics, platform of, found by Cotton in the Scriptures, 147.
                Poole's Dialect of Forth and Bargy, 110, m.
                Poor, how to be rid of the, the problem of England, 293; sent a-wandering, 294.
                Population in 1650, 2.
                Porcupine, viscera of, searched for bezoar stones, 65; 90, n. 20.
                Porta's, John Baptist, Magia Naturalis, 10, m.; 40, n. 10; 43, n. 12; 85, n. 11
                Possession, picturesque delivery of, 275; 307, n. 3; 308, n. 4.
                Pott, Dr., sent to Virginia, 53; methods of, 54 only physician in Virginia, 74.
                Powder, sympathetic, a cure of great notoriety, 59; stopped hmorrhages, 59; 86,
                    n. 12; much esteemed, 63; called Zaphygian salt, 86, n. 12.
                Prat's, Joseph, Order of Orthography, 134, n. 14.
                Pratt, a surgeon of Cambridge, saved from banishment, 74.
                Preachers, education of, a matter of primary importance in New England, 225.
                Preaching a sacrament above sacraments to the Puritan mind, 225.
                Price, Miss S. F., technical information regarding dittany received from, 91, n.
                    22.
                Primer, the New England, 213.
                Primer, the third implement of learning, 213.
                Primitive science, ideas of, 63.
                Primogeniture in the aristocratic colonies, 291; in Massachusetts and
                    Pennsylvania, 292; swept away by the Revolution, 293.
                Primrose, Dr., adversary of Harvey, 48; his voice the voice of the age, 48.
                Prince's Annals, October 15, 1629, 189, m.
                Printing presses, utter prohibition of, 263, n. 14.
                Prisoners, at Salem, charged with torturing children, 32; cast into dungeons,
                    fettered, and tortured, 32; released by proclamation of the governor, 34.
                Processioning of land, 291; 309, n. 8.
                Productions, literary, in the first generation belong to English letters, 124.
                Prognostication by comets, 6.
                Pronunciation, awkward, of the pioneer scribe, 234.
                Property, pagan had no right to such, as a Christian might have use for, 153.
                Proverbial philosophy, our, dates from the time when epigrams were used, 115.
                Proverbs the accepted coin of popular wisdom, 114; abounded in communities where
                    utterance was trammeled, 115; express smothered political passion, 116.
                Psalm-singing, obligatory, 178; scruples about, 186; decay of, 187; "morall" and
                    of perpetual obligation, 188; 203, n. 27.
                Psalms, George Sandys's metrical version of, 179.
                Psalms, Sternhold and Hopkins's version of the, 178, 179; 213.
                
                Pundits in Philadelphia who followed Olaus, 14.
                Punishment of students, law limiting, 244.
                Punishments, variety of, 193.
                Purgatory abolished by the government, 257, n. 2.
                Puritanism tied to temporal laws of the Jews, 182; made one great contribution to
                    human culture, 192; the weakness of, was the weakness of its age, 193; in New
                    England felt recoil of Restoration of 1660, 201, n. 21; small farmers
                    susceptible to, 280.
                Puritans, the, looked on Elizabeth's rule with disfavor, 271, n. 29.
                Puritans and Precisians to conform or leave the country, 197, n. 12.
                Purvis's Laws of Virginia, 249, m.
                Putnam, Joseph, declared his detestation of witchcraft, 33; carried child to
                    Salem to be baptized, 33.
                Putrefaction produced life, 10; meat made tender under rays of moon a form of,
                    37, n. 5; creatures engendered by, 41, n. 12.
                Puttenham's Arte of English Poesie, Arber's edition, 97, m.; 98, m.; 129, n. 2.
                Quacks flourished in the colonies, 79.
                Quakers opposed to slavery, 305, 306.
                Quarrel between minister and people at Salem village, 30.
                Quick, appendix to Mulcaster, 244, m.
                Quincy's History of Harvard College, 45, n. 14; 227, m.; 235, m.; 241, m.; 247,
                    m.; 259, n. 8.
                Quintessence, directions for alchemical processes to attain, 89, n. 17.
                Quitrents the lord's half-penny, 282; paid by the town in New York, 309, n. 8.
                Rainbows recorded with a "Laus Deo," 9.
                Rank, reverence for, 142.
                Rattlesnake, American, used medicinally, 64; killed by smelling penny-royal, 67;
                    skin of, worn as a girdle, 71; antidotes for bite of, 66; 73; 87, n. 14.
                Rawdon, Marmaduke, Camden Society, No. 105, 90, n. 20.
                Ray, John, on unicorns, in Harris's Voyages, 15, m.; slow to believe Redi, 42, n.
                    12.
                Raynaud's, Maurice, Les Mdecins au Temps de Molire, 52, m.; 81, n. 4.
                Recesses, no regular, for play, in the schools, 240.
                Record Commission, Institutes Civil and Ecclesiastical, published by, 195, n. 1.
                Records of City of Canterbury, Ninth Report of Royal Commission on Historical
                    MSS., 197, n. 10.
                Records of Massachusetts Colony, 138, n. 20.
                Records of Virginia Colony, 220, m.; 310, n. 12.
                Recovery, common, forbidden by statute in Virginia, 292.
                Redemptioners as schoolmasters, 264, n. 16.
                Redi, advocate of Harvey's doctrines, 42, n. 12; experiments of, showing that
                    insects were not generated spontaneously, 42, n. 12.
                Reeves's History of Law, 273, m.
                Register of Christ's Church Parish, Middlesex County, Virginia, 109, m.
                Rehoboth, R. I., built in a semicircle, 308, n. 5.
                Religion and beauty regarded as antagonists, 189.
                Religion treated as a mere propriety, 159.
                Religious but ruthless spirit in all churches and parties, 166.
                Religious movements become political and social forces, 168.
                Remedy, no recovery without a, 71; existence of a universal, 249.
                Renegades lost to their old lives in America, 297.
                Rents of the lord paid by the town, 278.
                Report on Burgh and Middle Class Schools in Scotland, 240, m.; 268, n. 26; 269,
                    n. 26.
                Report, Third, of Commissioners on Education in Scotland, 266, n. 21.
                Reports of Clergy in Virgina Collections, 222, m.
                Rest, Puritan mind had no conception of, 161, 162.
                Results of Three Synods, 144, m.; 163, m.; 201, n. 21.
                
                Retainers, liveried, of high sheriffs, 17.
                Retrospective Review, 23, m.; 47, n. 20; 196, n. 8.
                Revenge and religion commingled, 179.
                Reverence, spectacular show of, made to judges and governors, 144.
                Rhazes on Smallpox, 52, m.
                Rhode Island, no mention of schools in the early colony records of, 238; school
                    at Bristol in 1682, 239; first organized into towns, 308, n. 5.
                Richard, Colonel Solomon, on barnacle geese, 43, n. 12.
                Richard's, Colonel Solomon, Dissertation sur la Possession des Corps par les
                    Dmons, 45, n. 15.
                Ridgely's Annals of Annapolis, 20, m.
                Ridley's View of the Law, 265, n. 18.
                Roasting ears an early name for green corn, 133, n. 10.
                Roberti, the Jesuit, ascribed wart cures to the devil, 60.
                Robinson, John, the sweet-hearted pastor of the Pilgrims, 176.
                Robinson's, John, Works, 202, n. 22.
                Rodach's, Phdro von, Vom Stein der Weisen, 61, m.; 88, n. 15; 88, n. 16.
                Rode's, Hugh, Boke of Nurture, E. E. T. S., 114, m.
                Rogers's, Thorold, Work and Wages, 257, n. 1; 289, m.; 309, n. 8.
                Rogues made and hanged, 294.
                Rolfink, Werner, most learned of German anatomists, 41, n. 12; rejected
                    palingenesis in book on chemistry, 41, n. 12.
                "Roost-cock" in English use earlier than the time of colony planting, 137, n. 19.
                "Rooster," a word produced by American mock modesty, 137, n. 19.
                Rosicrucians, weapon ointment derived from, 58; sympathetic powder attributed to,
                    59; Gothic medicines traced to, 63.
                Roxburghe Library, Inedited Tracts, 213, m.
                Roxbury, free school in, supported by householders, 226.
                Royal African Company of England, 303.
                Royal College of Physicians, Roll of, 77, m.
                Royal Comm. Gawdy MSS., 77, m.
                Royal Hist. MSS. Comm. Report, 8, m.; Tenth Report, Appendix, 85, n. 9; 147, m.
                Royal Society, members of, investigated monstrosities, 16; relations of
                    sympathetic cures and trials discussed before, 86, n. 12; Virginia writer in
                    Transactions, 133, n. 10.
                Royal Society Philosophical Transactions, Abridgment, 67, m.; 73, m.
                Royal touch, colonists cut off from remedy by, 91, n. 21.
                Ruggles's History of Guilford, Conn., quoted in Judd's Hadley, 113, m.
                Ruminants in Chili and Peru yielded bezoar stones, 65.
                Runaways from Virginia in North Carolina, 298.
                Rush, John, of Salem, 275.
                Russell's Boke of Nurture, E. E. T. S., No. 32, 15, m.
                Rustic English, mixing up of variant forms of, 134, n. 15.
                "Rye and Indian" known in eighteenth century, 132, n. 9.
                Sabbatarianism, James I tried to check tide of, 156.
                Sabbath, observance of the, 157; divine reverence paid to the, 160; the New
                    England, had become a fixed tradition, 163; Dr. Bownd's work on the, 160; a
                    strict, contrary to the freedoms of Holland, 165; to be devoted to religious
                    duties, 198, n. 14.
                Sabbath breaking, first record of indictment for, 197, n. 10.
                Sabbath keeping, strict, widely accepted, 155; laxity in, brought judgments, 163;
                    198, n. 15.
                Sabbath law disregarded by early Virginians, 158.
                Sackville, Sir Richard, complains of his "lewde schoolmaster," 242.
                Sainsbury's Calendar, 102, m.
                Saint, the prefix, omitted from familiar geographical names, 151.
                St. John's-wort, various medicinal uses of, 56, 57.
                Saint Paul's School, holidays allowed at, 241; foundation of, 257, n. 3.
                Sala, Angelus, ridiculed notion of drinkable gold, 88, n. 16.
                Salem village, a frontier town in 1692, 29; had elements needed for witchcraft
                         mania, 30; incredible glimpses of infernal
                    world at, 30; population decreased and business of, suffered, 34.
                Salerno, a woman the most skillful physician at the school of, 95, n. 30.
                Salmon's English Physician, 15, m.; 42, n. 12; 44, n. 13; 64, m.; 84, n. 9; 85,
                    n. 10; Shrder quoted by, 86, n. 12; recipes for making tincture of gold in, 88,
                    n. 16.
                Salvation, schemes of, an index of moral stress, 168.
                Sandys, George, poet secretary to the Virginia colony, 35, n. 2; rendered Ovid
                    into English verse, 121; 123; looked upon the wilderness as an enemy, 126;
                    metrical version of the Psalms, 179.
                Saturn, approach of, to be guarded against, 37, n. 4.
                Savage's Winthrop's Journal, 19, m.; 144, m.
                Scheltema's Geschiedenis der Heksenprocessen, 46, n. 17; 47, n. 20.
                School, a, in each local community, required by a central authority, 231; 236.
                School, American district, evolution of the, 209; 227, 228; 237.
                School and breakfast, 239.
                School, the dame, sprang up, 210; maintained at public expense, 237.
                School discipline, severity of, believed to be beneficial, 242.
                School holidays allowed, 241.
                School hours, 239, 240; in Aberdeen, 268, n. 26.
                School law of 1647 in Massachusetts, motive of the, 228-231.
                School laws, tricks and shifts to evade the, 234.
                School life in the age of American settlement, 239.
                Schoolboys, breakfastless, 239; munching breakfast bread along the road, 240.
                Schoole of Vertue, The, 214.
                Schoolmasters, harshness of, discussed in Cecil's chamber, 241; beat their pupils
                    "like stock-fishes," 242; think themselves best when they teach little and beat
                    much, 270, n. 28.
                Schools before the Reformation, 256, n. 1.
                Schools, country, for mere reading and writing, 230, 231; sustained in part by
                    enforced local taxation, 236; growth of, 237; began at six o'clock A. M., 239; kept cruelly long hours, 240; rooms used for, 245.
                Schools, early Christian, 208, 209; old cathedral, supplied with lay teachers,
                    210.
                Schools, elementary, in Scotland in 1494, and for Latin, 266, n. 21.
                Schools, free, founded by Henry VI, 257, n. 3 endowed out of spoils of
                    monasteries, 258, n. 3.
                Schools, free, founded in Virginia, 221; 262, n. 14.
                Schools, free grammar, for beginners in Latin, 214; scholars in the, ignorant of
                    English and of numbers, 216; writing taught in the, 216; the universal remedy,
                    219, 220; modes of sustaining, in New England, 226, 227; tax rate for, 227;
                    religious motive for, 227; agitations for, in New England, 229; established by
                    Massachusetts law of 1647, 230; decline of the Latin, 235, 236; English schools,
                    267, n. 10; made obligatory by law, 265, n. 20.
                Schools, free Latin, zeal for the founding of, in England, 209, 210; exotics in
                    Virginia, 222; found friendly environment in New England, 225, 226; laws for
                    promoting, in Maryland, 239; taught in Maryland by indentured servants or
                    convicts, 264, n. 16.
                Schools, monastic, connected with our modern systems, 207.
                Schools, New England, decline of, 265, n. 20.
                Schools, private, sprang up in Virginia, 222; license fee exacted from, by
                    Governor Howard, 223; offspring of law of demand and supply, 223; rustic, fairly
                    numerous, 263, n. 14.
                Schpf, German botanist, 69.
                Schot's, Gaspar, Physica Curiosa, 43, n. 12.
                Schotel's Oud Hollandsch Huisgezin der Zeventiende Eeuw, 211, m.; 257, n. 1; 267,
                    n. 21; 270, n. 28.
                Scientific observation, lack of, in centuries preceding the eighteenth, 40, n.
                    10.
                
                Scotland, each church in, to have a Latin teacher, 232.
                Scripture teaching, gentler side of, obscured, 178.
                Scruple-breeders, 186.
                Scruples at using the ring in marriage, 189; minor, 190.
                Secular culture in Virginia, 158.
                Seebohm's The Salic Law, 289, m.
                Seebohm's Village Community, 308, n. 6, n. 7; 309, n. 8, 9.
                Seizin, livery of, 275; 307, n. 3.
                Self-interest in morals, 149.
                Separatists, English, held to duality of pastoral office, 185.
                Serfdom and apprenticeship, 293-295; motives for releasing from, 294; 302.
                Serfs granted freedom as fellow-Christians, 302.
                Servant, title of, degraded, 113; frontiersmen unwilling to be called, 135, n.
                    18; the sick, neglected, 298.
                Servants, apprenticed, treated as property, 296; horrors of the traffic in, 296;
                    sifting of, by Massachusetts colonists, 299; obtained from dangerous classes,
                    299; some prosperous, 300; slaves for a time in all but name, 313, n. 19.
                Servants, bond, shiploads of, in Virginia and Maryland, 286; white, in excess of
                    blacks in Virginia, 286; 296; sold in great numbers, 296; in the colonies, 296,
                    297; whippings of, 297, 298; secret burial of, prohibited, 298; convict, 300,
                    301.
                Servants, Dutch, fled to New England or Maryland, 298.
                Servants, English, fled to Dutch territory, 298.
                Settlements, opening of new, produced demand for unskilled labor, 302.
                Seven, the number, and its parts, 81, n. 3.
                Sewall, Judge, opposed importation of slaves to Massachusetts, 306.
                Sewall, Samuel, witch foolery believed by, 31; humble confession of, read at
                    general fast, 34; annually kept day of humiliation, 34; on Eliot, the apostle,
                    204, n. 28.
                Sewall's Diary, 9, m; 16, m.; 77, m.; 137, n. 19; 148, m.; 151, m.; 152, m.; 189,
                    m.; 211, m.
                Shakespeare and Milton, artistic passions of, touched not the emigrants, 3;
                    quotation from Julius Csar on humor, 51; punning form given to proverb by, 114;
                    quotation from Romeo and Juliet about a witch, 118.
                Sheep of a town in Connecticut paid all the corporate expenses, 282.
                Shell money, names for, 107.
                Shepard and Ransom in L. Swift on Election Sermons, 235, m.
                Shephard's Select Cases of Conscience, 195, n. 3; Treatise on the Sabbath, 195,
                    n. 3.
                Short Account of Several Kinds of Societies, 167 m.
                Sibley's Harvard Graduates, 140, n. 25; 163, m.; 203, n. 24; 215, m.; 268, n. 23.
                Signatures, origin of doctrine of, 55; 82, n. 7; theories concerning, 55, 56; 69,
                    70; medicinal, 56; 70; 82, 83, n. 7.
                Sigurenza, Gorgora, on popular dread of comets, 39, n. 8.
                Skepticism, wholesome scientific, born in the seventeenth century, 41, n. 12.
                Slander, punishments prescribed for, 194, n. 1.
                Slaughter's History of the Parish, quoted in Anderson's Colonial Church, 78.
                Slave trade, Newport the great center of, 306.
                Slavery, an insignificant element of Virginia life in the seventeenth century,
                    198, n. 13; white, not done away in England till the eighteenth century, 295;
                    more ancient than historic records, 303; black tide of, ever swelling, 307.
                Slaves, black, most useful appurtenances of a plantation, 302; carried to Spanish
                    colonies, 303.
                Slaves, first, in English America, 302; conversion of, did not invalidate his
                    owner's claim, 304; efforts to convert, languid, 305; thousands of, sold into
                    New England, 306.
                Slaves, white, six thousand in Virginia, 296.
                Smith, Erminnie A., in Powell's Second Bureau of Ethnology Report, 90, n. 19.
                
                Smith of Nibley Manuscripts, 74, m.; 122, m.; 156, m.; 261, n. 11; 285, m.; 311,
                    n. 13.
                Smith's History of New York, 192, m.
                Smith's Oxford Tract, 105, m.; 106, m.; 107, m.
                Smyth's Tour, 135, n. 18.
                Snakeroot, Seneca, used as general medicine in Europe, 73; only American remedy
                    in Valentine's list, 94, n. 30.
                Social aspirants, ambitions of, repressed by fines, 143.
                Social conditions affected speech, 112.
                Society for the Propagation of the Gospel, Letter to, in 1701, by Governor
                    Dudley, 267, n. 22.
                Societies, religious, 166, 167.
                Society in the South, 284; 288.
                Sot-weed Factor, 105, m.; 107, m.
                Soul, human, in insurrection against barbarism, 209.
                South Carolina, statutes of, 100, m.
                Southern people lacked the New England cohesion, 288.
                Southerner, the, became hospitable and generous, 288.
                Sparrow's Collection, 91, n. 21.
                Speech, common, ever-varying storehouse of, 97; barbarous, of the common people,
                    134, n. 14.
                Spelling, bad, and clumsy writers, 233-235.
                Spencer, Dr. John, protests against considering comets ominous, 38, n. 8.
                Spencer's Of Natural Prodigies, 7, m.
                Spiders, use of, in cases of intermittent fevers, 71.
                "Spirit," the, and his victims, 295; 302.
                Spirits, evil, popular belief in active meddling of, 19; particularly active on
                    the Connecticut, 19; have given proofs of their presence with men, 24.
                Spiritual existence, palpable evidence of, afforded by witchcraft, 28.
                Sports, brutality of, 180; relish for inhumane, 181, 182; lawful to be used, 197,
                    n. 12.
                Sprat's Royal Society, 42, n. 12; 44, n. 13; 86, n. 12; 90, n. 20.
                Sprengel, Kurt, on Mesue the younger, 87, n. 14.
                Sprengel's, Kurt, Apologie des Hippocrates, 80, n. 3.
                Sprengel's Geschichte der Arzneikunde, 28, m.; 42, n. 12; 45, n. 15; 47, n. 20;
                    53, m.; 59, m.; 88, n. 16; citing Sanctorius, 51, m.
                Sprengell, C., on Sentences of Celsus, 53, m.
                Sprengell's, Sir Conrad, Translation of Aphorisms of Hippocrates, 80, n. 3.
                Springfield infamous by reason of witches, 19.
                Sprites, groveling and grotesque, 22; not the offspring of theological
                    speculation, 23; denounced as Christian devils, 23.
                Stafford, Dr., of London, remedies prescribed by, 56, 57, 58
                Stafford's A Brief Conceipt of English Pollicy, 312, n. 17.
                Stars thought to control human affairs, 5.
                State Papers, 300, m.
                State, subordination of the, to the Church, 146; 195, n. 4; education for the
                    service of the, secondary to ministerial, 225; 227.
                Statutes at Large, 89, n. 18; 260, n. 9.
                Stedman's, Edmund Clarence, Library of American Literature, 140, n. 24.
                Steiner's Education in Maryland, Sollers in, 238, m.; 260, n. 8.
                Sternhold and Hopkins's version of the Psalms, 213.
                Stiles's MS., 140, n. 25; 308, n. 5.
                Stith's Virginia, 156, m.
                Story's Journal, 200, n. 21; 202, n. 23; 203, n. 26.
                Stoughton, Judge, witch foolery believed by, 31.
                Stow's Survey of London, 256, n. 1; 257, n. 3.
                Strachey, description of corn given by, 104; account of Virginia, 132, n. 8.
                Strangers forbidden, 289.
                Stratford-on-Avon, disastrous conflagration in, 157.
                Strongbow led colony of English who settled County Wexford in Ireland, 110.
                Strype's Annals of the Reformation, 258, n. 3; Memorials, 258, n. 3.
                Sukey Fry, ballad of, 137-138, n. 20.
                Sunday in pioneer Virginia, 155; of Elizabeth's reign, 155; in Virginia never a
                    rigorous Sabbath, 159;  painfully rigorous repose
                    on, a badge of Puritanism, 160; effort of Puritanism to transform into a Hebrew
                    Sabbath, 162; law concerning, Catholic in tone in Maryland, 164; sale of liquor
                    on, in New Netherlands, 165.
                Superstition, Protestant and Catholic zeal against, 20; part of fixed intellect
                    of the age, 23.
                Surgeon sent to each colonial settlement, 73; word, as professional distinction,
                    disappeared from general use, 75; obliged to take apprentices, 78; not esteemed
                    in England in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, 93, n. 29; one, a Dutch
                    bond servant, 94, n. 29.
                Surgeon's Mare, The, a book on medicine used by colonists, 94, n. 29.
                Surgeons, scarcity of, 75.
                Surrey, Virginia, MS. Records, 276, m.
                Swallows winter in clay of river bottoms, 13, 14; Scandinavian and other myths
                    about, 44, n. 13.
                Swearers, Endecott instructed to make good laws for punishing, 149.
                Swearing, cold water a punishment for, 148; forbidden by God's law, 197, n. 11.
                Swimming witches, a favorite amusement, 19; 21; 46, n. 17.
                Swineherd, the, 281; antiquity of the, 309, n. 8.
                Sydenham Society: Dr. Ent's letter in Willis's translation of Harvey's works, 41,
                    n. 12; Adam's Commentary on P. gineta, 51, m.; Aretus of Cappadocia on Acute
                    Diseases, 51, m.; Paulus gineta, 82, n. 7.
                Sydenham's Opera Omnia, 94, n. 30; Epistle I, in English, 94, n. 30.
                Sylloge Confessionum sub tempus Reformand Ecclesi, I Doctrin, caput xvii, in,
                    202, n. 23.
                Symmes, Benjamin, founds a free school in Virginia, 221.
                Symond's Diary, 97, m.
                Table of the Astrological Houses of the Heaven, 5, m
                Tachenius, Otto, His Clavis, 11, m.; 83, n. 7.
                Talking in the street on Sunday forbidden, 164.
                Tanner's Art of Physic, 65, m.; Notitia Monastica, 255, n. 1; 257, n. 2.
                Taylor's, Jeremy, Life of the Holy Jesus, 200, n. 21.
                Teachers ignorant and careless, 243.
                Teaching, primary, done at home, 211.
                Telephus, ancient legend of, 84, n. 7.
                Temple's North Brookfield, 237, m.
                Tenures, conveyance of, 275, 276; 307, n. 3; 308, n. 4.
                Themes of college graduates, 248.
                Theocracy, ideal of, evolved, 146; the best form of government, 196, n. 5.
                Theriac, origin of and beliefs concerning, 63, 64; Iroquois had a sort of, 90, n.
                    19; Venice treacle a world-famed, 94, n. 30.
                Thevet's, Andre, New found World or Antarctike awakened curiosity about medicinal
                    value of American plants, 92, n. 23.
                Thieves pardoned on condition of seven years' service in the colonies, 300.
                Thomson, Benjamin, the renowned poet of New England, 125.
                Thomson on the Plague, 82, n. 6.
                Tiraboschi on the production of fossil trees, 11, m.
                Tiraboschi's Storia della Letteratura Italiana, letter of Aramatori in,
                    questioning equivocal generation of insects, 41, n. 12; 68, m.; cites from
                    Odericus Vitalis, 95, n. 30.
                Toads, medicinal uses of, 57, 58; 85, n. 10.
                Tobacco, a thousand pounds of, paid as fee to Mrs. Livingston, 78; extraordinary
                    medicinal virtues attributed to, 92, n. 23; cultivation of, in Virginia, 286.
                Tolman's Education in Rhode Island, 226, m.
                Topsell, note from, in E. E. T. S., No. 32, 15, m.
                Torture, legal, to produce confession, in use in New England, 183.
                Tote of English origin, 137, n. 19.
                Touch, miraculous, of English kings, dated from the Confessor, 91, n. 21; of
                    seventh son almost as good as king's, 91, n. 21.
                Town community perpetual tenant of the manor, 277; phraseology of the, 281; the
                    prudentials of the, 282;  309, n. 10; dead in New
                    England, 289; paid quitrents as a whole in New York, 309, n. 8; in Delaware Bay,
                    285; 310, n. 11.
                Town, corporate, responsibility of the, for the support of its school, 264, n.
                    17; political importance of the, 283; every vestige of the, destroyed in
                    Virginia, 285; the taxpayer and the landowner, 287.
                Town government, primitive, 309, n. 10.
                Town meeting the source of political power, 284.
                Town plan in Long Island, New Jersey, and Delaware Bay, 285; 310, n. 11.
                Town system preferred by New-Englanders, 285.
                Towns, few, escaped fines for neglect of school laws, 234; the sources of power,
                    283; government fell into the hands of the, 284.
                Township in Massachusetts became the political unit, 283.
                Traveling on Sundays prevented, 164.
                Tree regarded as a part of the soil, 275; 307, n. 3.
                Trials accompanied by great cruelties, 32.
                Triton in Casco Bay, 15.
                Tryal of Witches, A, before Sir Matthew Hale, 23 m.; Sir T. Browne's testimony
                    at, 23, m.; Hale's charge, 24, m.
                Tuer's History of the Hornbook, 212, m.
                Tunes, familiar, corruption of, 187.
                Turell's Life of Coleman, 189, m.
                Turf, twig, and splinter, seizin by, 275; 307, n. 3.
                Turk, the typical infidel, 101.
                Turkey, mottled eggs of, bred leprosy, 70; various names of the, 101, 102; allied
                    with bustard, 102.
                Tusser's Points of Good Husbandry, 5.
                Tutors, private, bought from among the redemptioners, 224.
                Tyler's, Moses Coit, History of American Literature, 139, n. 24.
                Tymme's Silver Watch Bell, 174, m.
                Ultimogeniture, or "borough English," 293.
                Unicorn observed on the Hudson, 15; horn of, an ideal antidote to poison, 83, n.
                    7.
                Unitarian branded for blasphemy, 149.
                Universal antidote, notion of, in medicine, 63; contained over sixty ingredients,
                    63; known in England as Venice treacle, 63.
                Universities not recovered from scholastic grossness, 247.
                University scholars, mendacity of, 260, n. 9.
                Unlearned Chemist in Medical Libraries, 54.
                Upham, the industrious historian of Salem, 267, n. 22.
                Upham's Salem witchcraft, only reliable work on witches in Salem, 24, m.; 47, n.
                    20.
                Uprightness of life mere sin, 172.
                Usufruct of land and cattle the commonest bequest for benevolent purposes, 221.
                Valentine's day, choosing mates on, a taking God's name in vain, 154.
                Valentinus's, Basilius, Triumph Wagen Antimonii, 57, m.; 83, n. 7; 84, n. 8; 85,
                    n. 10; 94, n. 30.
                Vaughan's Directions for Health, 150, m.
                Venesection denounced, 82, n. 6; not so common in England as in France, 82, n. 6.
                Venice treacle, universal antidote, 63; 76; 94, n. 30.
                Venus, dittany used by, 66.
                Verbalism, ethereal, in Practice of Piety, 199, n. 19.
                Vermin compounded as medicine, 72.
                Vernatti, Sir P., in Sprat's Royal Society, 90, n. 20.
                Vestry Book of All Faith's, MS. in Maryland Historical Society, 139, n. 21.
                Village community. See COMMUNE, THE TOWN.
                Village life of the North led to commercial development, 288.
                Village plan lost in the larger agriculture of the South, 285; crowded out in
                    Virginia, 287.
                Village, the New England, same as the English farming community, 283.
                Villanage prohibited in the fundamental law of Massachusetts and Connecticut,
                    305.
                
                Viper, the flesh of, used in antidotes, 63, 64; the rattlesnake used as
                    substitute for, 64.
                Virgil's neid, 66, m.
                Virginia, A Perfect Description of, 100, m.; 106, m.; 133, n. 11.
                Virginia, alarm in, on account of ministers, 249; college and free schools in,
                    opposed by Berkeley, 249; college subscription raised, 250; mercenary lawyers
                    ejected from, 273; 307, n. 2; the Southern model, 290.
                Virginia Brittania, 104, m.
                Virginia Calendar for 1688, 137, n. 19; 194, n. 1.
                Virginia Company endows a college at Henrico, 220; adds to endowment of Charles
                    City School, 221.
                Virginia Company MS. Records, 220, m.
                Virginia, early, untouched by any strong religious sentiment, 160.
                Virginia Gazette, 137, n. 19.
                Virginia Historical Register, 224, m.; 262, n. 14; 263, n. 14.
                Virginia Historical Society, Randolph MSS. in, 149, m.
                Virginia life, multitude of documents relating to, 197, n. 13; extremely rural,
                    223.
                Virginia Papers, State Paper Office, 137, n. 19.
                Virginia State Library, manuscript county records in, 54, m.
                Virginia, True Declaration of, 130, n. 6.
                Virginia Vestries, Early Manuscript Records of, 170, m.
                Virginians trained to politics and social intercourse, 159; under curse for
                    sacrilege, 183.
                Vitality, persistence of, 11.
                Votius's Excertatio de Prognosticis Cometarum, 38, n. 8; lays stress on bad
                    reputation of comets, 38, n. 8.
                Voltaire's Commentaire sur Beccaria, 22, m.
                Vossius on bees, 39, n. 10.
                Voting, church, negative not taken in, 190.
                Wampum, derivation of, 107.
                Ward, Nathaniel, bitter words of, against Irish rebels, 179.
                Warts cured by rubbing with rind of pork, 60.
                Wasps produced by decaying fruit, 10.
                Watch-coat, a corruption of match-core (blanket), 106.
                Waterfowl produced from wood rotting in water, 12; habits of, better known to
                    pioneer than pedantic philosopher, 12.
                Watkins's Law of Tenures, 308, n. 3; On Copyholds, 308, n. 4.
                Watson's Annals, 73, m.; 77, m.
                Weapon ointment derived from Rosicrucians, 58; descriptions of its preparation,
                    59; much thought of, 63.
                Weeden's Economic History of New England, 265, n. 20.
                Wendell's Life of Cotton Mather, 45, n. 15.
                Wesley-Whitefield revival, The, 167.
                Westminster Assembly on good works, 199, n. 20.
                Westover Papers, by Byrd, 64, m.; 73; 73, m.; 78.
                Wheat-raising in Massachusetts blighted by comet of 1665, 7.
                Whippings of English servants, 297, 298.
                Whiston's Cathedral Trusts, 257, n. 2.
                White's, Andrew D., Warfare of Science and Theology, 43, n. 12.
                White-Kennett Library, London, 167.
                White, of Selbourne, on hibernation of swallows, 44, n. 13.
                Whitmore's Introduction to Code of 1660, 195, n. 1.
                Widows, ancient, church officers, 185.
                Widow's third of husband's estate, 293.
                Wife called "my woman," 136, n. 19; obedience the shining virtue of a, 142.
                Wigglesworth, Dr. E., notice appended to funeral discourse of, 125, m.
                Wigglesworth, Michael, and the stable door, 163; the doggerel Dante of pioneer
                    New England, 176.
                Wigglesworth's, Michael, Day of Doom, 124, 125; 163; 172; 177; damnation scene
                    in, 173; 202, n. 23; 202, n. 24; 203, n. 26.
                Wilderness, grand primeval, called "uncouth," 126.
                Wilkins, Alice, ailment of, cast by horoscope, 5; 36, n. 4.
                Wilkins, Bishop of Chester, an able mathematician, 35, n. 1.
                Wilkin's works, 3, m.; 14, m.; 35, n. 1.
                
                Willard, Parson, and Elizabeth Knap's hysteria, 27.
                William and Mary gave freely for their college, 250.
                William and Mary Quarterly, vol. ii, 54, m.; 139, n. 23; for 1897, 262, n. 13.
                Willsford's Scales of Commerce, 218, m.
                Wilson's Account of Carolina, 133, n. 11.
                Winsor's, Justin, pamphlet bibliography of American witchcraft, 47, n. 20.
                Winthrop, John, the younger, possessed works on astrology, 5; belonged to
                    chemical school, 54, 55; most noted master of medicine in colonial period, 56;
                    books on subject of sympathetic powder imported by, 59; dabbled in alchemy, 62;
                    owned books on potable gold, 62; library of, 89, n. 18; 120.
                Winthrop, Wait, son of John the younger, 62; an adept in panaceas, 62; turned
                    nearly all Nature to medicine, 93, n. 27.
                Winthrop's Journal, 150, 151, m.; 152, m.; 186, m.; 193, m.; 196, n. 8; 206, n.
                    34.
                Winthrop's Letter to Sir N. Rich, 191, m.
                Winthrop's Life and Letters, 206, n. 34.
                Witch, first, brought to trial in Boston, 1648, 20; wife of Boston magistrate
                    hanged as a, 20; weighed against church Bible, 21; with dog's body and woman's
                    head, 27.
                Witch excitements in nearly every colony, 20; elements for, at Salem, 30.
                Witch literature of seventeenth century oppressively vast, 47, n. 20.
                Witch panics in England, 21.
                Witch trials, Continental, reported for Englishmen, 28.
                Witchcraft, renascence of, 20; attempt to suppress, by death penalty, 21; two
                    hundred tried for, 21; accusations of, retracted, 27; evidences of spiritual
                    existence afforded by, 28; mischief-working, at Salem, 31; partisans of,
                    overthrown, 33; extreme faith of Luther in, 45, n. 16; Addison's Essay on, 46,
                    n. 18; ferocious pursuit of those accused of, 194.
                Witchcraft accusations on Long Island, 19.
                Words, peculiarities in use of, 135-137, notes.
                Witches, swimming, a favorite amusement, 21; 100,000 arraigned and executed by
                    Christian judges, 22; sprites known as familiars of, 23; diabolical dance of,
                    24; ride on sticks, poles, or brooms, 30, 31; persecution of, ceased after Salem
                    trials, 34; how tortured in England, 46, n. 17.
                Woman, a, the most skillful physician at Salerno, 95, n. 30.
                Woman hanged for cleanliness, 32.
                Women physicians not uncommon, 77; engrossed considerable share of medical art in
                    New Jersey, 95, n. 30.
                Women servants, degradation of, a source of evil, 299.
                Women, singing by, objected to, 186; went to meetings veiled, 190; Winthrop
                    thought much learning dangerous to, 244; Mulcaster advised higher education for,
                    270. n. 29; teaching chiefly done by, 271, n. 29.
                Wonder-working Providences, 19, m.
                Wood for schools delivered in November, 245.
                Wood, moon's influence on cutting, 5.
                Wood's Athen Oxonienses, 168, m.
                Wood's New England Prospect, 106, m.; 107, m.
                Woodward's Rise of the Religious Societies, 166, m.; 167, m.
                World, the invisible, a reflection of the familiar material, 16; near the end of
                    the, 41, n. 12; a cosmic pharmacy, 56.
                Worship, right of prescribing modes of, denied, 163; obligation of, greater than
                    moral duty, 183.
                Writing, elegance of the old decorative, 129.
                Writing schools, 218; maintained at public expense, 237.
                Wright's Domestic Manners and Sentiments in the Middle Ages, 256, n. 1; 260, n.
                    9.
                Wright's Literature and Superstition of England, vol. ii, essay x, 23, m.
                Yankee twang in London, 110; carried from England to Ireland before Chaucer, 110;
                    transplanted to America, 111.
                
                Yellow dock still used as a cure for jaundice, 85, n. 9.
                Yellow fever, epidemic of, attributed to the first United States census, 192.
                Yonge, Walter, Diary of, 91, n. 21; 96, m.
                Young's Chronicles of Massachusetts, 149, m.; 153, m.; 161, m.
                Young's Subjects for Master's Degree at Harvard, 36, n. 3; 249, m.]
                York County, Virginia, Manuscript Records, 74, m.; 184, m.; 223, m.; 275, m.
                Zeal, religious, without pity, 165, m.; altruistic, evolution of, 166; for pity's
                    sake, 167.
                CHARLES ALEXANDER NELSON.
                THE END
            
            
        
    
