
     ----CITATION---- 
        Thompson, Maurice, 1844-1901. Hoosier Mosaics: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2388
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
            
            
                
                    HOOSIER MOSAICS.
                
                By MAURICE THOMPSON.
                
                    NEW YORK:
                    E. J. HALE & SON, PUBLISHERS, MURRAY
                            STREET
                    
                    1875.
                
            
            
            
                Verso
                Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1875, by E.
                    J. HALE & SON, In the office of the Librarian of Congress at
                    Washington.
            
            
            
                Dedication
                Affectionately to my Father, The Reverend GRIGG THOMPSON.
            
        
        
            
            
                Hoosier mosaics
                
                    WAS SHE A BOY?
                    NO matter what business or what pleasure took me, I once,
                        not long ago, went to Colfax. Whisper it not to each other that I was
                        seeking a foreign appointment through the influence of my fellow Hoosier,
                        the late Vice-President of the United States. O no, I didn't go to
                        the Hon. Schuyler Colfax at all; but I went to Colfax, simply, which is a
                        little dingy town, in Clinton County, that was formerly called Midway,
                        because it is half way between Lafayette and Indianapolis. It was and is a
                        place of some three hundred inhabitants, eking out an aguish subsistence,
                        maintaining a swampy, malarious aspect, keepiug up a bilious, nay, an
                        atra-bilious color, the year round, by sucking like an attenuated leech at
                        the junction, or, rather, the crossing of the I. C. & L., and the L.
                        C. & S. W. railroads. It lay mouldering, like something lost and
                        forgotten, slowly rotting in the swamp.
                    I do not mean to attack the inhabitants of 
                        Colfax, for they were good people, and deserved a better fate than the
                        eternal rattling the ague took them through from year's end to
                        year's end. Why, they had had the ague so long that they had no
                        respect for it at all. I've seen a woman in Colfax shaking with a
                        chill, spanking a baby that had a chill, and scolding a husband who had a
                        chill, all at onceand I had a dreadful ague on me at the same time! But, as
                        I have said, they were good people, and I suppose they are still. They go
                        quietly about the usual business of dead towns. They have
                        "stores" in which they offer for sale calico, of the
                        big-figured, orange and red sort, surprisingly cheap. They smoke those
                        little Cuba sixes at a half cent apiece, and call them cigars; they hang
                        round the dpt, and trade jack-knives and lottery watches on the afternoons
                        of lazy Sundays; they make harmless sport of the incoming and outgoing
                        country folk; and, in a word, keep pretty busy at one thing or another, and
                        above allthey shake.
                    In Colfax the chief sources of exciting amusement are dog fights and an
                        occasional row at Sheehan's saloon, a doggery of the regular
                        old-fashioned, drink, gamble, rob and fight sorta low place, known to all
                        the hard bats in the State.
                    
                    As you pass through the town you will not fail to notice a big sign,
                        outhanging from the front of the largest building on the principal street,
                        which reads: "Union Hotel, 1865." From the muddy suburbs
                        of the place, in every direction, stretch black muck swamps, for the most
                        part heavily timbered with a variety of oaks, interspersed vith sycamores,
                        ash, and elms. In the damp, shady labyrinths of these boggy woods millions
                        of lively, wide awake, tuneful mosquitoes are daily manufactured; and out
                        from decaying logs and piles of fermenting leaves, from the green pools and
                        sluggish ditch streams, creeps a noxious gas, known in that region as the
                        "double refined, high pressure, forty hoss power quintessential of
                        the ager!" So, at least, I was told by the landlord of the Unions
                        Hotel, and his skin had the color of one who knew.
                    Notwithstanding what I have said, Colfax, in summer, is not wholly without
                        attractions of a certain kind. It has some yellow dogs and some brindle
                        ones; it has some cattle and some swine; it has some swallows and some
                        spotted pigeons; it has cool, fresh smelling winds, and, after the water has
                        sufficiently dried out, the woods are really glorious with  wild roses, violets, turkey-pea blossoms, and
                        wild pinks. But to my story.
                    I was sitting on the long veranda of the Union Hotel, when a rough but kindly
                        voice said to me:
                    "Mornin', stranger; gi' me a light, will
                        ye?"
                    I looked up from the miserable dime novel at which I had been tugging for the
                        last hour, and saw before me a corpulent man of, perhaps, forty-five years
                        of age, who stood quite ready to thrust the charred end of a cigar stump
                        into the bowl of my meerschaum. I gave him a match, and would fain have
                        returned to Angelina St. Fortescue, the, heroine of the novel, whom I had
                        left standing on the extreme giddy verge of a sheer Alpine precipice, known,
                        by actual triangulation, to be just seven thousand feet high, swearing she
                        would leap off if Donald Gougerizeout, the robber, persisted further in his
                        rough addresses; but my new friend, the corpulent smoker, seemed bent on a
                        little bit of conversation.
                    "Thankee, sir. Fine mornin', sir, a'n't
                        it?"
                    "Beautiful," I replied, raising my head, elevating my arms,
                        and, by a kind of yawn, taking in a deep draught of the fresh spring
                        weather, absorbing it, assimilating it, till, like a wave of retarded
                        electricity, it set my nerves  in tune for
                        enjoying the bird songs, and filled my blood with the ecstasy of vigorous
                        health and youth. I, no doubt, just then felt the burden of life much less
                        than did the big yellow dog at my feet, who snapped lazily at the flies.
                    "Yes, yes, this 'ere's a fine
                        mornin'julicious, sir, julicious, indeed; but le' me tell
                        ye, sir, this 'ere wind's mighty deceitfulfor a fact it
                        is, sir, jist as full of ager as a acorn is of meat. It's
                        blowin' right off'n ponds, and is loaded chock down with
                        the miasmfor a fact it is, sir."
                    While delivering this speech, the fat man sat down on the bench beside me
                        there in the veranda. By this time I had my thumbs in the arm holes of my
                        vest, and my chest expanded to its utmostmy lungs going like a steam
                        bellows, which is a way I have in fine weather.
                    "Monstrous set o' respiratory organs, them o'
                        your'n," ho said, eyeing my manoeuvres. Just then I
                        discovered that he was a physician of the steam doctor sort, for, glancing
                        down at my feet, I espied his well worn leather medicine bags. I immediately
                        grew polite. Possibly I might ere long need some quinine, or mandrake, or a
                        hot steam bathanything for the ague!
                    
                    "Yes, I've got lungs like a porpoise," I replied,
                        "but still the ague may get me. Much sickness about here,
                        Doctoraawhat do they call your name?"
                    "Benjamin HardDoctor Hurd, they call me. I'm the only
                        thorer bred botanic that's in these parts. I do poorty much all the
                        practice about here. Yes, there's considerable of ager and phthisic
                        and bilious fever. Keeps me busy most of my time. These nasty swamps, you
                        know."
                    After a time our conversation flagged, and the doctor having lit a fresh
                        cigar, we smoked in silence. The wind was driving the dust along the street
                        in heavy waves, and I sat watching a couple of lean, spotted calves making
                        their way against the tide. They held their heads low and shut their eyes,
                        now and then bawling vigorously. Some one up stairs was playing
                        "Days of Absence" on a wretched wheezing accordeon.
                    "There's a case of asthma, doctor," I said,
                        intending to be witty. But my remark was not noticed. The doctor was in a
                        brown study, from which my words had not startled him. Presently he said, as
                        if talking to himself, and without taking the cigar from his mouth:
                    "'Twas just a year ago to-night, the 28th  day of May, 'at they took
                        'er away. And he'll die afore day to a dead certainty.
                        Beats all the derned queer things I ever seed or heerd of."
                    He was poking with the toe of his boot in the dust on the veranda floor, as
                        he spoke, and stealing a glance at his face, I saw that it wore an
                        abstracted, dreamy, perplexed look.
                    "What was your remark, doctor?" I asked, more to arouse him
                        than from any hope of being interested.
                    "Hum!ah, yes," he said, starting, and beginning a vigorous
                        puffing. "Ah, yes, I was cogitatin' over this matter
                        o' Berry Young's. Never have been able to 'count
                        for that, no how. Think about it more an' more every day.
                        "What's your theory of it?"
                    "Can't say, never having heard anything of it," I
                        replied.
                    "Well, I do say! Thought everybody had hearn of that, any how!
                        It's a rale romance, a reg'lar mystery, sir. It's
                        been, talked about, and writ about in the papers so much 'at I
                        s'posed 'at it was knowed of far and wide."
                    "I've been in California for several years past,"
                        I replied, by way of excuse for my ignorance of even the vaguest outline of
                        the affair, whatever it might be.
                    
                    "Well, you see, a leetle more'n a year ago a gal
                        an' her father come here and stopped at this 'ere very
                        hotel. The man must 'a' been som'res near sixty
                        years old; but the gal was young, and jist the poortiest thing I ever seed
                        in all my life. I couldn't describe how she looked at all; but
                        everybody 'at saw her said she was the beautifulest creatur they
                        ever laid eyes onto. Where these two folks come from nobody ever kuowed, but
                        they seemed like mighty nice sort of persons, and everybody liked
                        'em, 'specially the gal. Somehow, from the very start, a
                        kind of mystery hung 'round 'em. They seemed always to
                        have gobs o' money, and ouct in awhile some little thing'd
                        turn up to make folks kinder juberous somehow 'at they
                        wasn't jist what they ginerally seemed to be. But that gal was
                        fascinatin' as a snake, and as poorty as any picter. Her flesh
                        looked like tinted wax mixed with moonshine, and her eyes was as clear as a
                        limestone springthough they was dark as night. She was that full of restless
                        animal life 'at she couldn't set stillshe roamed round
                        like a leopard in a cage, and she'd romp equal to a ten-year-old
                        boy. Well, as mought be expected, sich a gal as that 'ere
                        'd 'tract attention in these parts, and I must say
                        'at the young  fellows here did git
                        'bominable sweet on her. 'Casionally two of 'em
                        'd git out in the swamps and have a awful fight on her
                        'count; but she 'peared to pay precious little
                        'tention to any of 'em till finally Berry Young stepped in
                        and jist went for 'er like mad, and she took to 'm. Berry
                        was r'ally the nicest and intelligentest young man in all this
                        country. He writ poetry for the papers, sirsnatchin' good poetry,
                        tooand had got to be talked of a right smart for his larnin',
                        an' 'complishments. He was good lookin', too;
                        powerful handsome, for a fact, sir. So they was to be married, Berry and the
                        gal, an' the time it was sot, an' the day it come,
                        an' all was ready, an' the young' folks was on
                        the floor, and the 'squire was jist a commencin' to say
                        the ceremony, when lo! and beholden, four big, awful, rough lookin'
                        men rushed in with big pistols and mighty terrible bowie knives, and big
                        papers and big seals, and said they was a sheriff and possum from Kaintucky.
                        They jist jumped right onto the gal an' her father an'
                        han'cuffed 'em, an' took 'em!"
                    "Handcuffed them and took them!" I repeated, suddenly
                        growing intensely interested. This was beating my dime novel, for sensation,
                        all hollow.
                    
                    "Yes, sir, han'cuffed 'em an' took
                        'em, an' away they went, an' they've not
                        been hearn of since to this day. Bat the mysteriousest thing about the whole
                        business was that when the sheriff grabbed the gal he called her George, and
                        said she wasn't no gal at all, but jist a terrible onery boy
                        'at had been stealin' an' counterfeitin'
                        an' robbin' all round everywhere. What d'ye think
                        of that?"
                    "A remarkably strange affair, certainly," I replied;
                        "and do you say that the father and the girl have not since been
                        heard from?"
                    "Never a breath. The thing got into all the newspapers and raised a
                        awful rumpus, and it turned out that it wasn't no sheriff
                        'at come there; but some dark, mysterious kidnappin'
                        transaction 'at nobody could account for. Detectives was put on
                        their track an' follered 'em to Injun territory
                        an' there lost 'em. Some big robberies was connected with
                        the affair, but folks could never git head nor tail of the
                        partic'lers."
                    "And it wasn't a real sheriff's arrest,
                        then?" said I.
                    "No, sir, 'twas jist a mystery. Some kind of a dodge of a
                        band of desperadoes to avoid the law some way. The papers tried to explain
                        it, but I never could see any sense to it. 'Twas  a clean, dead mystery. But I was
                        goin' on to tell ye 'at Berry Young took it awful hard
                        'bout the gal, an' he's been sort o'
                        sinkin' away ever sence, an' now he's jist ready
                        to wink out. Yonder's where Berry lives, in that 'ere
                        white cottage house with the vines round the winder. He's
                        desp'rit sicka sort o' consumption. I'm
                        goin' to see 'im now; good mornin' to
                        ye."
                    Thus abruptly ending our interview, the doctor took up his medicine bag and
                        went his way. He left me in a really excited state of mind; the story of
                        itself was so strange, and the narrator had told it so solemnly and
                        graphically. I suppose, too, that I must have been in just the proper state
                        of mind for that rough outline, that cartoon of a most startling and
                        mysterious affair, to become deeply impressed in my mind, perhaps, in the
                        most fascinating and fantastic light possible. A thirst to know more of the
                        story took strong hold on my mind, as if I had been reading a tantalizing
                        romance and had found the leaves torn out just where the mystery was to be
                        explained. I half closed my eyes to better keep in the lines aad shades of
                        the strange picture. Its influence lay upon me like a spell. I enjoyed it.
                        It was a luxury.
                    The wings of the morning wind fanned the  heat
                        into broken waves, rising and sinking, and flowing on, with murmur and flash
                        and glimmer, to the cool green ways of the woods, and, like the wind, my
                        fancy went out among golden fleece clouds and into shady places, following
                        the thread of this new romance. I cannot give a sufficient reason why the
                        story took so fast a hold on me. But it did grip my mind and master it. It
                        appeared to me the most intensely strange affair I had ever heard of.
                    While I sat there, lost in reflection, with my eyes bent on a very
                        unpromising pig, that wallowed in the damp earth by the town pump, the
                        landlord of the hotel came out and took a seat beside me. I gave him a pipe
                        of my tobacco and forthwith began plying him with questions touching the
                        affair of which the doctor had spoken. He confirmed the story, and added to
                        its mystery by going minutely into its details. He gave the names of the
                        father and daughter as Charles Afton and Ollie Afton.
                    Ollie Afton! Certainly no name sounds sweeter! How is it that these gifted,
                        mysteriously beautiful persons always have musical names!
                    "Ah," said the landlord, "you'd ort to
                        have seen that boy!"
                    
                    "Boy!" I echoed.
                    "Well, gal or boy, one or t'other, the wouderfulest human
                        bein' I ever see in all the days o' iny life! Lips as red
                        as ripe cur'n's, and for ever smilin'. Such
                        smilesoonkoo! they hurt a feller all over, they was so sweet. She was tall
                        an' dark, an' had black hair that curled short all
                        'round her head. Her skin was wonderful clear and so was her eyes.
                        But it was the way she looked at you that got you. Ah, sir, she had a power
                        in them eyes, to be sure!"
                    The pig got up from his muddy place by the pump, grunted, as if satisfied,
                        and slowly strolled off; a country lad drove past, riding astride the hounds
                        of a wagon; a pigeon lit on the comb of the roof of Sheehan's
                        saloon, which was just across the street, and began pluming itself. Just
                        then the landlord's little sharp-nosed, weasel-eyed boy came out
                        and said, in a very subdued tone of voice:
                    "Pap, mam says 'at if yon don't kill 'er
                        that 'ere chicken for dinner you kin go widout any fing to eat all
                        she cares."
                    The landlord's spouse was a red-headed woman, so he got up very
                        suddenly and took himself into the house. But before he got out of hearing
                        the little boy remarked:
                    
                    "Pap, I speaks for the gizzard of that 'ere chicken,
                        d'ye hear, now?"
                    I sat there till the dinner hour, watching the soft pink and white vapors
                        that rolled round the verge of the horizon. I was thoroughly saturated with
                        romance. Strange, that here, in this dingy little out-of-the-way village,
                        should have transpired one of the most wonderful mysteries history may ever
                        hold!
                    At dinner the landlord talked volubly of the Afton affair, giving it as his
                        opinion that the Aftons were persons tinged with negro blood, and had been
                        kidnapped into slavery.
                    "They was jist as white, an' whiter, too, than I
                        am," he went on, "but them Southerners 'd jist as
                        soon sell one person as 'nother, anyhow."
                    I noticed particularly that the little boy got his choice bit of the fowl. He
                        turned his head one side and ate like a cat.
                    When the meal was over I was again joined by Doctor Hurd on the verandah. He
                        reported Berry Young still alive, but not able to live till midnight. I
                        noticed that the doctor was nervous and kept his eyes fixed on
                        Sheehan's saloon.
                    "Stranger," sakl he, leaning over close to me, and speaking
                        in a low, guarded way,  "things is
                        workin' dasted curious 'bout nowsure's
                        gun's iron they jist is!"
                    "Wherehowin what way, doctor?" I stammered, taken aback by
                        his behavior.
                    "Sumpum's up, as sure as Ned!" he replied, wagging
                        his head.
                    "Doctor," I said, petulantly, "if you would be a
                        trifle more explicit I could probably guess, with some show of certainty, at
                        what you mean!"
                    "Can't ye hear? Are ye deaf? Did ye ever, in all yer born
                        days, hear a voice like that ere 'un? Listen!"
                    Sure enough, a voice of thrilling power, a rich, heavy, quavering alto,
                        accompanied by some one thrumming on a guitar, trickled and gurgled, and
                        poured through the open window of Sheehan's saloon. The song was a
                        wild, drinking carol, full of rough, reckless wit, but I listened,
                        entranced, till it was done.
                    "There now, say, what d'ye think o' that?
                        Ain't things a workin' round awful curious, as I
                        said?"
                    Delivering himself thus, the doctor got up and walked off.
                    When I again had an opportunity to speak to the landlord, I asked him if
                        Doctor Hurd was not thought to be slightly demented.
                    
                    "What! crazy, do you mean? No, sir; bright as a pin!"
                    "Well," said I, "he's a very queer fellow
                        any how. By the way, who was that singing just now over in the saloon
                        there!"
                    "Don't know, didn't hear 'em. Some of the
                        boys, I s'pose. They have some lively swells over there sometimes.
                        Awful hole."
                    I resumed my dime novel, and nothing further transpired to aggravate or
                        satisfy my curiosity concerning the strange story I had heard, till night
                        came down and the bats began to wheel through the moonless blackness above
                        the dingy town. At the coming on of dusk I flung away the book and took to
                        my pipe. Some one touched me on the shoulder, rousing me from a deep
                        reverie, if not a doze.
                    "Ha, stranger, this you, eh? Berry Young's a
                        dyin'; go over there wi' me, will ye?"
                    It was the voice of Doctor Hurd.
                    "What need for me have you?" I replied, rather stiffly, not
                        much relishing this too obtrusive familiarity.
                    "WellII jist kinder wanted ye to go over. The poor boy's
                        'bout passin' away, an' things is a
                        workin' so tarnation curious! Come 'long wi' me,
                        friend, will ye?"
                    Something in the fellow's voice touched me,  and without another word I arose and followed him to the
                        cottage. The night was intensely black. I think it was clear, but a heavy
                        fog from the swamps had settled over everything, and through this dismal
                        veil the voices of owls from far and near struck with hollow, sepulchral
                        effect.
                    "A heart is the trump!" sang out that alto voice from
                        within the saloon as we passed.
                    Doctor Hurd clutched my arm and muttered:
                    "That's that voice ag'in! Strangestrange! Poor
                        Berry Young!"
                    We entered the cottage and found ourselves in a cosy little room, where, on a
                        low bed, a pale, intelligent looking young man lay, evidently dying. He was
                        very much emaciated, his eyes, wonderfully large and luminous, were sunken,
                        and his breathing quick and difficult. A haggard, watching-worn woman sat by
                        his bed. From her resemblance to him I took her to be his sister. She was
                        evidently very unwell herself. We sat in silence by his bedside, watching
                        his life flow into eternity, till the little clock on the mantel struck,
                        sharp and clear, the hour of ten.
                    The sound of the bell startled the sick man, and after some incoherent
                        mumbling he said, quite distinctly:
                    
                    "Sister, if you ever again see Ollie Afton, tell himtell hertell,
                        say I forgive himsay to herhimI loved her all my lifetell himah! what was I
                        saying? Don't cry, sis, please. What a sweet, faithful sister! Ah!
                        it's almost over, dearAh, me!"
                    For some minutes the sister's sobbing echoed strangely through the
                        house. The dying man drew his head far down in the soft pillow. A breath of
                        damp air stole through the room.
                    All at once, right under the window by which the bed sat, arose a touching
                        guitar preludea tangled mesh of melodygusty, throbbing, wandering through
                        the room and straying off into the night, tossing back its trembling echoes
                        fainter and fainter, till, as it began to die, that same splendid alto voice
                        caught the key and flooded the darkness with song. The sick man raised
                        himself on his elbow, and his face flashed out the terrible smile of death.
                        He listened eagerly. It was the song "Come Where my Love lies
                        Dreaming," but who has heard it rendered as it was that night?
                        Every chord of the voice was as sweet and witching as a wind
                        harp's, and the low, humming undertone of the accompaniment was
                        perfection. Tenderly but awfully sweet, the music at length faded into utter
                        silence, and Berry Young sank limp and pallid upon his pillows.
                    
                    "It is Ollie," he hoarsely whispered. "Tell
                        hertell himO say to her for meah! water, sis, it's all
                        over!"
                    The woman hastened, but before she could get the water to his lips he was
                        dead. His last word was Ollie.
                    The sister cast herself upon the dead man's bosom and sobbed wildly,
                        piteously. Soon after this some neighbors came in, which gave me an
                        opportunity to quietly take my leave.
                    The night was so foggy and dark that, but for a bright stream of light from a
                        window of Sheehan's saloon, it would have been hard for me to find
                        my way back to the hotel. I did find it, however, and sat down upon the
                        verandah. I had nearly fallen asleep, thinking over the strange occurrences
                        of the past few hours, when the rumble of an approaching train of cars on
                        the I. C. & L. from the east aroused me, and, at the same moment, a
                        great noise began over in the saloon. High words, a few bitter oaths, a
                        struggle as of persons fighting, a loud, sonorous crash like the crushing of
                        a musical instrument, and then I saw the burly bar tender hurl some one out
                        through I the doorway just as the express train stopped close by.
                    "All aboard!" cried the conductor, waving  his lantern. At the same time, as the
                        bartender stood in the light of his doorway, a brickbat, whizzing from the
                        darkness, struck him full in the face, knocking him precipitately back at
                        full length on to the floor of the saloon.
                    "All aboard!" repeated the conductor.
                    "All aboard!" jeeringly echoed a delicious alto voice; and
                        I saw a slender man step up on the rear platform of the smoking car. A flash
                        from the conductor's lantern lit up for a moment this
                        fellow's face, and it was the most beautiful visage I have ever
                        seen. Extremely youthful, dark, resplendent, glorious, set round with waves
                        and ringlets of black hairit was such a countenance as I have imagined a
                        young Chaldean might have had who was destined to the high calling of
                        astrology. It was a face to charm, to electrify the beholder with its
                        indescribable, almost unearthly loveliness of features and expression.
                    The engine whistled, the bell rang, and as the train moved on, that slender,
                        almost fragile form and wonderful face disappeared in the darkness.
                    As the roar and clash of the receding cars began to grow faint in the
                        distance, a gurgling, grunting sound over in the saloon reminded, me that
                        the bar-tender might need some attention  tion,
                        so I stepped across the street and went in. He was just taking himself up
                        from the floor, with his nose badly smashed, spurting blood over him pretty
                        freely. He was in an ecstasy of fury and swore fearfully. I rendered him all
                        the aid I could, getting the blood stopped, at length, and a plaster over
                        the wound.
                    "Who struck you?" I asked.
                    "Who struck me? Who hit me with that 'ere brick,
                        d'ye say? Who but that little baby-faced, hawk-eyed cuss
                        'at got off here yesterday! He's a thief and a
                        dog!he's chowzed me out'n my last cent! Where is
                        he?I'll kill 'im yet! where is he?"
                    "Gone off on the train," I replied, "but who is
                        he? what's his name?"
                    "Blamed if I know. Gone, you say? Got every derned red o'
                        my money! Every derned red!"
                    "Don't you know anything at all about him?" I
                        asked.
                    "Yes."
                    "What?"
                    "I know 'at he's the derndest, alfiredest,
                        snatchin'est, best poker-player 'at ever dealt a
                        card!"
                    "Is that all?"
                    
                    "That's enough, I'd say. If you'd been
                        beat out'n two hundred an' odd dollars you'd
                        think you kuow'd a right smart, wouldn't ye?"
                    "Perhaps," said I. The question had a world of philosophy
                        and logic in it.
                    The shattered wreck of a magnificent guitar lay in the middle of the floor. I
                        picked it up, and, engraved on a heavy silver plate set in the ebony neck, I
                        read the name, Georgina Olive Afton.
                
                
                
                    TROUT'S LUCK.
                    AS early as eight o'clock the grand entrance
                        gateway to the Kokomo fair ground was thronged with vehicles of almost every
                        kind; horsemen, pedestrians, dogs and dust were borne forward together in
                        clouds that boiled and swayed and tumbled. Noise seemed to be the chief
                        purpose of every one and the one certain result of every thing in the crowd.
                    This had been advertised as the merriest day that might ever befall the
                        quiet, honest folk of the rural regions circumjacent to Kokomo, and it is
                        even hinted that aristocratic dames and business plethoric men of the town
                        itself had caught somewhat of the excitement spread abroad by the
                        announcement in the county papers, and by huge bills posted in conspicuous
                        places, touching Le Papillon and his monster balloon, wbich balloon and
                        which Le Papillon were pictured to the life, on the said posters, in the act
                        of sailing over the sun, and under the picture, in remarkably distinct
                        letters, "No humbug! go to the fair!"
                    
                    Dozier's minstrel troupe was dancing and singing attendance on this
                        agricultural exhibition, too, and somebody's whirling pavilion, a
                        shooting gallery, a monkey show, the glass works, and what not of tempting
                        promises of entertainments, "amusing and instructive."
                    Until eleven o'clock the entrance gateway to the, fair ground was
                        crowded. Farm wagons trundled in, drawn by sleek, well fed plough nags, and
                        stowed full of smiling folk, old and young, male and female, from the out
                        townships; buggies with youths and maidens, the sparkle of breastpins and
                        flutter of ribbons; spring wagons full of students and hard bats from town;
                        carriages brimming with laces, flounces, over skirts, fancy kid gloves,
                        funny little hats and less bonnets, all fermented into languid ebullition by
                        mild-eyed ladies; omnibuses that bore fleshy gentlemen, who wore linen
                        dusters and silk hats and smoked fine cigars; and jammed in among all these
                        were boys oil skittish colts, old fellows on flea-bit gray mares, with now
                        and then a reckless stripling on a mule. Occasionally a dog go't
                        kicked or run over, giving the assistance Of his howls and yelps to the
                        general din, and over all the dust hung heavily in a yellow cloud, shot
                        through with the lightning of burnished 
                        trappings and echoing with the hoarse thunder of the trampling, shouting
                        rumbling multitude. Indeed, that hot aguish autumn day let fall its sunshine
                        on the heads and blew its feverish breath through the rifts of the greatest
                        and liveliest mass of people ever assembled in Howard county.
                    Inside the extensive enclosure the multitude divided itself into streams,
                        ponds, eddies, refluent currents and noisy whirlpools of people. Some rare
                        attraction was everywhere.
                    Early in the day the eyes of certain of the rustic misses followed admiringly
                        the forms of Jack Trout and Bill Powell, handsome young fellows dressed in
                        homespun clothes, who, arm in arm, strolled leisurely across the grounds,
                        looking sharply about for some proper place to begin the expenditure of what
                        few dimes they had each been able to hoard up against this gala day. They
                        had not long to hunt. On every hand the "hawkers hawked their
                        wares."
                    Rising and falling, tender-toned, deftly managed, a voice rang out across the
                        crowd pleading with those who had long desired a good investment for their
                        money, and begging them to be sure and not let slip this last golden
                        opportunity.
                    
                    "Only a half a dollah! Come right along this way now!
                        Here's the great golden scheme by which thousands have amassed
                        untold fortunes! Here's your only and last chance to get two ounces
                        of first class candy, with the probability of five dollars in gold coin, all
                        for the small sum of half a dollah! And the cry isstill they come
                        I"
                    The speaker was such a man as one often observes in a first class railway
                        car, with a stout valise beside him containing samples, dressed with
                        remarkable care, and ever on the alert to mate one's acquaintance.
                        He stood on top of a small table or tripod, holding in his hand a green
                        pasteboard package just taken from a box at his feet.
                    "Only a half a dollah and a fortune in yonr grasp! Here's
                        the gold! Roll right this way and run your pockets over!"
                    Drifting round with the tide of impulsive pleasure seekers into which they
                        happened to fall, Jack Trout and Bill Powell floated past a bevy of lasses,
                        the prettiest of whom was Minny Hart, a girl whose healthy, vivid beauty was
                        fast luring Jack on to the rock of matrimonial proposals.
                    "Jimminy, but ain't she a little sweety!"
                        exclaimed the latter, pinching Bill's arm as they passed, and
                        glancing lovingly at Minny.
                    
                    "You're tellin' the truth, and talkin' it
                        smooth," replied Bill, bowing to the girls with the swagger
                        peculiar to a rustic who imagines he has turned a flue period. And with
                        fluttering hearts the boys passed on.
                    "Roll on ye torrents! Ouly a half a dollah! Eight this way if you
                        want to become a bloated aristocrat in less than no time! Five dollahs in
                        gold for only a half a dollah! And whose the next lucky man?"
                    Blown by the fickle, gusty breath of luck, our two young friends were finally
                        wafted to the feet of this oily vendor of prize packages, and they there
                        lodged, becalmed in breathless interest, to await their turn, each full of
                        faith in the yellow star of his fortunea gold coin of the value of five
                        dollars. They stood attentively watching the results of other men's
                        investments, feeling their fingers tingle when now and then some lucky
                        fellow drew the coveted prize. Five dollars is a mighty temptation to a poor
                        country boy in Indiana. That sum will buy oceans of fun at a fair where
                        almost any "sight" is to be seen for the "small
                        sum of twenty-five cents!"
                    Without stopping to take into consideration the possible, or rather, the
                        probable result of such a venture, Bill Powell handed up his  half dollar to the prize man, thus risking the
                        major part of all the money he had, and stood trembling with excitement
                        while the fellow broke open the chosen package. Was it significant of
                        anything that a blue jay fluttered for a moment right over the
                        crier's head just at the point of his detaching some glittering
                        object from the contents of the box?
                    "Here you are, my friend; luck's a fortune!"
                        yelled the man, as he held the gold coin high above his head, shaking it in
                        full view of all eyes in the multitude. "Here you are! which
                        'd you rather have, the gold or live and a half in
                        greenbacks?"
                    "Hand me in the rag chipsgold don't feel good to my
                        fingers," answered Bill Powell, swaggering again and grasping the
                        currency with a hand that shook with eagerness.
                    Jack Trout stood by, clutching in his feverish palm a two-dollar bill. His
                        face was pale, his lips set, his muscles rigid. He hesitated to trust in the
                        star of his destiny. He stood eyeing the bridge of Lodi, the dykes of
                        Arcolo. Would he risk all on a bold venture? His right shoulder began to
                        twitch convulsively.
                    "Still it rolls, and who's the next lucky man?
                        Don't all speak at once! Who wants five dollahs in gold and two
                        ounces of delicious  candy, all for the small
                        sum of half a dollah?"
                    Jack made a mighty effort and passed up his two dollar bill.
                    "Bravely done; select your packages!" cried the vendor.
                        Jack tremblingly pointed them out. Very carelessly and quietly the fellow
                        opened them, and with a ludicrous grimace remarked
                    "Eight ounces of mighty sweet candy, but nary a prize! Better luck
                        next time! Only a half a dollah! And who's the next lucky
                        man?"
                    A yell of laughter from the crowd greeted this occurrence, and Jack floated
                        back on the recoiling waves of his chagrin till he was hidden in the dense
                        concourse, and the uppermost thought in his mind found forcible expression
                        in the three monosyllables: "Hang the luck!"
                    It is quite probable that of all the unfortunate adventurers that day singed
                        in the yellow fire of that expert gambler's gold, Jack recognized
                        himself as the most terribly burned. Putting his hands into his empty
                        pockets, he sauntered dolefully about, scarcely able to look straight into
                        the face of such friends as he chanced to meet. He acted as if hunting for
                        something lost on the ground. Poor fellow,  it
                        was a real relief to him when some one treated him to a glass of lemonade,
                        and, indeed, so much were his feelings relieved by the cool potation, that
                        when, soon after, he met Minny Hart, he was actually smiling.
                    "O, Jack!" cried the pretty girl, "I'm so
                        glad to see you just now, for I do want to go into the minstrel show so bad!" She shot a glance of coquettish
                        tenderness right into Jack's heart. For a single moment he was
                        blessed, but on feeling for his money and recalling the luckless result of
                        his late venture, he felt a chill creep up his back, and a lump of the size
                        of his fist jump up into his throat. Here was a bad affair for him. He stood
                        for a single point of time staring into the face of his despair, then,
                        acting on the only plan he could think of to escape from the predicament, he
                        said:
                    "Wait a bit, Minny, I've got to go jist down here a piece
                        to see a feller. I'll be back d'rectly. You stay right
                        here and when I come back I'll trot you in."
                    So speaking, as if in a great hurry, and sweating cold drops, with a ghastly
                        smile flickering on his face, the young man slipped away into the crowd.
                    Minny failed to notice his confusion, and so 
                        called after him cheerily: "Well, hurry, Jack, for I'm
                        most dead to see the show!"
                    What could Trout do? He spun round and round in that vast flood of people
                        like a fish with but one eye. He rushed here, he darted there, and ever and
                        anon, as a lost man returns upon his starting point, he came in sight of
                        sweet Minny Hart patiently waiting for his return. Then he would spring back
                        into the crowd like a deer leaping back into a thicket at sight of a hunter.
                        Penniless at the fair, with Minny Hart waiting for him to take her into the
                        show! Few persons can realize how keenly he now felt the loss of his money.
                        He ought, no doubt, to have told the lass at once just how financial matters
                        stood; but nothing was more remote from his mind than doing anything of the
                        kind. He was too vain.
                    "Tell 'er I 'ain't got no money! No,
                        sir-ee!" he muttered. "But what am I to
                        do? Bust the luck! Hang the luck! Rot the luck!"
                    He hurried hither and thither, intent on nothing and taking no heed of the
                        course he pursued. His cheeks were livid and his eyes had in them that
                        painful, worried, wistful look so often seen in the eyes of men going home
                        from ruin on Wall street.
                    Meantime that sea of persons surged this  way
                        and that, flecked with a, foam of ribbons and dancing bubbles of hats, now
                        flowing slowly through the exhibition rooms a tide of critics, now breaking
                        into groups and scattered throngs of babblers, anon uniting to roar round
                        some novel engine suddenly set to work, or to break on the barrier of the
                        trolling ring into a spray of cravats and a mist of flounces. Swimming round
                        in this turbulent tide like a crazy flounder with but one fin, Jack finally
                        found himself hard by the pavilion of the minstrels. He could hear somewhat
                        of the side-splitting jokes, with the laughs that followed, the tinkle of
                        banjo accompaniments and the mellow cadences of plantation songs, the rattle
                        of castanets and the tattoo of the jig dancers' feet. A thirst like
                        the thirst of fever took hold of him.
                    "Come straight along gentlemen and ladies! This celebrated troupe is
                        now performing and twenty-five cents pays the bill! Only a quawtah of a
                        dollah!" bawled the fat crier from his lofty perch.
                        "That's right, my young man, take the young lady in!
                        She's sure to love you better; walk right along!" 
                            
                                "Her lip am sweet as sugah,
                                Her eye am bright as wine,
                                Dat yaller little boogah
                                Her name am Emiline!"
                            
                        
                         sung by four fine voices, came bubbling from
                        within. The music thrilled Jack to the bone, and he felt once more for his
                        money. Not a cent. This was bad.
                    "You're the lad for me," continued the fat man on
                        the high seat; "take your nice little sweetheart right in and let
                        her see the fun. Walk right in!"
                    Jack looked to see who it was, and a pang shot through his heart and settled
                        in the very marrow of his bones; for lo! arm in arm, Bill Powell and Minuy
                        Hart passed under the pavilion into the full glory of the show! 
                            
                                "O cut me up for fish bait
                                An' feed me to do swine,
                                Don't care where I goes to
                                So I has Emiline!"
                            
                         sang the minstrel chorus.
                    "Dast him, he's got me!" muttered. Jack as Bill
                        and Minny disappeared within. He turned away, sick at heart, and this was
                        far from the first throe of jealousy he had suffered on Bill's
                        account. Indeed it had given him no little uneasiness lately to see how
                        sweetly Minny sometimes smiled on young Powell.
                    "Yes, sir," Jack continued to mutter to himself,
                        "yes, sir, he's got me! He's about  three lengths ahead o' me, as these
                        hoss fellers says, an' I don't know but what I'm
                        distanced. Blow the blasted luck!"
                    Heartily tired of the fair, burning with rage, and jealousy, and despair, but
                        still vaguely hoping against hope for some better luck from some visionary
                        source, Jack strolled about, chewing the bitter cud of his feelings, his
                        hands up to his elbows in his trowser pockets and his soul up to its ears in
                        the flood of discontent. He puckered his mouth into whistling position, but
                        it refused to whistle. He felt as if he had a corn cob crossways in his
                        throat. The wind blew his new hat off and a mule kicked the top out of the
                        crown.
                    "Only a half a dollah! Who's the next lucky man?"
                        cried the prize package fellow. "I'm now going to sell a
                        new sort of packages, each of which, beside the usual amount of choice
                        candy, contains a piece of jewelry of pure gold! Who takes the first chance
                        for only a half a dollah?"
                    "'Ere's your mule!" answered Bill Powell,
                        as with Minny still clinging to his arm, he pushed through the crowd and
                        handed up the money.
                    "Bravely done!" shouted the crier; "see what a
                        beautiful locket and chain! Luck's a 
                        fortune! And who's the next to invest? Come right along and
                        don't be afraid of a little risk! Only a half a dollah!"
                    Jack saw Bill put the glittering chain round Minny's neck and fasten
                        the locket in her belt; saw the eyes of the sweet girl gleam proudly,
                        gratefully; saw black spots dancing before his own eyes; saw Bill swagger
                        and toss his head. He turned dizzily away, whispering savagely,
                        "Dern 'im!"
                    Just here let me say that such an expression is not a profane one. I once saw
                        a preacher kick at a little dog that got in his way on the sidewalk. The
                        minister's foot missed the little dog and hit an iron fence, and
                        the little dog bit the minister's other leg and jumped through the
                        fence. The minister performed a pas de zephyr and very
                        distinctly said "Dern 'im!" Wherefore I
                        don't think it can be anything more than a mere puff of
                        fretfulness.
                    After this Jack was for some time standing near the entrance to the
                        "glass-works," a place where transparent steam engines and
                        wonderful fountains were on exhibition. He felt a grim delight in
                        tantalizing himself with looking at the pictures of these things and wishing
                        he had money enough to pay the entrance fee. He saw persons pass in eagerly
                             and come out calm and satisfiedmen with
                        their wives and children, young men with girls on their arms, prominent
                        among whom were Bill and Minny, and one dapper sportsman even bought a
                        ticket for his setter, and, patting the brute on the head, took him in.
                    "Onery nor a dog!" hissed Jack, shambling off, and once
                        more taking a long deep dive under the surface of the crowd. A ground swell
                        cast him again near the vender of prize packages.
                    "Only a half a dollah!" he yelled; "come where
                        fortune smiles, and cares and poverty take flight, for only a half a
                        dollah!"
                    "Jist fifty cents more'n I've got about my
                        clothes!" replied Jack, and the bystanders, taking this for great
                        wit, joined in a roar of laughter, while with a grim smile the desperate
                        youth passed on till he found himself near the toe mark of a shooting
                        gallery, where for five cents one might have two shots with an air gun. He
                        stood there for a time watching a number of persons try their marksmanship.
                        It was small joy to know that he was a fine off-hand shot, so long as he had
                        not a nickel in his pocket, but still he stood there wishing he might try
                        his hand.
                    "Cl'ar the track here! Let this 'ere lady  take a shoot!" cried a familiar
                        voice; and a way was opened for Bill Powell and Minny Hart. The little
                        maiden was placed at the toe mark and a gun given to her. She handled the
                        weapon like one used to it. She raised it, shut one eye, took deliberate aim
                        and fired.
                    "Centre!" roared the marker, as to the sound of a bell the
                        funny little puppet leaped up and grinned above the target. Every body
                        standing near laughed and some of the boys cheered vociferously. Minny
                        looked sweeter than ever. Jack Trout felt famished. He begged a chew of
                        tobacco of a stranger, and, grinding the weed furiously, walked off to where
                        the yellow pavilion with its painted air-boats was whirling its cargoes of
                        happy boys and girls round and round for the "Small sum of ten
                        cents." A long, lean, red-headed fellow in one of the boats was
                        paying for a ride of limitless length by scraping on a miserable fiddle. To
                        Jack this seemed small labor for so much fun. How he envied the fiddler as
                        he flew round, trailing his tunes behind him!
                    "Wo'erp there! Stop yer old merchine!
                        "We'll take a ride ef ye don't keer!"
                    The pavilion was stopped, a boat lowered for Bill Powell and Minny Hart, who
                        got in side by side, and the fiddler struck up the  tune of "Black-eyed Susie." Jack watched that
                        happy couple go round and round, till, by the increased velocity, their two
                        faces melted into one, which was neither Bill's nor
                        Minny'sit was Luck's!
                    "He's got one onto me," muttered Jack;
                        "I've got no money, can't fiddle for a ride, nor
                        nothin', and I don't keer a ding what becomes o'
                        me, nohow!"
                    With these words Jack wended his way to a remote part of the fair ground,
                        where, under gay awnings, the sutlers had spread their tempting variety of
                        cakes, pies, fruits, nuts and loaves. Here were persons of all ages and
                        sizesmen, women and childreneating at well supplied tables. The sight was a
                        fascinating one, and, though seeing others eat did not in the least appease
                        his own hunger, Jack stood for a long time watching the departure of pies
                        and the steady lessening of huge pyramids of sweet cakes. He particularly
                        noticed one little table that had on its centre a huge peach pie, which
                        table was yet unoccupied. While he was actually thinking over the plan of
                        eating the pie and trusting to his legs to bear him beyond the reach of a
                        dun, Bill and Minny sat down by the table and proceeded to discuss the
                        delicious, red-hearted heap of pastry. At this point Bill caught
                        Jack's eye:
                    
                    "Come here, Jack," said he; "this pie's
                        more'n we can eat, come and help us."
                    "Yes, come along, Jack," put in Minny in her sweetest way;
                        "I want to tell you what a lot of fun we've had, and more
                        than that, I want to know why you didn't come back and take me into
                        the show!"
                    "I ain't hungry," muttered Jack, "and
                        besides I've got to go see a feller."
                    He turned away almost choking.
                    "Bill's got me. 'Taint no use talkin',
                        I'm played out for good. I'm a trumped Jack!"
                    He smiled a sort of flinty smile at his poor wit, and shuffled aimlessly
                        along through the densest clots of the crowd.
                    And it so continued to happen, that wherever Jack happened to stop for any
                        considerable length of time he was sure to see Bill and Minny enjoying some
                        rare treat, or disappearing in or emerging from some place of amusement.
                    At last, driven to desperation, he determined on trying to borrow a dollar
                        from his father. He immediately set about to find the old gentleman; a task
                        of no little difficulty in such a crowd. It was Jack's forlorn
                        hope, and it had a gloomy outlook; for old 'Squire Trout was
                        thought by competent judges to be the stingiest  man in the county. But hoping for the best, Jack hunted him here, there
                        and everywhere, till at length he met a friend who said he had seen the
                        'Squire in the act of leaving the fair ground for home just a few
                        minutes before.
                    Taking no heed of what folks might say, Jack, on receiving this intelligence,
                        darted across the ground, out at the gate and down the road at a speed
                        worthy of success; but alas! his hopes were doomed to wilt. At the first
                        turn of the road he met a man who informed him that he had passed
                        'Squire Trout some three miles out on his way home, which home was
                        full nine miles distant!
                    Panting, crestfallen, defeated, done for, poor Jack slowly plodded back to
                        the fair ground gate, little dreaming of the new trouble that awaited him
                        there.
                    "Ticket!" said a gruff voice as he was about to pass in. He
                        recoiled, amazed at his own stupidity, as he recollected that he had not
                        thought to get a check as he went out! He tried to explain, but it was no
                        go.
                    "You needn't try that game on me," said the
                        gatekeeper. "So just plank down your money or stay
                        outside."
                    Then Jack got furious, but the gatekeeper 
                        remarked that he had frequently "hearn it thunder afore
                        this!"
                    Jack smiled like a corpse and turned away. Going a short distance down the
                        road he climbed up and sat down on top of the fence of a late mown clover
                        field. Then he took out his jack-knife and began to whittle a splinter
                        plucked from a rail. His face was gloomy, his eyes lustreless. Finally he
                        stretched himself, hungry, jealous, envious, hateful, on top of the fence
                        with his head between the crossed stakes. His face thus upturned to heaven,
                        he watched two crows drift over, high up in the torrid reaches of autumn
                        air, hot as summer, even hotter, and allowed his lips free privilege to
                        anathematize his luck. For a long time he lay thus, dimly conscious of the
                        blue bird's song and the water-like ripple of the grass in the
                        fence corners. "Minny, Minny Hart, Minny!" sang the meadow
                        larks, and the burden of the grasshopper's ditty was"Only
                        a half a dollah!"
                    All at once there arose from the fair ground a mighty chorus of yells, that
                        went echoing off across the country to the bluffs of Wild-cat Creek and died
                        far off in the woods toward Greentown. Jack did not raise his head, but lay
                        there in a sort of morose stupor, knowing  well
                        that whatever the sport might be, he had no hand in it.
                    "Let 'em rip!" he muttered,
                        "Bill's got me!"
                    Presently the wagons and other vehicles began to leave the ground, from one
                        of which he caught the sound of a sweet, familiar voice. He looked just in
                        time to get a glimpse of Mr. Hart's wagon, and in it, side by side,
                        Bill Powell and Minny! A cloud of yellow dust soon hid them, and turning
                        away his head, happening to glance upward, Jack saw, just disappearing in a
                        thin white cloud, the golden disc of Le Papillon's balloon!
                    He immediately descended from his perch and began plodding his way home,
                        muttering as he did so
                    "Dast the luck! Ding the prize package feller! Doggone Bill Powell!
                        Blame the old b'loon! Dern everybody!"
                    It was long after nightfall when he reached his father's gate.
                        Hungry, weak, foot-sore, collapsed, he leaned his chin on the top rail of
                        the gate and stood there for a moment while the starlight fell around him,
                        sifted through the dusky foliage of the old beech trees, and from the far
                        dim caverns of the night a voice smote on his ear, cryiug out tenderly,
                        mockingly, persuasively
                    
                    "Only a half a dollah!"
                    And Jack slipped to his room and went supperless to bed, often during the
                        night muttering, through the interstices of his
                        sleep"Bill's got me!"
                
                
                
                    BIG MEDICINE.
                    THE corner brick storehousein fact the only brick building
                        in Jimtownwas to be sold at auction; and, consequently, by ten
                        o'clock in the morning, a considerable body of men had collected
                        near the somewhat dilapidated house, directly in front of which the
                        auctioneer, a fat man from Indianapolis, mounted on an old goods box, began
                        crying, partly through his tobacco-filled mouth and partly through his very
                        unmusical nose, as follows:
                    "Come up, gentlemen, and examine the new, beautiful and commodious
                        property I now offer for sale! Walk round the house, men, and view it from
                        every side. Go into it, if you like, up stairs and down, and then give me a
                        bid, somebody, to start with. It is a very desirable house, indeed,
                        gentlemen."
                    With this preliminary puff, the speaker paused and glanced slowly over his
                        audience with the air of a practiced physiognomist.  The crowd before him was, in many respects, au interesting one.
                        Its most prominent individual, and the hero of this sketch, was Dave Cook,
                        sometimes called Dr. Cook, but more commonly answering to the somewhat
                        savage sounding sobriquet of Big Medicinea man some thirty-five years of
                        age, standing six feet six in his ponderous boots; broad, bony, muscular, a
                        real giant, with a strongly marked Roman face, and brown, shaggy hair. He
                        was dressed in a soiled and somewhat patched suit of butternut jeans, topped
                        off with a wide rimmed wool hat, wonderfully battered, and lopped in every
                        conceivable way. He wore a watch, the chain of which, depending from the
                        waistband of his pants, was of iron, and would have weighed fully a pound
                        avoirdupois. He stood quite still, near the auctioneer, smoking a clay pipe,
                        his herculean arms folded on his breast, his feet far apart. As for the
                        others of the crowd, they were, taken collectively, about such as one used
                        always to see in the "dark corners" of Indiana, such as
                        Boone county used to be before the building of any railroads through it,
                        such as the particular locality of Jimtown was before the ditching law and
                        the I. B. & W. Railway had lifted the fog and enlightened the
                        miasmatic swamps  and densely timbered bog
                        lands of that region of elms, burr oaks, frogs and herons. Big Medicine
                        seemed to be the only utterly complacent man in the assembly. All the others
                        discovered evidences of much inward disturbance, muttering mysteriously to
                        each other, and casting curious, inquiring glances at an individual, a
                        stranger in the place, who, with a pair of queer green spectacles astride
                        his nose, and his arms crossed behind him, was slowly sauntering about the
                        building offered for sale, apparently examining it with some care. His
                        general appearance was that of a well dressed gentleman, which of itself was
                        enough to excite remark in Jimtown, especially when an auction was on hand,
                        and everybody felt jolly.
                    "Them specs sticks to that nose o' his'n like a
                        squir'l to a knot!" said one.
                    "His pantaloons is rather inclined to be knock-kneed," put
                        in an old, grimy sinner leaning on a single barrelled shot gun.
                    "Got lard enough onto his hair to shorten a mess o' pie
                        crust," added a liver colored boy.
                    "Walks like he'd swallered a fence rail, too,"
                        chimed in a humpbacked fellow split almost to his chin.
                    "Chaws mighty fine terbacker, you bet."
                    
                    "Them there boots o' his'n set goin'
                        an' comin' like a grubbin' hoe onto a crooked
                        han'le."
                    "Well, take'm up one side and down t'other,
                        he's a mod'rately onery lookin' feller."
                    These remarks were reckoned smart by those who perpetrated them, artel were
                        by no means meant for real slurs on the individual at whom they were
                        pointed. Indeed they were delivered in guarded undertones, so that he might
                        not hear them; and he, meanwhile, utterly ignorant of affording any sport,
                        continued his examination of the house, the while some happy frogs in a
                        neighboring pond rolled out a rattling, jubilant chorus, and the summer wind
                        poured through the leafy tops of the tall elms and athletic burr oaks with a
                        swash and roar like a turbulent river.
                    "What am I now offered for this magnificent property? Come, give me
                        a bid! Speak up lively! What do I hear for the house?"
                    The auctioneer, as he spoke, let his eyes wander up the walls of the old,
                        dingy building, to where the blue birds and the peewees had built in the
                        cracks and along the warped cornice and broken window frames, and just then
                        it chanced that a woman's face appeared at one of those staring
                        holes, which, with broken  lattice and
                        shattered glass, still might be called a window. The face was a plump,
                        cheerful one, the more radiant from contrast with the dull wall around ita
                        face one could never forget, however, and would recall often, if for nothing
                        but the fine fall of yellow hair that framed it in. It was a sweet, winning,
                        intellectual face, full of the gentlest womanly charms.
                    "Forty dollars for the house, 'oman and all!"
                        cried Big Medicine, gazing up at the window in which, for the merest moment,
                        the face appeared.
                    The man with the green spectacles darted a quick glance at the speaker.
                    "I am bid forty dollars, gentlemen, forty dollars, do all hear?
                        Agoing for forty dollars! "Who says fifty?" bawled the
                        auctioneer.
                    The crowd now swayed earnestly forward, closing in solid order around the
                        goods box. Many whiskered, uncouth, but not unkindly faces were upturned to
                        the window only in time to see the beautiful woman disappear quite hastily.
                    "Hooray for the gal!" cried a lusty youth, whose pale blue
                        eyes made no show of contrast with his faded hair and aguish complexion.
                        "Dad, can't ye bid agin the doctor so as I kin claim
                        'erf?"
                    
                    "Fifty dollars!" shouted the sunburnt man addressed as Dad.
                    This made the crowd lively. Every man nudged his neighbor, and the aguish,
                        blue-eyed boy grinned in a ghastly, self-satisfied way.
                    "Agoing at fifty dollars! Fiddlesticks! The house is worth four
                        thousand. No fooling here now! Agoing at only fifty dollarsgoing"
                    "Six hundred dollars," said he of the green glasses in a
                        clear, pleasant voice.
                    "Six hundred dollars!" echoed the auctioneer in a
                        triumphant thunderous tone. "That sounds like business. Who says
                        the other hundred?"
                    "Hooray for hooray, and hooray for hooray's
                        daddy!" shouted the tallow-faced lad.
                    The frogs pitched their song an octave higher, the blue birds and peewees
                        wheeled through the falling floods of yellow sunlight, and lower and sweeter
                        rose the murmur of the tide of pulsating air as it lifted and swayed the
                        fresh sprays of the oaks and elms. The well dressed stranger lighted a
                        cigar, took off his green glasses and put them carefully in his pocket, then
                        took a cool straight look at Big Medicine.
                    The Roman face of the latter was just then  a
                        most interesting one. It was expressive of more than words could rightly
                        convey. Six hundred dollars, cash down, was a big sum for the crazy old
                        house, but he had made up his mind to buy it, and now he seemed likely to
                        have to let it go or pay more than it was worth. The stem of his clay pipe
                        settled back full three inches into his firmly-set mouth, so that there
                        seemed imminent danger to the huge brown moustache that overhung the fiery
                        bowl. He returned the stare of the stranger with interest, and said
                    "Six hundred an' ten dollars."
                    "Agoing, a," began the auctioneer.
                    "Six twenty," said the stranger.
                    "Ago."
                    "Six twenty-one!" growled Big Medicine.
                    "Six twenty-five!" quickly added his antagonist.
                    Big Medicine glanced heavenward, and for a moment allowed his eyes to follow
                        the flight of a great blue heron that slowly winged its way, high up in the
                        yellow summer reaches of splendor, toward the distant swamps where the white
                        sycamores spread their fanciful arms above the dark green maples and dusky
                        witch-hazel thickets. The auctioneer, a close observer, saw an ashy hue, a
                        barely discernible  shade, ripple across the
                        great Roman face as Big Medicine said, in a jerking tone:
                    "Six twenty-five and a half!"
                    The stranger took his cigar from his mouth and smiled placidly. No more
                        imperturbable countenance could be imagined.
                    "Six twenty-six!" he said gently.
                    "Take the ole house an' be derned to you!" cried
                        Big Medicine, looking furiously at his antagonist. "Take the blamed
                        ole shacke-merack an' all the cussed blue-birds an'
                        peer-veers to boot, for all I keer!"
                    Everybody laughed, and the auctioneer continued:
                    "Agoing for six twenty-six! Who says seven hundred? Bid up lively!
                        Agoing once, agoing twiceonce, twice, three-e-e-e-e times! Sold to Abner
                        Golding for six hundred and twenty-six dollars, and as cheap as dirt
                        itself!"
                    "Hooray for the man who hed the most money!" shouted the
                        tallow-faced boy.
                    The sale was at an end. The auctioneer came down from his box and wiped his
                        face with a red handkerchief. The crowd, as if blown apart by a puff of
                        wind, scattered this way and that, drifting into small, grotesque groups to
                        converse together on whatever topic  might
                        happen to suggest itself. Big Medicine seemed inclined to be alone, but the
                        irrepressible youth of the saffron skin ambled up to him and said, in a tone
                        intended for comic:
                    "Golly, doctor, but didn't that 'ere gal projnce a
                        orful demand for the ole house! Didn't she set the ole trap off
                        when she peeked out'n the winder!"
                    Big Medicine looked down at the strapping boy, much as a lion might look at a
                        field rat or a weasel, then he doubled his hand into an enormous fist and
                        held it under the youth's nose, saying in a sort of growl as he did
                        so:
                    "You see this 'ere bundle o' bones, don't
                        ye?"
                    "Guess so," replied the youth.
                    "Well, would you like a small mess of it?"
                    "Not as anybody knows of."
                    "Well, then, keep yer derned mouth shet!"
                    Which, accordingly, the boy proceeded to do, ambling off as quickly as
                        possible.
                    About this time, the stranger, having put the green spectacles back upon his
                        nose, walked in the direction of 'Squire Tadmore's office,
                        accompanied by the young woman who had looked from the window. When Big
                        Medicine saw them he picked up a stick and began furiously to whittle it
                        with his jack-knife.  His face wore a comically
                        mingled look of chagrin, wonder, and something like a new and thrilling
                        delight. He putted out great volumes of smoke, making his pipe wheeze
                        audibly under the vigor of his draughts. He was certainly excited.
                    "Orful joke the boys 'll have on me arter this,"
                        he muttered to himself. "Wonder if the 'oman's
                        the feller's wife? Monstrous poorty, shore's yer
                        born!"
                    He soon whittled up one stick. He immediately dived for another, this time
                        getting hold of a walnut knot. A tough thing to whittle, but he attacked it
                        as if it had been a bit of white pine. Soon after this 'Squire
                        Tadmore's little boy came running down from his father's
                        office to where Big Medicine stood.
                    "Mr. Big Medicine," cried he, all out of breath,
                        "that 'ere man what bought the ole house wants to see you
                        partic'ler!"
                    "Mischief he does! Tell 'im to go to; no, wait a bit. Guess
                        I'll go tell 'im myself."
                    And, so saying, he moved at a slashing pace down to the door of the
                        'Squire's office. He thrust his great hirsute head inside
                        the room, and glaring at the mild mannered stranger, said:
                    "D'ye want to see me?"
                    
                    Mr. Golding got up from his seat and coming out took Big Medicine familiarly
                        by the arm, meanwhile smiling in the most friendly way.
                    "Come one side a little, I wish to speak with you privately,
                        confidentially."
                    Big Medicine went rather sulkily along. When they had gone some distance from
                        the house Mr. Goldiug lifted his spectacles from his nose, and turning his
                        calm, smiling eyes full upon those of Big Medicine, said, with a shrug of
                        his finely cut shoulders:
                    "I outbid you a, little, my friend, but I'm blessed if I
                        haven't got myself into a ridiculous scrape on account of
                        it."
                    "How so?" growled Big Medicine.
                    "Why, when I come to count my funds I'm short a half
                        dollar."
                    "You're what?"
                    "I lack just a half dollar of having enough money to pay for the
                        house, and I thought I'd rather ask you to loan me the money than
                        anybody else here."
                    Big Medicine stood for a time in silence, whittling away, as if for dear
                        life, on the curly knot. Dreamy gusts of perfumed heat swept by from
                        adjacent clover and wheat fields, where the blooms hung thick; little
                        whirlwinds played in the dust at their feet as little whirlwinds always  do in summer; and for away, faint, and made
                        tenderly musical by distance, were heard the notes of a country dinner-horn.
                        Big Medicine's ample chest swelled, and swelled, and then he burst
                        at the mouth with a mighty bass laugh, that went battling and echoing round
                        the place. Mr. Golding laughed too, in his own quiet, gentlemanly way. They
                        looked at each other and laughed, then looked of toward the swamps and
                        laughed. Big Medicine put his hands in his pockets almost up to the elbows,
                        and leaned back and laughed out of one corner of his mouth while holding his
                        pipe in the other.
                    "I say, mister," said he at length,
                        "a'n't you railly got but six hundred and
                        twenty-five an' a half?"
                    "Just that much to a cent, and no more," replied Mr.
                        Golding, with a comical smile and bow.
                    Big Medicine took his pipe from his month, gave the walnut knot he had
                        dropped a little kick and guffawed louder and longer than before. To have
                        been off at a little distance watching them would have convinced any one
                        that Mr. Golding was telling some rare anecdote, and that Big Medicine was
                        convulsed with mirth, listening.
                    "Well I'm derned if 'taint quare," cried
                        the  latter, wringing himself into all sorts of
                        grotesque attitudes in the ecstasy of his amusement. "You outbid me
                        half a dollar and then didn't have the half a dollar neither! Wha,
                        wha, wha-ee!" and his cachinnations sounded like rolling of
                        moderate thunder.
                    At the end of this he took out a greasy wallet and paid Mr. Golding the
                        required amount in silver coin. His chagrin had vanished before the
                        stranger's quiet way of making friends.
                    A week passed over Jimtown. A week of as rare June weather as ever lingered
                        about the cool places of the woods, or glimmered over the sweet clover
                        flelds all red with a blush of bloom, where the field larks twittered and
                        the buntings chirped, and where the laden bees rose heavily to seek their
                        wild homes in the hollows of the forests. By this time it was generally
                        known in Jimtown that Mr. Golding would soon receive a stock of goods with
                        which to open a "store" in the old corner brick; but Big
                        Medicine knew more than any of his neighbors, for he and Golding had formed
                        a partnership to do business tinder the "name and style"
                        of Cook & Golding.
                    This Abner Golding had lately been a wealthy retail man in Cincinnati, and
                        had lost everything by the sudden suspension of a bank  wherein the bulk of his fortune was on deposit. His creditors
                        had made a run on him and he had been able to save just the merest remnant
                        of his goods, and a few hundred dollars in money. Thus he came to Jimtown to
                        begin life and business anew.
                    To Big Medicine the week had been a long one; why, it would not be easy to
                        tell. No doubt there had come a turning point in his life. In those days,
                        and in that particular region, to be a 'store keeper' was
                        no small honor. But Big Medicine acted strangely. He wandered about, with
                        his hands in his pockets, whistling plaintive tunes, and often he was seen
                        standing out before the old corner brick, gazing up at one of the vacant
                        windows where pieces of broken lattice were swaying in the wind. At such
                        times he muttered softly to himself:
                    "Ther's wher I fust seed the gal."
                    Four big road wagons (loaded with boxes), three of them containing the
                        merchandise and one the scanty household furniture of Mr. Golding and his
                        daughter Carrie, came rumbling into Jimtown. Big Medicine was on hand, a
                        perfect Hercules at unloading and unpacking. Mr. Golding was sadly pleasant;
                        Carrie was roguishly observant, but womanly and quiet.
                    
                    The tallow-faced youth and two or three others stood by watching the
                        proceedings. The former occasionally made a remark at which the others never
                        failed to laugh.
                    "Ef ye'll notice, now," said he,
                        "it's a fac 'at whenever Big Medicine goes to
                        make a big surge to lift a box, he fust takes a peep at the gal,
                        an' that 'ere seems to kinder make 'im
                        'wax strong an' multiply,' as the preacher says,
                        an' then over goes the box!"
                    "Has a awful effect on his narves," some one replied.
                    "I'm a thinkin'," added tallow-face,
                        "'at ef Big Medicine happens to look at the gal about the
                        time he goes to make a trade, it 'll have sich a power on
                        'im 'at he'll sell a yard o' caliker for
                        nigh onto forty dollars!"
                    "Er a blanket overcoat for 'bout twelve an' a half
                        cents!" put in another.
                    "I'm kinder weakly," resumed tallow-face with a
                        comical leer at Big Medicine; "wonder if 't
                        wouldn't be kinder strengthnin' on me ef I'd
                        kinder sidle up towards the gal myself?"
                    "I'll sidle up to you!" growled Big Medicine; and
                        making two strides of near ten feet each, he took the youth by his faded
                        flaxen hair, and holding him clear of the ground, administered a half dozen
                        or so of resounding  kicks, then tossed him to
                        one side, where he fell in a heap on the ground. When he got on his feet
                        again he began to bristle up and show fight, but when Big Medicine reached
                        for him he ambled off.
                    In due time the goods were all placed on the shelves and Mr.
                        Golding's household furniture arranged in the upper rooms where he
                        purposed living, Carrie acting as housekeeper.
                    On the first evening after all things had been put to rights, Mr. Golding
                        said to Big Medicine:
                    "I suppose we ought to advertise."
                    "Do how?"
                    "Advertise."
                    "Sartinly," said Big Medicine, having not the faintest idea
                        of what his partner meant.
                    "Who can we get to paint our fence advertisements?"
                    A gleam of intelligence shot from Big Medicine's eyes. He knew now
                        what was wanted. He remembered once, on a visit to Crawfordsville, seeing
                        these fence advertisements. He comprehended in a moment.
                    "O, I know what ye mean, now," he said, with a grin, as if
                        communing with himself on some, novel suggestion. "I guess I kin
                        'tend to that my own self. The moon shines to-night, don't
                        it?"
                    
                    "Yes; why?"
                    "I'll do the paintin' to-night. A good ijee has
                        jist struck me. You jist leave it all to me."
                    So the thing was settled, and Big Medicine was gone all night.
                    The next day was a sluice of rain. It poured incessantly from daylight till
                        dark. Big Medicine sat on the counter in the corner brick and chuckled. His
                        thoughts were evidently very pleasant ones. Mr. Golding was busy marking
                        goods and Carrie was helping him. The great grey eyes of Big Medicine
                        followed the winsome girl all the time. When night came, and she went up
                        stairs, he said to Golding:
                    "That gal o' your'n is a mighty smart little
                        'oman."
                    "Yes, and she's all I have left," replied Mr.
                        Golding in a sad tone.
                    Big Medicine stroked his brown beard, whistled a few turns of a jig tune,
                        and, jumping down from the counter, went out into the drizzly night. A few
                        rods from the house he turned and looked up at the window. A little form was
                        just vanishing from it.
                    "Ther's wher I fust seed the gal," he murmured,
                        then turned and went his way, occupied with strange, sweet imaginings. As a
                        matter  of the merest conjecture, it is
                        interesting to dwell upon the probable turn taken by his thoughts as he
                        slowly stalked through the darkness and rain that night; but I shall not
                        trench on what, knowing all that I do, seems sanctified and hallowed. It
                        would be breaking a sacred confidence. Who has stood and watched for a form
                        at a window? Who has expressed, in language more refined, to the inner
                        fountain of human sympathy, the idea conveyed in the rough fellow's
                        remark? Who that has, let him recall the time and the place holy in his
                        memory.
                    "Ther's wher I fust seed the gal," said the man,
                        and went away to his lonely bed to dream the old new dream. All night the
                        rain fell, making rich music on the roof and pouring through his healthy
                        slumber a sound like the flowing of strange rivers in a land of new
                        delightsa land into which he had strayed hand in hand with some one, the
                        merest touch of whose hand was rapture, the simplest utterance of whose
                        voice was charming beyond expression. The old new dream. The dream of flesh
                        that is divinethe vision of blood that is love's winethe apocalypse
                        that bewildered the eyes of the old singer when from a flower of foam in the
                        sweet green sea rose  the Cytherean Venus. We
                        have all dreamed the dream and found it sweet.
                    It is quite probable that no fence advertisements ever paid as well, or
                        stirred up as big a "muss" as those painted by Big
                        Medicine on the night mentioned heretofore. As an artist our Hoosier was not
                        a genius, but he certainly understood how to manufacture a notoriety. If
                        space permitted I would copy all those rude notices for your inspection; but
                        I must be content with a few random specimens taken from memory, with an eye
                        to brevity. They are characteristic of the man and in somewhat an index of
                        the then state of society in and around Jimtown. On Deacon Jones's
                        fence was scrawled the following: "Dern yer ole sole, ef yer want
                        good Koffy go to Cook & Golding's nu stoar."
                    John Butler, a nice old quaker, had the following daubed on his gate:
                        "Yu thievin' duk-legged ya and na ole cuss, ef the sperit
                        muves ye, go git a broad-brimmed straw hat at Cook &
                        Golding's great stand at Jimtown." The side of William
                        Smith's pig pen bore this: "Bill, ye ornery sucker, come
                        traid with Cook & Golding at the ole corner brick in
                        Jimtown." Old Peter Gurley found writing to the following effect on
                        his new wagon bed: "Ef  yoor dri or
                        anything, you'll find a virtoous Kag of ri licker at Cook &
                        Golding's." On a large plank nailed to a tree at
                        Canaan's Cross Roads all passers by saw the following:
                        "Git up an brindle! Here's yer ole and faithful mewl! Come
                        in gals and git yer dofunny tricks and fixens, hats, caps, bonnets,
                        parrysols, silk petty-coat-sleeves and other injucements too noomerous too
                        menshen! Rip inwe're on it! Call at Cook &
                        Golding's great corner brick!"
                    These are fair specimens of what appeared everywhere. How one man could have
                        done so much in one night remains a mystery. Some people swore, some
                        threatened to prosecute, but finally everybody went to the corner brick to
                        trade. Jimtown became famous on account of Big Medicine and the corner brick
                        store.
                    The sun rose through the morning gate beyond the quagmires east of Jimtown
                        and set through the evening gate past the ponds and maple swamps to the
                        west. The winds blew and there were days of calm. The weather ran through
                        its mutations of heat and cold. The herons flew over, the blue birds
                        twittered and went away and came again, and the pee-wees disappeared and
                        returned. A whole year had rolled round and it was June again, with  the air full of rumors about the building of a
                        railroad through Jimtown.
                    During this flow of time Big Medicine had feasted his eyes on the bright
                        curls and brighter eyes of Carrie Golding, till his heart; had become tender
                        and happy as a child's. They rarely conversed more than for him to
                        say, "Miss Carrie, look there," or for her to call out,
                        "Please, Mr. Cook, hand me down this bolt of muslin." But
                        Big Medicine was content.
                    It was June the 8th, about ten o'clock in the morning, and Big
                        Medicine was slowly making his way from his comfortable bachelor's
                        cabin to the corner brick. A peculiar smile was on his face, his heart was
                        fluttering strangely, and all on account of a little circumstance of the
                        preceding day, now fresh in his memory. Great boy that he was, he was poring
                        over a single sweet smile Carrie Golding had given him!
                    The mail hack stood at the post-office door, whence Mr. Golding was coming
                        with a letter in his hand. Big Medicine stopped and looked up at the window.
                        There stood Carrie. She was looking hopefully toward her father. Big
                        Medicine smiled and murmured:
                    "Ther's wher I fust seed the galbless her sweet
                        soul!" There was a whole world of sincere happiness in the tones of
                        his voice.
                    
                    Mr. Golding passed him hastily, his green spectacles on his nose, and a great
                        excitement flashing from his face. Big Medicine gazed wonderingly after his
                        partner till he saw him run up stairs to Carrie's room. Then he
                        thought he heard Carrie cry out joyfully, but it may have been the wind.
                    When an hour had passed Mr. Golding and Carrie came down dressed for
                        travelling. How strangely, wondrously beautiful the girl now looked! Mr.
                        Golding was as nervous as an old woman. He rubbed his thin white hands
                        together rapidly and said:
                    "Mr. Cook, I have glorious news this morning!"
                    "And what mought it be?" asked Big Medicine, as a damp
                        chilliness crept over him, and his face grew pinched and almost as white as
                        his shirt bosom.
                    "Krofton & Kelly, the bankers, have resumed payment, and
                        I'll get all my money! It is glorious news, is it
                        not, iny friend?"
                    Big Medicine was silent. He tried to speak, but his mouth was dry and
                        powerless. A mist drifted across his eyes. He hardly realized where he was
                        or what was said, but he knew all.
                    "I have concluded to give you this house and  all my interest in this store. You must not refuse. I
                        haven't time to make the transfer now, but I'll not
                        neglect it. Carrie and I must hasten at once to Cincinnati. The hack is
                        waiting; so good bye, my dear friend, God bless you!" Mr. Golding
                        wrung his partner's cold, limp hand, without noticing how fearfully
                        haggard that Roman face had suddenly grown.
                    "Good bye, Mr. Cook," said Carrie in her sweet, sincere
                        way. "I'm real sorry to leave you and the dear old
                        housebutbutgood bye, Mr. Cook. Come to see us in Cincinnati. Good
                        bye." She gave him her hand also.
                    He smiled a wan, flickering smile, like the last flare of a fire whose fuel
                        is exhausted. Carrie's woman's heart sank under that look,
                        though she knew not wherefore.
                    The hack passed round the curve of the road.
                    They were gone!
                    Big Medicine stood alone in the door of the corner brick. lie looked back
                        over his shoulders at the well filled shelves and muttered:
                    "She ain't here, and what do I want of the denied old
                        store?"
                    The wind rustled the elm leaves and tossed the brown locks of the man over
                        his great forehead; the blue birds sang on the roof; the  dust rose in little columns along the street;
                        and, high over head, in the yellow mist of the fine June weather, sailed a
                        great blue heron, going to the lakes. Big Medicine felt like one deserted
                        ill the wilderness. He stood there a while, then closed and locked the door
                        and went into the woods. A month passed before he returned. Jimtown wondered
                        and wondered. But when he did return his neighbors could not get a word out
                        of him. He was silent, moody, listless. Where had he been? Only hunting for
                        Mr. Golding and Carrie. He found them, after a long search, in a splendid
                        residence on the heights just out of Cincinnati. Mr. Golding greeted him
                        cordially, but somehow Big Medicine felt as though he were shaking hands
                        with some one over an insurmountable barrier. That was not the Mr. Golding
                        he had known.
                    "Carrie is out in the garden. She will be glad to see you. Go along
                        the hall there. You will see the gate."
                    Mr. Golding waved his hand after the manner of a very rich man, and a
                        patronizing tone would creep into his voice. Somehow Big Medicine looked
                        terribly uncouth.
                    With a hesitating step and a heart full of unreal sensations, Big Medicine
                        opened the  little gate and strode into the
                        flower garden. Suddenly a vision, such as his fancy had never pictured,
                        burst on his dazzled eyes. Flowers and vines and statues and fountains; on
                        every hand rich colors; perfumes so mixed and intensified that his senses
                        almost gave way; long winding walks; fairy-like bowers and music. He paused
                        and listened. A heavy voice, rich and manly, singing a balladsome popular
                        love songto the sweet accompaniment of a violin, and blended through it all,
                        like a silvery thread, the low sweet voice of Carrie Golding. The poor
                        fellow held his breath till the song was done.
                    Two steps forward and Big Medicine towered above the lovers.
                    Carrie sprang to her feet with a startled cry; then, recognizing the
                        intruder, she held out her little hand and welcomed him. Turning to her
                        lover she said:
                    "Henry, this is Mr. Cook, lately papa's partner in
                        Indiana."
                    The lover was a true gentleman, so he took the big hard hand of the visitor
                        and said he was glad to see him.
                    Big Medicine stood for a few moments holding a hand of each of the lovers.
                        Presently a tremor took possession of his burly frame. He did not speak a
                        word. His breast swelled  and his face grew
                        awfully white. He put Carrie's hand in that of her lover and turned
                        away. As he did so a tear, a great bitter drop, rolled down his haggard
                        cheek. A few long strides and Big Medicine was gone.
                    Shrilly piped the blue birds, plaintively sang the peewees, sweetly through
                        the elms and burr oaks by the corner brick blew the fresh summer wind, as,
                        just at sunset, Big Medicine once more stood in front of the old building
                        with his eyes fixed on the vacant, staring window.
                    It was scarcely a minute that lie stood there, but long enough for a tender
                        outline of the circumstances of the past year to rise in his memory.
                    A rustling at the broken lattice, a sudden thrill through the iron frame of
                        the watching man, a glimpse of a sweet faceno, it was only a fancy. The
                        house was still, and old and desolate. It stared at him like a
                        death's head.
                    Big Medicine raised his eyes toward heaven, which was now golden and flashing
                        resplendently with sunset glories. High up, as if almost touching the calm
                        sky, a great blue heron was toiling heavily westward. Taking the course
                        chosen by the lone bird, Big Medicine went away, and the places that knew
                        him once know him no more forever.
                
                
                
                    THE VENUS OF BALHINCH.
                    WHEN I returned from Europe with a finished education, I
                        found that my fortune also was finished in the most approved modern style,
                        so I left New York and drifted westward in search of employment. At length I
                        came to Indiana, and, having not even a cent left, and mustering but one
                        presentable suit of clothes, I looked about me in a hungry, half desperate
                        sort of way, till I pounced upon, the school in Balhinch. Now Balhinch is
                        not a town, nor a cross-road place, nor a post-officeit is simply a
                        neighborhood in the southwestern corner of Union Township, Montgomery
                        Countya neighborhood sui generis, stowed away in the
                        breaks of Sugar Creek, containing as good, quiet, law-abiding folk as can be
                        found anywhere outside of Switzerland. My school was a small one in numbers,
                        but the pupils ranged from four to six feet three in altitude, and well
                        proportioned. The most advanced class had thumbed along pretty well through
                             the spelling book. I need not take up your
                        time with the school, however, for it has nothing at all to do with my
                        story, excepting merely to explain how I came to be in Balhinch, in the
                        State of Indiana.
                    My first sight of Susie Adair was on Sunday at the Methodist prayer meeting.
                        I was sitting with my back to a window and facing the door of the log
                        meeting house when she entered. It was Julya hot glary day, but a steady
                        wind blew cool and sweet from the southwest, bringing in all sorts of
                        woodland odors. The grasshoppers were chirruping in the little timothy field
                        hard by, and over in a bit of woodland pasture a swarm of blue jays were
                        worrying a crow, keeping up an incessant squeaking and chattering. The dumpy
                        little class leaderthe only little man in Balhinchhad just begun to give out
                        the hymn 
                            
                                "Love is the sweetest bud that blows,
                                Its beauties never die,
                                On earth among the saints it grows
                                And ripens in the sky,"
                                &c.,
                            
                         when Susie came in. Ben Crane was sitting by me. He nudged me with his
                        elbow and I whispered:
                    "How's that 'ere for poorty?"
                    I made him no answer, but remained staring  at
                        the girl till long after she had taken her seat. Nature plays strange
                        tricks. Susie, the daughter of farmer Adair, was as beautiful in the face as
                        any angel could be, and her form was as perfect as that of the Cnidian
                        Venus. Her motion when she walked was music, and as she sat in statuesque
                        repose, the undulations of her queenly form were, those of perfect ease,
                        grace and strength. Her hands were small and taper, a little browned from
                        exposure, as was also her face. Her hair was the real classic gold, and her
                        grey eyes were riant with health and content. When her red lips parted to
                        sing, they discovered small even teeth, as white as ivory. I can give you no
                        idea of her. Physically she was perfection's self in the mould of a
                        Venus of the grandest type. Her head, too, was an intellectual one (though
                        feminine), in the best sense of the word. The first thought that flashed
                        across my mind was embodied in the wordsA Venusand I still
                        think of her as the best model I ever saw.
                    "How's that for poorty?" repeated Crane.
                    "Who is she?" I replied interrogatively.
                    "She's my jewlarker," said he.
                    "Your what?"
                    "My sweetheart."
                    "What is her name?"
                    
                    "Susie Adair."
                    So I came to know her and admire her, and even before that little prayer
                        meeting was over I loved her. Introductions were an unknown institution in
                        Balhinch, but I was not long in finding a way to the personal acquaintance
                        of Susie. I found her remarkably intelligent for one of her limited
                        opportunities, very fond of reading, sprightly in conversation, womanly,
                        modest, sweet tempered, and, indeed, altogether charming as well as superbly
                        beautiful.
                    As for me, I am an insignificant looking man, and then I was even more so
                        than now. My hair is terribly stiff and red, you know, and my eyes are very
                        pale blue, nearly white. My neck is very long and has a large
                        Adam's apple. I am small and narrow chested, and have slender bow
                        legs. My teeth are uneven and my nose is pug. I have a very fine thin voice,
                        decidedly nasal, as you perceive. One thing, however, I am well educated,
                        polite, and not a bad conversationalist.
                    Susie was a most entertaining and perplexing study for me from the start. She
                        treated me with decided consideration and kindness, seemed deeply interested
                        in my accounts of my travels, asked me many questions about the old world
                        and good society, sat for hours at a  time
                        listening to me as I read aloud. In fact I felt that I was impressing her
                        deeply, but she would go with Ben Crane, that long, awkward, ignorant gawk.
                        How could a young woman of such fine magnetic presence, and endowed with
                        such genuine, instinctive purity of taste in everything else, bear the
                        presence of a rough greenhorn like that? Finally I said to myself: she is
                        kind and good; she cannot bear to slight Ben, though she cares nothing for
                        him.
                    What a strange state being in love is! It is like dreaming in the grass. One
                        hears the flow of the windit is the breath of loveone smells the flowers,
                        and it is the perfume of a young cheek, the sharp fragrance of blonde curls.
                        What dreams I had in those days! I could scarcely endure my school to the
                        end of the first three months. Then I gave it up, and collecting my wages
                        purchased me some fine clothesthat is, fine for the time and the place. I
                        recollect that suit now, and wonder how a man of my taste could have borne
                        to wear it. A black coat, a scarlet vest and white pants, ending with calf
                        boots and a very tall silk hat! If you should see me dressed that way now
                        you would laugh till your ribs would hurt. I do not know how true it is,
                        but, from a pretty  good source, I heard that
                        Ben Crane said I looked like a red-headed woodpecker. One thing I do know, I
                        never saw a woodpecker with a freckled face. I have a freckled face.
                    Ben soon recognized me as his rival and treated me with supreme impertinence,
                        even going so far as to rub his fist under my nose and swear at mea thing at
                        which I felt profoundly indignant, and considering which I was surely
                        justified in sticking alucifer match into Ben's six valuable hay
                        stacks one night thereafter. It was a great fire, and two hundred dollars
                        loss to Ben. Let him keep his fist out from under my nose.
                    But I must come to my story, cutting short these preliminaries. It is a story
                        I never tire of telling, and a story which has elicited ejaculations from
                        many.
                    It was a ripe sweet day in the latter part of Septemberclear, but hazy and
                        dreamfula prelude to the Indian summer. I stood before the glass in my room
                        at 'Squire Jones's, where I boarded, and very carefully
                        arranged my bright blue neck-tie. Then I combed my hair. I never have got
                        thoroughly familiar with my hair. I cannot, even now, comb it, while looking
                        in a glass, without cringing for fear of burning my fingers. The long, wavy
                        red locks  flow through the comb like flames,
                        and underneath is a gleam of live coals and red hot ashes. Ben Crane said he
                        believed my head had set his hay stacks a fire. Maybe it did I wished that a
                        stray flash from the same source would kindle the heart of Susie Adair and
                        heat it until it lay under her Cytherean breasts a puddle of molten love. I
                        put my silk hat carefully upon my head and wriggled my hands into a pair of
                        kid gloves; then, walking-stick in hand, I set out to know my fate at the
                        hands of Susie. My way was across a stubble field in which the young clover,
                        sown in the spring, displayed itself in a variety of fantastic modes. Have
                        yon ever noticed how much grass is like water? Some one, Hawthorne, perhaps,
                        has spoken of "a gush of violets," and Swinburne, going
                        into one of his musical frenzies, cries:
                    
                        "Where tides of grass break into foam of
                            flowers."
                    
                    I have seen pools of clover and streams of timothy; I have stood ankle deep
                        in shoal blue grass and have watched for hours the liquid ripples of the red
                        top. I have seen the field sparrows dive into the green waves of young
                        wheat, and the black starlings wade about in the sink-foil of southern
                        countries.  Grass is a liquid that washes
                        earth's face till it shines like that of a clean, healthy child.
                        But clover prefers to stand in pools and eddies, in which oft and oft I have
                        seen the breasts of meadow larks shine like gold, the while a few sweet
                        notes, like rung silver, rose and trembled above the trefoil, all woven, in
                        and out, through the swash of the wind's palpitant currentsa music
                        of unspeakable influence. Swallows skim the surface of grass just as they do
                        that of water. When the summer air agitates the smooth bosom of a broad
                        green meadow field, you will see these little random arrows glancing along
                        the emerald surface, cutting with barbed wings through the tossing,
                        bloom-capped waves, thence ricochetting high into the bright air to whirl
                        and fall again as swiftly as before. Many a time I have traced streams of
                        grass to their fresh fountains, where jets of tender foliage and bubbles of
                        tinted flowers welled up from dark, rich earth, and flowed away, with a
                        velvet rustle and a ripple like blown floss, to break and recoil and eddy
                        against the dark shadows of a distant grove. Such a fountain is a place of
                        fragrance and joy. The bees go thither to get the sweetest honey, and find
                        it a very Hybla. The butterflies float about it  in a dreamful trance, while in the cool, damp shade of a dock leaf squats
                        a great toad, like a slimy dragon guarding the gate of a paradise.
                    As I slowly walked across that stubble field, now and then stepping into a
                        tuft of clover, out from which a quail would start, whirling away in a
                        convulsion of flight, I allowed dreams of bliss to steal rosily across my
                        brain. I scarcely saw the great gold-sharded beetles that hummed and glanced
                        in the mellow sunlight. I heard like one half asleep, as if far away, the
                        sharp twitter of the blue bird and the tender piping of the meadow lark.
                        Susie Adair was all my thought. I recollect that, just as I climbed the
                        fence at the farther side of the clover field, I saw a white winged, red
                        headed woodpecker pounce upon and carry off a stany opal-tinted butterfly,
                        and I thought how sweet it would be if I could thus steal away into the free
                        regions of space the object of my gentler passion. But then what wonderful
                        big wings I should have needed, for my Venus of the hollow of the hill of
                        Balhinch was no airy thing. Her tall, strong body and magnificent limbs
                        equalled one hundred and forty pounds avoirdupois! My own weight was about
                        one hundred and twenty.
                    As I neared Susie's home I began, for the  first time in my life, to suffer from palpitation. The shadow
                        of a doubt floated in the autumn sunlight. I set my teeth together and
                        resolved not to be faint hearted. I must go in boldly and plead my cause and
                        win.
                    When I reached the gate of the Adair farmhouse I had to look straight over
                        the head of a very large, sanctimonious-faced bull-dog to get a view of the
                        vine covered porch. This dog looked up at me and smiled ineffably; then he
                        came to the gate and stood over against me, peeping between the slats. I
                        hesitated. About this time Ben Crane came out of the house with a banjo in
                        his hand. He had been playing for Susie. He was a natural musician.
                    "'Feared o' the dog, Mr. Woodpecker?"
                        said he. "Begone, Bull!" and he kicked the big-headed
                        canine aside so that I could go in.
                    I heard him thrumming on his banjo far down the road as Susie met me at the
                        door. How wondrously beautiful she was!
                    "Sit down Mr., and, if you do not care, I'll bring the
                        churn in and finish getting the butter while we talk."
                    I was delightedI was charmedfascinated. Susie's father had gone to a
                        distant village, and her mother, a gentle work-worn matron,  was in the other room spinning flax, humming,
                        meantime, snatches of camp meeting hymns. The sound of that spinning-wheel
                        seemed to me strangely mournful and sad, but Susie's deep, clear
                        gray eyes and cheerful voice were the very soul of joyousness, health and
                        youth. She brought in a great fragrant cedar churn, made to hold six or
                        eight gallons of cream, and forthwith began her labor. She stood as she
                        worked, and the exercise throwing her entire body into gentle but
                        well-defined motion, displayed all the riches of her contour. The sleeves of
                        her calico gown were rolled up above the elbows, leaving her plump, muscular
                        arms bare, and her skirt was pinned away from her really small feet and
                        shapely ankles in such a way as to give one an idea, a suggestion, of
                        supreme innocence and grace. Her long, crinkled gold hair was unbound,
                        hanging far below her waist, and shining like silk. Her lips, carmine red,
                        seemed to overflow with tender utterances.
                    Ever since that day I have thought churning a kind of sacred, charmingly
                        blessed work, which ought to be, if really it is not, the pastime of those
                        delightful beings the ancients called deities. Cream is more fragrant, more
                        delicious, more potent than nectar or ambrosia.  A cedar churn is more delicately perfumed than any patera of the gods.
                        And, I say it with reverence, I have seen, swaying lily-like above the
                        churn, a beauty more perfect than that which bloomed full grown from the
                        bright focus of the sea's ecstatic travail.
                    What a talk Susie and I had that day! Slowly, stealthily I crept nearer and
                        nearer to the subject burning in my heart. I watched Susie closely, for her
                        face was an enigma to me. I never think of her and of that day without
                        recalling Baudelaire's dream of a giantess. More happy than the
                        poet, I really saw my colossal beauty stand full grown before me, but, like
                        him, I wondered
                    
                        * * * "Si son cur couve une sombre flamme
                        Aux humides brouillards qui nagent dans ses yeux."
                    
                    I could not tell, from any outward sign, what was going on in her heart. No
                        sphinx could have been more utterly calm and mysterious. She had a most
                        baffling way about her, too. When at last I had reached the point of a
                        confession of my maddening love, she broke into one of my charmingest
                        sentences to say
                    "Mr., you'd better move farther away from the churn or I
                        might spatter your clothes."
                    This, somehow, disconcerted and bothered  me.
                        But Susie was so calm and sweet about it, her gray eyes beamed so
                        mysteriously innocent of any impropriety, that I soon regained my lost
                        eloquence.
                    How sharply and indelibly cut in my memory, like intaglios in ivory, the
                        surroundings of that scene, eveu to the minutest detail! For instance, I can
                        see as plainly as then my new silk hat on the floor between my knees,
                        containing a red handkerchief and a paper of chewing tobacco. I recall,
                        also, that a slip-trod shoe lay careened to one side near the centre of the
                        room. The bull-dog came to the door and peeped solemnly in a time or two. A
                        string of dried pumpkin cuts hung by the fireplace, and under a small wooden
                        table in one corner were piled a few balls of "carpet
                        rags." I sat in a very low chair. A picture of George Washington
                        hung above a small square window. The floor was ash boards uncarpeted. I
                        heard some chickens clucking and cackling under the house.
                    Finally, I recollect it as if it were but yesterday, I said:
                    "I love you, SusieI love you, and I have loved you ever since I
                        first saw you!"
                    How tame the words sound now! but then they came forth in a tremulous murmur
                        that  gave them character and power. Susie
                        looked straight at me a moment, and I thought I saw a softer light gather in
                        her eyes. Then she took away the churn dasher and lid and fetched a large
                        bowl from a cupboard. What a fine golden pile of butter she fished up into
                        the bowl!
                    I drew my chair somewhat nearer, and watched her pat and roll and squeeze the
                        plastic mass with the cherry ladle. A little gray kitten came and rubbed and
                        purred round her. Again the bull-dog peeped in. A breeze gathered some force
                        and began to ripple pleasantly through the room. Far away in the fields I
                        heard the quails whistling to each other. An old cow strolled up the lane by
                        the house and round the corner of the orchard, plaintively tinkling her
                        bell. Steadily hummed Mrs. Adairs spinning wheel. I slipped my hat and my
                        chair a little closer to Susie, and by a mighty effort directed my burning
                        words straight to the point. I cannot repeat all I said. I would not if I
                        could. Such things are sacred.
                    "Susie, I love you, madly, blindly, dearly, truly! O, Susie! will
                        you love mewill you be my wife?"
                    Again she turned on me that strange, sweet, 
                        half smiling look. Her lips quivered. The flush on her cheeks almost died
                        out.
                    "Answer me, Susie, and say you will make me happy."
                    She walked to the cupboard, put away the bowl of butter and the ladle, then
                        came back and stood by the churn and me. How indescribably charming she
                        looked! She smiled strangely and made a motion with her round strong arms. I
                        answered the movement. I spread wide my arms and half rose to clasp her to
                        my bosom. A whole life was centred in the emotion of that moment.
                        Susie's arms missed me and lifted the churn. I sank back into my
                        chair. How gracefully Susie swayed herself to her immense height, toying
                        with the ponderous churn held far above her head. I saw a kitten fairly fly
                        out of the room, its tail as level as a gun barrel; I saw the
                        bull-dog's face hastily withdraw from the door; I saw the carpet
                        balls, the pumpkin cuts and the print of Washington all through a
                        perpendicular cataract of deliciously fragrant buttermilk! I saw my hat fill
                        up to the brim, with my handkerchief afloat. I heaved an awful sigh and
                        leaped to my feet. I saw old Mrs. Adair standing in the partition door, with
                        her arms akimbo, and heard her say
                    
                    "W'y, Susan Jane Samantha Ann! What 'pon airth hev
                        ye done?"
                    And the Venus replied:
                    "I've been givin' this 'ere little
                        woodpecker a good dose of buttermilk!"
                    I seized my hat and shuffled out of the door, feeling the milk gush from the
                        tops of my boots at each hasty step I made. I ran to the gate, went through
                        and slammed it after me. As I did so I heard a report like the closing of a
                        strong steel trap. It was the bull-dog's teeth shutting ou a slat
                        of the gate as he made a dive at me from behind. I smiled grimly, thinking
                        how I'd taste served in buttermilk.
                    On my way home I passed Ben Crane's house. He was sitting at a
                        window playing his banjo, and singing in a stentorian voice:
                    
                        "O! Woodpecker Jim,
                        Yer chance is mighty slim!
                        Jest draw yer red head into yer hole
                        And there die easy, dern your soul,
                        O! slim "Woodpecker Jim!"
                    
                    I was so mad that I sweat great drops of pure buttermilk, but over in the
                        fields the quails whistled just as clear and sweet as ever, and I heard the
                        wind pouring through the stubble as it always does in autumn!
                
                
                
                    THE LEGEND OF POTATO GREEK.
                    BIG yellow butterflies were wheeling about in the drowsy
                        summer air, and hovering above the moist little sand bars of Potato Creek. A
                        shady dell, wrapped in the hot lull of August, sent up the spires and domes
                        of its walnut and poplar trees, clearly defined and sheeny, while underneath
                        the forest roof the hazel and wild rose bushes had wrung themselves into
                        dusky mats. The late violets bloomed here and there, side by side with those
                        waxlike yellow blossoms, called by the country folk "butter and
                        eggs." Through this dell Potato Creek meandered fantastically,
                        washing bare the roots of a few gnarled sycamores, and murmuring among the
                        small bowlders that almost covered its bed. It was not a strikingly romantic
                        or picturesque placerather the contrarymuch after the usual type of ragged
                        little dells. "A scrubby little holler" the neighborhood
                        folk called it.
                    
                    Perched on the topmost tangle of the dry, tongh roots of an old upturned
                        tree, sat little Bose Turpin, sixteen that very August day; pretty, nay
                        beautiful, her school life just ended, her womanhood just beginning to
                        clothe her face and form in that mysterious mantle of tendernessthe blossom,
                        the flower that brings the rich sweet fruit of love. From her high perch she
                        leaned over and gazed down into the clear water of the creek and smiled at
                        the gambols of the minnows that glanced here and there, now in shadowy
                        swarms and anon glancing singly, like sparks of dull fire, in the limpid
                        current. Some small cray-fishes, too, delighted her with their retrograde
                        and sidewise movements among the variegated pebbles at the bottom of the
                        water. A small sketch book and a case of pencils lay beside her. So busy was
                        she with her observations, that a fretful, peevish, but decidedly masculine
                        voice near by startled her as if from a doze. She had imagined herself so
                        utterly alone.
                    "Wo-erp 'ere, now can't ye! "Wo, I say!
                        Turn yer ole head roun' this way now, blast yer ole picter! No
                        foolin', now; wo-erp, I tell ye!
                    Rose was so frightened at first that she seemed about to rise in the air and
                        fly away;  but her quick glance in the
                        direction of the sound discovered the speaker, who, a few rods farther down
                        the creek, stood holding the halter rein of a forlorn looking horse in one
                        hand, and in the other a heavy woodman's axe.
                    "Wo-erp, now! I hate like the nation to slatherate ye; but I said
                        I'd do it if ye did'nt get well by this August the
                        fifteenth; an' shore 'nuff, here ye are with tlie fistleo
                        gittin' wus and wus every day o' yer life. So now ye may
                        expect ter git what I tole ye! Stan' still now, will ye, till I
                        knock the life out'n ye!"
                    By this time Rose had come to understand the features of the situation. The
                        horse was sadly diseased with that scourge of the equine race, scrofulous
                        shoulder or fistula, commonly called, among the country folk, flstleo, and
                        because the animal could not get well the man was on the point of killing it
                        by knocking it on the head with the axe.
                    Of all dumb things a horse was Rose's favorite. She had always,
                        since her very babyhood, loved horses.
                    "Wo-wo-wo-erp, here! Ha'n't ye got no sense at
                        all? Ding it, how d'ye 'spect me to hit yer blamed ole
                        head when ye keep it a waggin' 'round in that sort
                        o' style? Wo-erp!"
                    
                    The fellow had tied the halter rein around a sapling about two feet from the
                        ground, and was now preparing to deal the horse a blow with the axe between
                        its eyes. The animal seemed unaware of any danger, but kept its head going
                        from side to side, trying to fight certain bothersome gad-flies.
                    "O, sir, stop; don't, don't; please, sir,
                        don't!" cried the girl, her sweet voice breaking into
                        silvery echo fragments in every nook of the little hollow.
                    The man gazed all around, and, seeing no one, let fall the axe by his side.
                        The birds, taking advantage of the silence, lifted a twittering chorus
                        through the dense dark tops of the trees. The slimmest breath of air
                        languidly caressed the leaves of the rose vines. The bubbling of the brook
                        seemed to touch a mellower key, and the yellow butterflies settled all
                        together on a little sand bar, their bright wings shut straight and sharp
                        above their bodies. The man seemed intently listening.
                        "Tw'an't mammy's voice, nohow,"
                        he muttered; "but I'd like to know who 'twas,
                        though."
                    He stood a moment longer, as if in doubt, then again raising his axe he
                        continued:
                    "Must 'a' been a jay bird squeaked. Woerp
                        'ere now! I'm not goin' to fool wi' ye
                        all day, so hold yer head still!"
                    
                    That was a critical moment for the lean, miserable horse. It lowered its head
                        and held it quite still. The axe was steadily poised in the air. The
                        man's face wore a look of determinationgrim, stone-like. He was,
                        perhaps, twenty-five, tall and bony, with a countenance sallow almost to
                        greenness, sunken pale blue eyes, sun burnt hair, thin flaxy beard, and
                        irregular, half decayed teeth. Although his body and limbs were shrunken to
                        the last degree of attenuation, still the big cords of his neck and wrists
                        stood out taut, suggesting great strength. The blow would be a terrible one.
                        The horse would die almost without a struggle.
                    "O, O, O! Indeed, sir, you must not! Stop that, sir, instantly! You
                        shall not do it, sir! O, sir!"
                    And fluttering down from her perch, Rose flew to the spot where the tragedy
                        was pending, and cast herself pale and trembling between the horse and its
                        would be executioner.
                    The axe fell from the man's hands.
                    His eyes became exactly circular.
                    His under jaw dropped so that his mouth was open to its fullest gaping
                        capacity. His shoulders fell till their points almost met in front of his
                        sunken chest. He was a picture of overwhelming surprise.
                    
                    High up on the dead spire of a walnut tree a woodpecker began to beat a long,
                        rattling tattoo. The horse very lazily and innocently winked his brown eyes,
                        and putting forth his nose sniffed at the skirt of the girl's
                        dress.
                    "I'm gladO I'm ever so glad you'll not
                        kill him!" murmured the little lady when she saw the axe fall to
                        the ground.
                    The man stood a long moment, as if petrified or frozen into position, then
                        somewhat recovering, he re-seized the axe, and flourishing it high in the
                        air, cried in a voice that, cracked and shrill, rang petulantly through the
                        woods:
                    "I said I'd kill 'im if that garglin' oil
                        didn't cure 'im, 'an I'm derned ef I
                        don't, too!"
                    "O, sir, if you please! The poor horse is not to blame!"
                        exclaimed the excited girl.
                    "'Taint no use o' beggin'; he's
                        no 'count but to jist eat up corn, an' hay, an'
                        paster an' the likes; and his blasted fistleo gits wus an'
                        wus all the time. An't I spent more'n he's
                        wo'th a tryin' to cure 'm, an'
                        don't everybody laugh at me 'cause I've got sich
                        a denied ole slummux of a hoss? Jist blame my picter if I'll stand
                        it! So now you've hearn me toot my tin horn, an' ye may as
                        well stan' out'n the way!"
                    "But, sir, I'll take him off your hands, may I? Say, sir? O
                        please let me take him!"
                    
                    "An' what in thunder do you want of him? What
                        good's he goin' to do you? 'Cause, you see, he
                        can't work nor be rid on nor nothin'."
                    "O never mind, sir, just please give him to me and I'll
                        take him and care for him. Poor horsey! Poor horsey! See, lie loves me
                        already!"
                    The beast had thrust its nose against the maiden's hand.
                    "Well, I don't know 'bout this. I'd as
                        soon 'at you have 'im as not if I hadn't swore to
                        kill 'im, an' I musn't lie to 'im.
                        An' besides, I've had sich a pesky denied time
                        wi' 'im 'at it looks kinder mean 'at I
                        shouldn't have the satisfaction of bustin' his head for
                        it. I'm goin' to knock 'im, an' ye jist
                        mought as well stan' aside!"
                    Just then the peculiarities of the man's character were written on
                        his face. His nose denoted pugnacity, his lips sensuality, but not of a base
                        sort, his eyes ignorance and rough kindness, his chin firmness, his jaw
                        tenacity of purpose, and his complexion the ague. He had sworn to kill the
                        horse, and kill him he would. You could see that in the very wrinkles of his
                        neck. Ho evidently felt that it was a duty he owed to his consciencea duty
                        made doubly imperative by the horse's refusal to get well by the
                        exact time prescribed.
                    
                    While he stood with his axe raised, Rose was very diligently and nervously
                        tagging at the knot that fastened the halter rein to the tree, and ere he
                        was aware of her intent, she had untied it and was resolutely leading the
                        poor old animal away.
                    The man's eyes got longest the short way as he gazed at the
                        retreating figure.
                    "Well now, that's as cool as a cowcumber and twicet as
                        juicy! Gal, ye'r' a brick! ye'r' a knot!
                        Ye'r' a born pacer! Take 'im 'long for
                        all I keer! Take 'im 'long!"
                    He put down his axe, placed his hands against his sides and smiled, as he
                        spoke, a big wrinkling smile that covered the whole of his sallow, skinny
                        face and ran clear down to the neck band of his homespun shirt.
                    "Pluck, no eend to it!" he muttered; "wonder who
                        she is? Poortygeeroody!"
                    The wild birds sang a triumphant hymn, the breeze freshened till the whole
                        woods rustled, and louder still rose the bubbling of the stream among its
                        bowlders.
                    "Well, I'll jist be dorged! The poortiest gal in all
                        Injianny! An' she's tuck my ole hoss whether or no!
                        She's a knot! Sort o' a cool proceeding it 'pears
                        to me, but she's orful welcome to the hoss! Howdsoinever
                        it's mighty  much of a joke on me,
                        'r my name's not Zach Jones!"
                    He laughed long and loud. The birds laughed, too, and still the wind
                        freshened.
                    The girl and the horse had quickly disappeared behind the hazel and papaw
                        bushes. Zach Jones was alone with his axe and his reflections.
                    "Tender's where she sotright up yender on that ole clay
                        root. She must 'a' been a fishin', I
                        reckon."
                    Another admiring chuckle.
                    He went to the spot and clambered up among the roots. There lay
                        Rose's sketch book and pencil case. He took up the book and
                        curiously turned the leaves, his eyes running with something like childish
                        delight over the flowers and bits of landscape. He had never before seen a
                        drawing.
                    "Poorty as the gal 'erself, 'most," he
                        said, "an' seein' 'at she's
                        tuck my ole hoss, I spose I'll have to take these 'ere
                        jimcracks o' her'n. I'll take 'em
                        'long anyhow, jist to 'member her by!"
                    This argument seemed logical and conclusive, and with a quick glance over his
                        shoulder he crammed book and pencil case into the capacious depths of the
                        side pocket of his pants.
                    
                    "Now then it's about time for my chill, an'
                        I'd better go home. Hang the luck; s'pose I'll
                        allus have the ager!" This last sentence was uttered in a tone of
                        comical half despair, and accompanied by a facial contortion possible to no
                        one but a person thoroughly saturated with ague in its chronic form.
                    After he left the dell, Zach had a hot walk across a clover field before he
                        reached the dilapidated log house where he lived with his widowed mother. In
                        a short time his chill set in, and it was a fearful one. His teeth chattered
                        and his bony frame rattled like a bundle of dry sticks in a strong wind.
                        After it had shaken him thus for about an hour, his brother Sammy, a lad of
                        ten years, came in with a jug of buttermilk brought from a
                        neighbor's.
                    "Mammy, 'ere's yer buttermilk," said he,
                        setting the jug on the floor. "Shakin' like
                        fortya'n't ye, Zach?" he added, glancing with a
                        sad, lugubrious smile at his brother; then, changing his tone and also his
                        countenance, he continued, with a broader grin: "Bet ye a dollar ye
                        can't guess what I seed over to 'Squire
                        Martin's!"
                    "No, nor I don't care a cuss; so put off an'
                        don't come yawpin' round me!" replied Zaeh.
                    "Yes ye do, too; an' I know ye do, for 'twas  yer ole fistleo hoss. That 'ere fine
                        gal 'at stays over there is havin' a man wash 'im
                        an' doctor 'im." Sammy winked and hitched up his
                        pants as he spoke.
                    "Do say, Sammy, is that so, now?" cried the widow, holding
                        up her hands. "How on 'arth come she by the hoss? Zach, I
                        thought you'd killed that creater'!"
                    "Mammy, ef you an' Sammy 'll jist let me
                        'joy this 'ere ager in peace I'll be orful
                        'bleeged to ye," said Zach, making his chair creak and
                        quiver with the ecstasy of his convulsion.
                    But Sammy's tongue would go. He thought he had a "good
                        'un" on Zach, and nothing short of lightning could have
                        killed him quick enough to prevent his telling it.
                    "The gal says as how Zach gin 'er the ole hoss for to
                        'member 'im by!" he blurted out, shying briskly
                        from Zach's foot, which otherwise would have landed him in the door
                        yard.
                    "Lookee here now, Zach, you jist try the likes o' that
                        ag'in an' I'll give ye sich a
                        broom-stickin' as ye a'n't had lately. Ye mought
                        'a' injured the child's insides!" and as
                        she spoke the widow flourished the broom.
                    So Zach dropped his head upon his chest and employed himself exclusively with
                        his chill. When his mother was not looking at him, however,  he would occasionally slip the sketch book
                        partly out of his pocket and peep between its leaves. When his fever came on
                        ho got "flighty" and horrified the widow with talk about
                        an angel on a clay root and a sweet little "hoss thief"
                        from whom he had stolen the "picters!"
                    I cannot exactly say how Zach got to going over to 'Squire
                        Martin's so often after this. But his first visit was a compulsory
                        one. His mother happening to discover his possession of the sketch book and
                        pencil case, made him return them with his own hand to Rose. He at once
                        became deeply interested in the progress of his former patient's
                        convalescence; for, strange to say, the poor horse began almost immediately
                        to get well, and in two months was sound, glossy and fat. Nor was he an
                        ill-looking animal. On the contrary, when Rose sat on his back and stroked
                        his mane, he arched his neck and pawed the ground like a thoroughbred.
                    'Squire Martin was a good man, and seeing how Zach seemed to enjoy
                        Rose's company, he one day took the girl aside and said to her:
                    "You must be somewhat of a doctor, my dear, seeing how
                        you've touched up the old hoss, and I propose for you to try your
                        hand  on another subject. There's
                        poor Zach Jones, who's had the chills for six or eight years as
                        constant as sunrise and sunset, and no medicine can't do him any
                        good. Now I'll be bound if you'll try you can cure him
                        sound and well. All you need to do in the world is to pet him up
                        some'at as you have the ole hoss. Jist take a little interest in
                        the feller an' he'll come out all right. All he wants is
                        to forget he ever had the ager and take some light exercise and have some
                        fun. Fun is the only medicine to cure the chills with. Quinine is no
                        'count but to make a racket in a feller's head, and
                        calomel 'll kill 'im, sure. Now I propose to let Zach have
                        a hoss and saddle and you must go out a riding with 'im and try to
                        divert his mind from his sorrows and aches and painsnow that's a
                        good girl, Rosie."
                    Rose, whose healthful, impulsive, generous nature would not allow her to
                        refuse so well intended and withal so small a request, readily agreed to do
                        all she could in the matter, and very soon thereafter she and Zach were the
                        very best of friends, taking long rides together through woodlands and up
                        and down the pleasant lanes of 'Squire Martin's broad
                        estates. The young girl soon found the companionship of Zach, novel and most
                        awkward as it was at  first, agreeable and
                        almost charming in its freshness and sincerity. As for Zach himself, he was
                        the girl's slave from the start. He could not do too much for her
                        in his earnest, respectful way. Women are always tyrants, and their tyranny
                        seems to be inversely as their size and directly as the size of the man upon
                        whom it is exerted. Rose was a very little chit of a maiden, and Zach was a
                        great big bony frame of a fellow. The result, of course, was despotism. But,
                        although Zach was a democrat, he seemed to like the oppression, and ran
                        after big-winged butterflies, opened gates, pulled down and put up
                        innumerable fences, climbed trees after empty bird nests, gathered flowers
                        and fernsdid everything, in fact, required of him by his little queen. He
                        became a daily visitor at the 'Squire's, and seemed to
                        have entirely forgotten everything else or utterly submerged it in his
                        unselfish devotion to the girl. The good 'Squire saw this with
                        unbounded delight.
                    So August quietly drifted by, and September hung its yellow banner on the
                        corn and said farewell with a sigh that had in it a smack of winter.
                    Rose's parents were wealthy and lived in Indianapolis, and now came
                        the time for the  girl's return to
                        her city home. Meanwhile a remarkable change had taken place in the health
                        and spirits of Zach Jones. The ague had departed, the sallowness was gone
                        from his skin, somewhat of flesh had gathered on his cheeks, and in his eyes
                        shone a cheerful light. He was straight and almost plump, and his hair and
                        beard had assumed a gloss and liveliness they had never before known. He had
                        thrown away qninine and calomel, and his sleep at night was soft and sweet,
                        broken only by fair, happy dreams, that lingered long after he was awake. At
                        home his mother had far less trouble with him, and Sammy never got a kick
                        even if he did occasionally mention old fistleo in an equivocal way. The
                        amount of provender it required to satisfy Zach's appetite now was
                        a constant source of amazement to the widow.
                    The evening preceding Rose's departure was a fine one. The woods
                        were gold, the sky was turquoise. Instead of riding, as usual, the young
                        people took a stroll in the 'Squire's immense orchard. The
                        apples were ripe and ready to be gathered into the cellars; their mellow
                        fragrance flavored the autumn air so delicately that Zach said it smelt
                        sweeter than an oven full of sugar cakes.
                    
                    When the young folk returned from their walk the 'Squire was
                        standing on the door step of his house. His quick eyes caught a glimpse of
                        something unsatisfactory in the faces of the approaching coupleZach,
                        particularly, despite his evident effort to choke down something, discovered
                        unmistakable signs of suffering. Rose was simply sober and thoughtful.
                    "What now, Zach?" asked the 'Squire,
                        "sick, eh?" "D'know; guess I'm
                        in for a shake; wish to the Lord it 'd shake my back bone clean
                        out'n me!" was the reply, in a queer gurgling voice. A
                        bunch of fall roses fell from his vest button-hole, but he did not pick it
                        up. A hot flush, in the midst of a ghastly pallor, burned on the cheeks of
                        the speaker. Rose tapped the ground with the toe of her kid boot, but did
                        not speak.
                    The man and the girl stood there close together awhile, and the
                        'Squire did not catch what they said as they shook hands and
                        parted. When Zach had gone home the 'Squire told Rose that he
                        wished she would stay a little longer, till the ague season was over, just
                        on Zach's account. Rose quietly replied, "I have already
                        stayed too long;" but her voice had an infinity of pity and sorrow
                        in it that the 'Squire did not detect.
                    
                    Next morning Rose went home to the city and soon after made a brilliant debut in society, for she was really a charming little
                        thing. That winter was a festive onea season of great social activityand
                        some of its most direct and prominent results were a few notable marriages
                        in the spring, among which was that of Rose to a banker of P, Kentucky, the
                        happy nuion being consummated in May.
                    On the very day of her wedding Rose received from her uncle the following
                        note: 
                            
                                
                                    "DEAR NIECE:
                                    "Come to see us, even if you won't stay but
                                        one day. Come right off, if you're a Christian
                                        girl. Zach Jones is dying of consumption and is begging to
                                        see you night and day. He says he's got something
                                        on his mind he wants to say to you, and when he says it he
                                        can die happy. The poor fellow is monstrous bad off, and I
                                        think you ought to be sure and come. We're all
                                        well. Your loving uncle,
                                    
                                        "JARED MARTIN."
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    Something in this homely letter so deeply affected Rose that she prevailed on
                        her husband, a few days after their marriage, to take her to
                        'Squire Martin's.
                    It was nearly sundown when the young  wife,
                        accompanied by the 'Squire, entered the room of the dying man. He
                        lay on a low bed by an open window, through which, with hollow hungry eyes,
                        he was gazing into the blue distance that is called the sky of May. Birds
                        were singing in the trees all around the house, and a cool breath of
                        violet-scented air rippled through the window. The widow Jones, worn out
                        with watching by the sick bed, sat sleeping in her rude arm-chair; Sammy had
                        gone after the cowa gift from the 'Squire.
                    The visitors entered softly, but Zach heard them and feebly turned his head.
                        He put out a bloodless hand and clasped the warm fingers of Rose, pulling
                        her into a seat by his couch. A wan smile flitted across his face as he
                        fixed his eyes, burning like sparks in the gray ash of a spent fire, on
                        her's, dewy with rising tears.
                    "The same little Rose you use to wus," he said, in a low
                        faltering voice, that had in it an unconquerable allegiance to the one dream
                        of his manhood. His unnaturally bright eyes ran swiftly over her face and
                        form, then closed, as if to fasten the vision within, that it might follow
                        him to eternity.
                    "The same little Rose you use to wus," he repeated,
                        "only now you're picked off the vine  an' nobody can't touch ye but the owner.
                        I'm a poor, no 'count dyin' man, Rose, but
                        you'll never." His voice choked a little and he did not
                        finish the sentence. Perhaps he thought it were better not finished.
                    A few moments of utter silence followed, during which, faintly, far out in
                        the field behind the house, was heard the childish voice of Sammy,
                        singing' an old hymn, two lines of which were most distinctly heard
                        by those in the house.
                    "Ah, yes 
                            
                                "This world's a wilderness of woe,
                                This world it ain't my home,"
                            
                         chimed in the trembling voice of the sick man. Then, by an effort that
                        evidently taxed his fading powers to the last degree, he fixed his eyes
                        firmly on those of the young woman. Here was a martyr of the divine sort,
                        true and unchangeable in the flame of the torture.
                    "Rose, little Rose," he said, glancing uneasily at the
                        'Squire, "I've got something private like to say
                        to you."
                    The young woman trembled. Memory was at work.
                    "'Squire, go out a minute, will ye?" continued
                        Zach.
                    The sick man's request was promptly obeyed,  and Rose sat, drooping, alone beside the bed, while the widow
                        snored away.
                    Zach now more nervously clasped the hand of the young woman. A spot of faint
                        sunshine glimmered on the pillow close by the man's head. The
                        out-door sounds of the wind in the young grass, and the rustle of the new
                        soft leaves of the trees, crept into the room gently, as if not to drown the
                        low voice of the dying man.
                    "It's been on my mind ever since we parted, Rose, and I ort
                        'a' said it then, but I choked an'
                        couldn't; but I kin say it now and I will." He paused a
                        moment and Rose looked pitifully at him. His chin was thrust out firmly and
                        his lips had a determined set. He looked just as he did when about to knock
                        the poor old horse on the head over in the dell that day. How vividly the
                        tragic situation was recalled in Rose's mind!
                    "Yes, I will say it now, so I will," he resumed.
                        "Since things turned out jist as they have, Rose, I do wish
                        I'd 'a' paid no 'tention to ye
                        an' jist gone on and knocked that derned ole fistleoed hoss so dead
                        'at he'd 'a' never kickedI doI do,
                        'i hokey! I don't want to make ye feel bad, but
                        I'm goin' away now, an' it 'pears to me
                        like as if I'd go easy if I kuow'd  you'd." He turned away his face and drew
                        just one little fluttering breath. "When, after only a few
                        minutes' absence, the 'Squire came in, the widow still
                        slept, the sweet air still rippled through the room, but Rose held a dead
                        hand; Zach was at rest! The 'Squire placed his hand on the bright
                        hair of Rose and gazed mournfully down into the pinched, pallid face of the
                        dead. How awfully calm a dead face is!
                    The widow stirred in her chair, groaned, and awoke. For a moment she bent her
                        eyes wonderingly, inquiringly on the young woman; then, rising, she clasped
                        her in her great bony arms.
                    "You are the Rose, the little Rose he's been goin'
                        on so about. O, honey, I'm orful glad you've come. You ort
                        jist to 'a' heerd him talk about ye when he got flighty
                        likebut OOmy! O Lor'! ZachZachy, dear! O, Miss, O, he's
                        deadhe's dead!"
                    "Dead, yes, dead!" echoed the 'Squire, his words
                        dropping with the weight of lead.
                    Across the fields of young green wheat ran waves of the spring wind,
                        murmuring and sighing, while the dust of blossoms wheeled, and rose and fell
                        in the last soft rays of the going sun. A big yellow butterfly flitted
                        through the room.
                    
                    Presently Sammy entered. He came in like a gust of wind, making things rattle
                        with his impetuous motion.
                    "O, mammy! O, Zach ! I's got s'thin' to
                        tell ye, an' I'll bet a biscuit you can't guess
                        what't is!" he cried breathlessly.
                    "O, Sammy, honey, O, dear!" groaned the widow.
                    "S-s-h!" said the 'Squire solemnly.
                    "Well, I jist wanted 'm to guess," replied Sammy,
                        "for it's awful doggone cur'u's
                        'at"
                    "S-s-h!"
                    "The fistleo is broke out on Zach's ole hoss ten times as
                        wuss as ever!"
                    "S-s-s-s-h!"
                    "It's so, for I seed it. It's layin' down
                        over in the hollow by 'tater creek, where the ole clay root is,
                        an' its jist about to d."
                    "S-s-h!"
                    The child caught a glimpse of the face and was struck mute. And darkness
                        stole athwart the earth, but the morrow's sun drove it away. Never,
                        however, did any sun or any season chase from the heart of little Rose the
                        shadow that was the memory of the man who died in that cabin.
                
                
                
                    STEALING A CONDUCTOR.
                    HE shambled into the bar-room of the hotel at Thorntown, a
                        Boone County village, and, with a bow and a hearty "how-de do to
                        you all," took the only vacant chair. Ho scratched a match and
                        lighted his pipe. "Now we'll be bored with some sort of a
                        long-winded story," whispered some to others of the loungers
                        present. "Never knowed him to fail," said a lank fellow,
                        almost loud enough for the subject to hear. "He's our
                        travelled man," added a youth, who winked as if he were extremely
                        intelligent and didn't mind letting folks know it.
                    The man himself whiffed away carelessly at his pipe, now and then raising one
                        eye higher than the other, to take a sort of side survey of the persons
                        present. That eye was not long in settling upon me, and after a short,
                        searching look, gleamed in a well pleased way. He was a stout formed man of
                        about fifty years, dressed rather seedily, and wearing a plug hat  of enormous height, the crown of which was
                        battered into the last degree of grotesqueness. He got right up, and,
                        dragging his chair behind him, came over and settled close down in front of
                        me.
                    "Stranger here, a'n't you?"
                    "Yes, sir."
                    "Your name's Fuller, a'n't it?"
                    "No, sir."
                    "Well, mebbe I'm mistaken, but you're just the
                        picter o' Fuller. Never was a conductor on a railroad, was
                        you?"
                    "Never, sir."
                    "Never was down in the swamps o' South-Eastern Georgy, was
                        you?"
                    "Never, sir."
                    "Well, that beats four aces! I could 'a' bet on
                        your bein' Fuller." He paused a moment, and then added in
                        a very insinuating tone: "If you are Fuller you
                        needn't bo afeard to say so, for I don't hold any grudge
                        'gin you about that little matter. Now, sure enough,
                        a'n't your name Fuller, in fact?"
                    I glared at the man a moment, hesitating about whether or not I should plant
                        my fist in his eye. But something of almost child-like simplicity and
                        sincerity beaming from his face restrained me. Surely the fellow did not
                        wish to be as impudent as his words would imply.
                    
                    "Well, stranger, I see I've got to explain, but the
                        story's not overly long," said he, hitching up a little
                        closer to me and settling himself comfortably.
                    I was about to get up and walk out of the room, when some one of the
                        by-sitters filliped a little roll of paper to me. Unrolling it I read
                    "Let him go on, he'll give you a lively one. He's
                        a brick."
                    So, concluding that possibly I might be entertained, I lounged back in my
                        seat.
                    "You see," said he, "I thought you was Fuller,
                        an' Fuller was the only conductor I ever stole."
                    "Stole a conductor," whispered somebody,
                        "that's a new one!"
                    "I've stole a good many things in my time, but I'm
                        here to bet that no other living Hoosier ever stole a railroad conductor,
                        an' Fuller was the only one I ever stole. I stole him slicker
                        'n a eel. I had him 'fore he knowed it, and you jist
                        better bet he was one clean beat conductor fore I was done wi'
                        'im.
                    "I kin tell you the whole affair in a few minutes, and I
                        da' say you'll laugh a good deal 'fore
                        I'm through. You see I went down to Floridy for my health, and when
                        I had about  recivered I got onto a bum in
                        Jacksonville and spent all my money and everything else but my very oldest
                        suit o' clothes and my pistol, a Colt's repeater, ten inch
                        barrel. None o' you can't tell how a feller feels in a
                        predicament o' that sort. Somethin' got into my throat
                        'bout as big as a egg, and I felt kinder moist about the eyes when
                        I had to stare the fact in the face that I was nigh onto, or possibly quite
                        a thousand miles from home without ary a dime in my pocket. But if
                        there's one thing I do have more 'n another in my nater
                        it's common sense grit. Well, what you s'pose I done?
                        W'y I jest lit out for home afoot. Well, sir, the derndest swamps
                        is them Floridy and Georgy swamps. It's ra'lly all one
                        swampthe Okeefenokee. I follered the railroad that goes up to Savanny, and
                        it led me deeper and deeper into the outlying fringes of that terrible old
                        bog. When I had travelled a considerable distance into Georgy, and had
                        pretty well wore my feet off up to my ankle j'ints, and was about
                        as close onto starvation as a 'tater failure in Ireland, and when
                        my under lip had got to hanging down like the skirt o' a wore out
                        saddle, and when every step seemed like it'd bo my last, I jest got
                        clean despairing like and concluded to pray a little. So I got down  upon my knee j'ints and put up a
                        most extraornary supplication. I felt every word o' it, too, in all
                        the marrer of my bones. The place where I was a prayin' was a sort
                        o' hummock spot in a mighty bad part o' the swamp. Some
                        awful tall pines towered stupenjisly above me. Well, jest as I was finished,
                        and was a saying a men, the lordy mercy what a yowl something did give right
                        over me in a tree! I think I jumped as high as your head, stranger, and come
                        down flat-footed onto a railroad cross tie. Whillikins, how I was seared! It
                        was one o' them whooping owls they have down there. It was while I
                        was a running from that 'ere owl a thinkin' it was a
                        panther, that the thought struck me somewhere in the back o' the
                        head that I might steal a ride to Savanny on the first train 'at
                        might pass. 'I'll try it!' says I, and so I sot
                        right down there in the swamp and calmly waited for a train. In about a hour
                        here come one, like the de'il a braking hemp, jist more'n
                        a roaring through the swamp. I forgot to tell you 'at it was after
                        dark, but the moon was dimly a shining through the fog that covers
                        everything there o' nights. Well, here come the train, and as she
                        passed I made a lunge at the hind platform of the last car and some how or
                        another got onto it and away I  went. It was
                        mighty much softer 'n walking, I tell you, and I was pleased as a
                        monkey with a red cap on. My, how fast that train did go! I could hardly
                        hold onto where I wus. You may jist bet I clung on though, and finally I got
                        myself setting down on the steps and then I was all hunkey. But I
                        didn't have much time to enjoy myself there, though, for all of a
                        sudden the light of a lantern shined on me and then somebody touched me and
                        said
                    "Ticket!"
                    "Mebbe you don't know how onery a feller 'll feel
                        sometimes when he hears that 'ere word ticket'specially
                        when he a'n't got no ticket nor no money to pay his fare,
                        and too, when he does want to ride a little of the derndest! That was my
                        fix! I'd 'a' give a thousand dollars for a half
                        dollar!
                    "Ticket!"
                    "He shook me a little this time and held his lantern down low,
                        so's to see into my face. I know I must 'a'
                        looked like the de'il.
                    "Ticket here, quick!"
                    "I've done paid," said I.
                    "Show your check then."
                    "Lost it," says I.
                    "Money, then, quick!"
                    "Got none," says I.
                    
                    "What thedid you git onto my train for without ticket or money? How
                        do you expect to travel without paying, youlousy vagabond! You
                        can't steal from me; out with yourwallet and gi' me the
                        money! Hurry up!"
                    "A'n't got no wallet nor no money," says
                        I.
                    "Well, I'll dump you off right here, then," said
                        he, reaching for the bell-rope to stop the train.
                    "For the Lord's sake let me ride to Savanny!" says
                        I.
                    "A dam Northerner, I know from your voice!" said he,
                        pulling the rope. The train began to slack and soon stopped.
                    "Get off!" said the conductor.
                    "Please I'me ride!" says I.
                    "Off with yon!"
                    "Jist a few miles here on the steps!"
                    "Off, quick!"
                    "Please"
                    "Here you go!" and as he said the words he tried to kick me
                        off.
                    "In a second I was like a Bengal tiger. I jumped up and gathered him
                        and we went at it. I'm as good as ever fluttered, and pretty soon I
                        give him one flat on the nose, and we both went off 'n the platform
                        together. As I  started off I happened to
                        think of it, so I grabbed up and pulled the bell-rope to signal the engineer
                        to drive on. "Hoot-toot!" says the whistle, and away
                        lick-to-split went the train, and slashy-to-splashy, rattle-o-bangle,
                        kewoppyty-whop, bump, thud! down me and that 'ere conductor come
                        onto a pile o' wore out cross ties in the side ditch, and there we
                        laid a flghtin'!
                    "But you jest bet it didn't take me long to settle him. He soon began to sing out ''nuff!
                        'nuff! take 'm off!' and so I took him by the
                        hair and dragged him off 'n the cross ties, shot him one or two
                        more under the ear with my fist, and then dropped him. He crawled up and
                        stood looking at me as if I was the awfulest thing in the world. I
                        s'pect I did look scary, for I was terrible mad. His face was
                        bruised up mightily, but ho wasn't 'a bleeding much. He
                        was mostly swelled.
                    "Where's my train?" says he, in a sort o'
                        blank, hollow way.
                    "Don't ye hear it?" I answered him,
                        "it's gone on to Savanny!"
                    "Gone! who told 'm to go on? what 'd they go leave
                        me for?"
                    "I pulled the bell rope," says I.
                    "You?"
                    
                    "Yes, me!"
                    "What in the world did you do that for,
                        man?"
                    "'Cause you wouldn't let me ride to
                        Savanny!"
                    "What 'll I do! what 'll I do!" he cried,
                        beginning to waltz 'round like one possessed.
                    "I laughedI couldn't help itand at the same time I pulled
                        out my old pistol.
                    "Yah-hoo-a!" yelled another owl.
                    "For the sake o'humanity don't kill me!"
                        said the conductor.
                    "I'm jest a going to shoot you a little bit for the fun
                        o' the thing," says I.
                    "Mercy, man!" he prayed.
                    "Ticket!" says I.
                    "He groaned the awfulest kind, and, by the moonlight, I saw
                        'at the big tears was running down his face. I felt sorry for him,
                        but I kinder thought 'at after what he'd done
                        he'd better pray a little, so I mentioned it to him."
                    "I guess it mought be best if you'd pray a
                        little," says I, cocking the pistol. My voice had a decided
                        sopulchreal sound. The pistol clicked very sharp.
                    "O, kind sir," says he, "O, dear sir, I never did
                        pray, I don't know how to pray!"
                    "Ticket or check!" says I, and he knowed I was talking kind
                        o' sarcasm. "Pray quick!"
                    
                    "He got down and prayed like a Methodist preacher at his very best
                        licks. He must 'a' prayed afore.
                    "About the time his prayer was ended I heard a train coming in the
                        distance. He jumped up and listened.
                    "Glory! Heaven be praised!" says he, capering around like a
                        mad monkey, "they've missed me and are backing down to
                        hunt me! where's my lantern? Have you a match? Gi'me your
                        handkerchief!"
                    "Not so fast," says I; "you jest be moderate now,
                        will you? I've no notion o' you getting on that train any
                        more. You jest walk along wi' me, will you?"
                    "Where?" says he.
                    "Into the swamp," says I; "step off lively, too,
                        d'you hear me?"
                    "O mercy, mercy, man!" says he.
                    "Ticket!" says I, and then he walked along wi' me
                        into the swamp some two or three hundred yards from the railroad.
                    "I took him into a very thickety place, and made him back up agin a
                        tree and put back his arms around it. Then I took one o' his
                        suspenders and tied him hard and fast. Then I gagged him with my
                        handkerchief. So far, so good.
                    
                    "Here come the train slowly backing down, the brakesman a swinging
                        lanterns, and the passengers all swarming onto the platforms. Poorty soon
                        they stopped right opposite us. The conductor began to struggle. I poked the
                        pistol in his face and jammed the gag furder into his mouth. He saw I meant
                        work and got quiet.
                    "The passengers was swarming off 'n the train and I saw
                        'at I must git about poorty fast if I was to do anything. I soon
                        hit on a plan. I jist stepped back a piece out o' sight o'
                        the conductor and turned my coat, which was one o' these two-sided
                        affairs, one side white, t'other brown. I turned the white side
                        out. Then I flung away my greasy skull cap and took a soft hat out
                        'n my pocket and put it on. Then I watched my chance and mixed in
                        with the passengers who was a hunting for the conductor.
                    "Strange what's become o' him," says I to
                        a fat man, who was puffing along.
                    "Dim strange, dim strange," says the big fellow, in a keen,
                        wheezing voice.
                    "Well, you never saw jist sich hunting as was done for that
                        conductor. Everybody slopped around in the swamp till their clothes was as
                        wet and muddy as mine. I was monstrous  active
                        in the search. I hunted everywhere 'cepting where the conductor
                        was. Tiiially he got the gag spit out and lordy how he did squeal for help.
                        Everybody rushed to him and soon had him free.
                    "It tickled me awful to hear that conductor explaining the matter.
                        He told it something like this:
                    "Devil of a great big ruffian on hind platform. Asked him for
                        ticket. Refused. Tried to put him off. Grabbed me. Smashed my nose. Flung me
                        off. Pulled the bell-rope, then lit out on me. Mauledout o' me. Had
                        a pistol two feet long. Made me pray. Heard train a coming. Took me to
                        swamp. Tied me and sloped. Lord but I'm glad to see you
                        all!"
                    "We all went aboard o' the train and I rode to Savanny
                        onmolested. The conductor didn't mistrust me. He asked me for my
                        check and I told him 'at I'd lost it a thrashing round in
                        the bushes a hunting him. That was all right.
                    "When we got to Savanny I couldn't help letting the
                        conductor know me, so as I passed down the steps of the car I whispered
                        savagely in his ear:
                    "Ticket! dod blast you!"
                    "He tried to grab me as I shambled off into  the crowd, but I knowed the ropes. I heard him a
                        shoutin'
                    "There he goes! Ketch him, dern him, ketch him!" But they
                        didn't.
                    "That conductor's name was Fuller, and I swear, stranger,
                        'at you look jest like him! Gi' me a match, will you, my
                        pipe's out. Thanky. Hope I ha'n't bored you. Good
                        bye all."
                    He shambled out and I never saw him again.
                
                
                
                    HOIDEN.
                    THE house was known as Rackenshack throughout the
                        neighborhood for miles around. It was a frame structure, originally of sorry
                        workmanship, at least thirty years old, and upon which not a cent's
                        worth of repairing had been done since first erected, wherefore the name was
                        peculiarly appropriate. It was not only old, rickety, paintless, half rotten
                        and sadly sunken at one end, but the fencing around the place was broken,
                        grown over with weeds, and slanted in as many ways as there were panels. The
                        lawn or yard in front of the house had some old cherry trees, gnarled and
                        decaying, growing in what had once been straight rows, but storms and more
                        insidious vicissitudes had twisted and curled them about till they looked as
                        though they had been thrown end foremost at the ground hap-hazard. Under and
                        all round these trees young sprouts, from the scattered cherry seeds of many
                        years of fruiting, had grown so thick that one could with difficulty get
                        through them. A narrow,  well-beaten path led
                        from the gate, which lazily lolled on one hinge, up to the decayed and
                        sunken porch, in front of which was the well, with its lop-eared windlass
                        and dilapidated curb and shed.
                    A country thoroughfare, one of the old State roads leading westward to a
                        ferry on the Wabash river near the village of Attica and eastward to either
                        Crawfordsville, Indianapolis or Lafayette. This road was in the direct line
                        of emigration, and in the proper seasons long lines of covered wagons rolled
                        past, the drivers, a jolly set, hallooing to each other and bandying sharp
                        wit and rude sarcasm at the expense of Rackenshack. Poor old house, it
                        leered at the passers, with its windows askew, and clattered its loose
                        boards and battered shutters in utter and complacent defiance of all their
                        jeers!
                    Rackenshack belonged to Luke Plunkett and Betsy, his sister; the latter an
                        old maid beyond all cavil, the former a bachelor of about thirty. The lands
                        of the estate were pretty broad, comprising some two thousand acres of rich
                        prairie and "river bottom" land, which had been kept in a
                        much better state of improvement than the house had. In fact, Luke was
                        considered a careful, industrious, frugal farmer. He had large, well
                        regulated barns  and stock sheds and
                        stablesplenty of fine horses, cattle, hogs, sheep and mules, all well fed
                        and cared for, and it was generally understood that he had a pretty round
                        deposit in a bank.
                    Perhaps 'Squire Rube Fink, sometimes called "the Rev. Major
                        Fink" and sometimes "Talking Rube," gives the
                        best description of Luke's condition, habits and surroundings, that
                        I can offer. It is truthful and singularly graphic. Ho says:
                    "Luke Plunkett's no fool if he does live at Rack-a-me-shack
                        and 'spect the ole rotten tabernacle to fall down on him every time
                        a rooster crows close by. That feller's long-headed, he is. To be
                        sure, sartinly, his barn's a dern sight better 'n his
                        house, but his head's level, for, d'ye see,
                        that's the way to make money. A house don't never make no
                        money for a fellerit's nothin' but dead capital to put
                        money into a fine dwellin'. Luke's pilin' his
                        money in the bank. He's been doin' a sharp thing in wheat
                        and live stock at Cincinnati, and I guess he knows what he's about.
                        He don't keer about what sort o' house he lives in. But I
                        tell you that red haired sister o' his'n is lightning.
                        She's what bosses the job all round that ole shanty; but she
                        can't red-hair it over Luke  in the
                        farm matters. He has his own way. He's so quiet and peculiar; a
                        still, say nothin', bull-dog sort o' man he is."
                    Indeed, Luke was one of that quiet sort of men who, without ever once loudly
                        asserting a right or disputing any word you say, invariably go ahead on
                        their own judgment and carry their point in everything. Nevertheless, he was
                        a man of fine, generous nature at bottom, a good brother and a worthy
                        friend.
                    But it was with Luke just as it is, more or less, with us all. He absorbed
                        into his life the spirit of his surroundings. He grew somewhat to resemble
                        Rackenshack in outward appearance. He became slovenly in his dress and let
                        his hair and beard grow wild. His naturally handsome face gradually took on
                        a sort of good humored ugliness, and his heavy shoulders slanted over like
                        the uneven gables of his house. He became an inveterate chewer and smoker of
                        tobacco. What time a quid of the weed was not in his mouth, the short thick
                        stem of a dark, nicotine-coated briar-root pipe took its place there.
                    Luke was an early riser; therefore it happens that our story properly begins
                        on a fine June morning, just before sunrise. The birds seemed to suspect
                        that a story was to date  from that hour, for
                        they were up earlier than usual and made a great rustle of wings and a sweet
                        Babel of voices in the old cherry trees. There were the oriole, the cat
                        bird, the yellow throat, the brown thrush and the red bird, all putting
                        forth at once their charmingest efforts. The old cherry trees, knee deep in
                        the foliage of their under growing seedlings, gleamed dusky green in the
                        early light, as Luke, bareheaded, barefooted and in his "shirt
                        sleeves," as the phrase goes, issued from the front door of
                        Rackenshack, and walked down the path across the yard to the gate at the
                        road. Of late he had been in the habit of "taking a smoke"
                        the first thing after getting up in the morning, and somehow the gate,
                        though off one hinge and having doubtful tenure of the other, was his
                        favorite thing to lean upon while watching the whiffs of blue smoke slowly
                        float away.
                    On this particular morning he seemed a little agitated; and, indeed, he was
                        vexed more deeply than he had ever before been. Just the preceding evening
                        he had learned that a corps of civil engineers were rapidly approaching his
                        premises with a line of survey, and that the purpose was to locate and build
                        a railway right through the middle of his farm.  To Luke the very idea was outrageous. He felt that he could never stand
                        such an imposition. His land was his own, and when he wanted it dug up and
                        leveled down and a track laid across it he would do it himself. He did not
                        want his farm cut in two, his fields disarranged and his fences moved, nor
                        did he wish to see his live stock killed by locomotives. The truth is he was
                        bitterly opposed to railroads, any how. They were innovations. They were
                        enemies to liberty. They brought fashion, and spendthrift ways, and
                        speculation, and all that along with them. Other folks might have railroads
                        if they wanted them, but they must not bother him with them. He could take
                        care of his affairs without any railroads. Besides, if he wanted one he
                        could build it. He hung heavily upon the gate, thinking the matter over, and
                        would not have bestowed a second glance at the carriage that came trundling
                        past if he had not caught the starry flash of a pair of blue eyes and a
                        rosy, roguish girl's face within. The beauty of that countenance
                        struck the great rough fellow like a blow. Ho stared in a dazed, bewildered
                        way. He took his pipe from his mouth and involuntarily tried to hide his
                        great big bare feet behind the gate post. He felt a queer, dreamy thrill
                        steal all over  him. It was his first definite
                        impression of feminine beauty. Instantly that round, happy, mischievous
                        face, with its dimples and indescribable shining lines of half latent mirth,
                        set itself in his heart forever.
                    The carriage trundled on in the direction of the ferry. Luke followed it with
                        his eyes till it disappeared round a turn in the road; then he put the pipe
                        to his mouth again and began puffing vigorously, wagging his head in a way
                        that indicated great confusion of mind. There are times when a glimpse of a
                        face, the sudden half-mastering of a new, grand idea, a view of a rare
                        landscape or even a cadence in some new tune, will start afresh the long
                        dried up wells of a heart. Something like this had happened to Luke.
                    "Sich a gal! sich a gal!" he murmured from the corner of
                        his mouth opposite his pipe stem. "I don't guess
                        I'm a dreamin' now, though I feel a right smart like it. I
                            hev dreamed of that 'ere face though, many of
                        times. I've seed it in my sleep a thousand times, but I never
                        s'posed 'at I'd see it shore enough when
                        I'd be awake! Sweetest dreams I ever hadsweetest face God ever
                        made! I wonder who she is?" As if to supplement Luke's
                        soliloquy at this point, a cardinal red bird flung out  from the dusky depths of the oldest cherry tree an ecstatic
                        carol, and a swallow, swooping down from the clear purple heights, almost
                        touched the man's cheek with its shining wings, and the sun lifted
                        its flaming face in the east and flooded the fields with gold.
                    Luke turned slowly toward the old house. The breeze that came up with the sun
                        poured through the orchard with a broad, joyous surge, while something like
                        blowing of strange winds and streaming of soft sunlight made strangely happy
                        the inner world of the smitten Hoosier. His big strong heart fluttered
                        mysteriously. He actually took his pipe from his lips and broke into a
                        snatch of merry song, that startled Betsy, his sister, from her morning nap.
                    For the time the hated railroad survey was forgotten. The landscape at
                        Rackenshack, as if by a turn of the great prisms of nature, suddenly took on
                        rainbow hues. The fields flashed with jewels, and the woods, a wall of dusky
                        emerald, were wrapped in a roseate mist, stirred into dreamy motion by the
                        breeze. A light, grateful fragrance seemed to pervade all space, as if flung
                        from the sun to soften and enhance the charm of his gift of light and heat.
                        Such a hold did all this take upon Luke, and 
                        so utterly abstracted was he, that when breakfast was ready Betsy was
                        obliged to remind him of the tact that he had neglected to wash his face and
                        hands, and comb his hair and beardthings absolutely prerequisite to eating
                        at her table.
                    "Forgot it, sure's the world," said Luke;
                        "don't know what ever possessed me."
                    "Maybe you've forgot to turn the cows into the milk stalls,
                        too?" said Betsy.
                    "If I ha'n't I'm a gourd!" and
                        Luke scratched his head distractedly.
                    "What 'd I tell you, Luke Plunkett? It's come at
                        last, O lordy! You're as crazy as a June bug all along of smoking
                        that old pipe! Rot the nasty, stinking old thing! It's a perfect
                        shame, Luke, for a man to just smoke what little brains he's got
                        clean out. You ought to be ashamed of yourself, so you ought!"
                    While she was speaking Betsy got the big wooden washbowl for her brother,
                        whereupon he proceeded to make his ablutions in a most energetic way, taking
                        up great double handfuls of water and sousing his face therein with loud
                        puffings, that enveloped his head in a cloud of spray.
                    When a clean tow linen towel had served its purpose, Luke remarked:
                    
                    "Don't know but what I am
                        some'at crazy in good earnest, Betsy, since I come to think it all
                        over. I'm r'ally onto it a right smart. What 'd
                        you think, Betsy, if I'd commence talkin' 'oman
                        to ye?"
                    "Luke, Luke! are you crazy? Is your mind clean gone out of your poor
                        smoky head?"
                    "That's not much of a answer to my question."
                    "Well, what do you mean, anyhow?"
                    "I mean business, that's what!"
                    "Luke!"
                    "Yes 'm."
                    "Do try to act sensible now. What is it, Luke? What makes your eyes
                        look so strange and dance about so? What do you mean by all this queer
                        talk?"
                    Luke finished combing, and, going to the table, sat down and was proceeding
                        to discuss the fried chicken and coffee without further remark, but Betsy
                        was not so easily balked. She, like most red haired women, wished her
                        questions to be fully and immediately answered, wherefore some indications
                        of a storm began to appear.
                    Luke smiled a quiet little smile that had hard work getting out through his
                        beard.  Betsy trotted her foot under the
                        table. Her hand trembled as she poured the coffeetrembled so violently that
                        she scalded her left thumb. It was about time for Luke to speak or have
                        trouble, so, in a very gentle voice, he said:
                    "Well, I saw a gala gal an,' her father, I reckongo by this
                        mornin'."
                    "Well, what of it? S'pose there's plenty of girls
                        and their fathers, ain't there?" snapped Betsy.
                    Luke drew a chicken leg through his mouth, laid down the bone, leered
                        comically at his sister from under his bushy eyebrows, and said:
                    "But the gal was purty, Betsypurty as a pictur', sweet as a
                        peach, juicy an' temptin' as a ripe, red cored
                        watermillion! Ton can't begin to guess how sweet an' nice
                        she did look. My heart just flolloped and flopped about, an'
                        it's at it yet!"
                    "Luke. Plunkett, you are crazy! You're
                        just as distracted as a blind dog in high rye. Drink a cup of hot coffee,
                        Luke, and go lie down a bit, you'll feel better." The
                        spinster was horrified beyond measure. She really thought her brother crazy.
                    The man finished his meal in silence, smiling 
                        the while more grimly than before, after which he took his shot gun and a
                        pan of salt and trudged off to a distant field to salt some cattle. He
                        always carried his gun with him on such occasions, and not unfreqnently
                        brought back a brace of partridges or some young squirrels. As he strode
                        along, thinking all the time of the girl in the carriage, he suddenly came
                        upon a corps of engineers with transit, level, rod and chain, staking out,
                        through the centre of a choice field, a line of survey for a railroad. In an
                        instant he was like a roaring lion. He glared for a second or so at the
                        intruders, then lowering his gun he charged them at a run, storming out as
                        he did so:
                    "What you doin' here, you onery cusses, you! Leave here!
                        Get out! Scratch! Sift! Dem yer onery skins, I'll shoot every dog
                        of ye! Git out 'n here, I sayout, out!"
                    The corps stampeded at once. The surveyor seized his transit, the leveller
                        his level, the rod man his rod, the axe men and chain men their respective
                        implements, and away they went, "lick-to-split, like a passel
                        o' scart hogs," as Luke afterwards said, "as fast
                        as they could ever wiggle along!"
                    No wonder they ran, for Luke looked like a demon of destruction. It was a
                        wild race for  the line fence, a full half
                        mile away. The leveler, being the hindmost man, rolled over this fence just
                        as a heavy bowlder, hurled by Luke, struck the top rail. It was a close
                        shave, a miss of a hair's breadth, a marvelous escape. Luke rushed
                        up to the fence and glared over at his intended victims. Here ho knew he
                        must stop, for he doubted the legality of pursuing them beyond the confines
                        of his own premises. Somewhat out of breath he leaned on the fence and
                        proceeded to swear at the corps individually and collectively, shaking his
                        fists at them excitedly, till the appearance of a new man on the scene made
                        him start and stare as if looking at a ghost. He was a well dressed,
                        gentlemanly appearing person of about the age of forty-five, pale and
                        thoughtfulcalm, gray eyed, commanding. Luke recognized him at once as the
                        man he had seen in the carriage, and, indeed, the vehicle itself stood hard
                        by, with a beautiful, laughing, roguish face looking out of one of the
                        windows. The lion in the stalwart farmer was quelled in an instant. He felt
                        his legs grow weak. He set his gun by the fence and touched his hat to the
                        little lady.
                    "Your name, I believe, is Luke Plunkett?" said the
                        approaching gentleman.
                    
                    "Yes, sir," said Luke.
                    "You own two thousand acres of land here?"
                    "Yes, sir."
                    "Your residence is called Rackenshack?"
                    "Yes, sir." (Suppressed titter from the carriage.)
                    "So I thought. Pull back, men (addressing the corps), pull back to
                        where you dropped the line and bring it right along. Mr. Plunkett will not
                        harm you now."
                    The corps began to move. Luke fiercely seized his gun; but before he could
                        lift it or utter a word, a ten-inch Colt's repeater was thrust into
                        his face by the calm gentleman, and a steady hand held it there.
                    "Mr. Plunkett," said the man, " I am the chief
                        engineer of theRailroad. I am making a location. The laws of this State give
                        me the right to go upon your land with my corps and have the survey made. I
                        am not to be trifled with. If you offer to cock that gun I'll put
                        six holes through you. What do you say, now?"
                    The voice was that of a cold man of business. There was a coffin in every
                        word. The muzzle of the pistol steadily covered Luke's left eye.
                        The situation was rigid. Luke hesitatedhis face ashy with anger and fear,
                        his  eyes alternating their glances between
                        the muzzle of the pistol and that wonderful shining face at the carriage.
                    "Shoot him, papa, shoot him! Shoot him!" Sweet as a silver
                        bell rang out the girl's voice, more like a ripple of idle song
                        than a murderous request, and then a clear, happy laugh went echoing off
                        through the woods in which the carriage stood.
                    Slowly, steadily, Luke let fall the breech of his gun upon the ground beside
                        him. The engineer smiled grimly and lowered his pistol, while the corps,
                        headed by the surveyor, took up its line of march to the point where work
                        had been so suddenly left off.
                    The young lady clapped her tiny white hands for joy.
                    A big black woodpecker began to cackle in a tree hard by.
                    Luke felt like a man in a dream.
                    The whole adventure, so far, had been clothed in most unreal seeming.
                    It can hardly be told how, by rapid transitions from one thing to another in
                        his talk, the engineer drew Luke's mind away from the late
                        difficulty and gradually aroused in him a kindly feeling. In less than ten
                        minutes the two men were sitting side by side on a log,  smoking cigars from the engineer's pouch and chatting
                        calmly, amicably.
                    Luke's eyes often rested steadily fixed in the direction of the
                        carriage. Through the thin veil of tobacco smoke the face of the young girl
                        seemed to the farmer angelic in its beauty. All around the sweets of summer
                        rose and fell, and drifted like scarcely visible shining mists, fraught with
                        the spice of leaf and perfume of blossom, agitated by swells of tricksy
                        wind, going on and on to the mysterious goal of the season.
                    The two men talked on until the corps had pushed the line of survey far past
                        them into the cool, shady deeps of the woods, whence their voices came back
                        fainter and fainter every moment. At length the engineer arose, and
                        stretching out his hand to Luke, said:
                    "Mr. Plunkett, I'm sure I'll be able to serve you
                        some time; let us be friends. I shall be in this vicinity most of the time
                        till the road is built. No doubt I can show a way to profit by the
                        construction of a railroad across your land. If you are sharp it will make
                        your fortune. I like your independent way, sir, and hope to know you better.
                        Here is my card."
                    Luke took the bit of pasteboard without saying a word. They shook hands and
                        the engineer got into his carriage.
                    
                    Here's my card, too, Mr. Plunkett," cried the girl. She
                        said something more, but the horses were made to plunge rapidly away, and
                        jewelled hand caught Luke's eye as adelicately tinted card came
                        fluttering towards him. He sprang and seized it. If a bag of diamonds had
                        been flung at his feet he could not have been more excited. His hands
                        trembled. All the incidents of the only fairy tale he had ever read came at
                        once into his mind. He stood with his feet turned in, like some great
                        awkward boy, a bashful, shame-faced look lurking about his mount and eyes.
                        He filled his pipe nervous eagerness. A squirrel came down to the lowest
                        limbs of a beech tree hard by and barked at him, but he did not notice it.
                        He read the names on the cards:
                    
                        
                            "Elliot Pearl, C. E."
                        
                            "Hoiden Pearl."
                        
                    
                    The first printed in small capitals, the second written in a delicate, rather
                        cramped feminine hand. He stood for a long time dreamily employed in turning
                        these bits of paper over and over. His thoughts were so vague in outline and
                        so dim in filling up that they cannot be reproduced. They slipped away on
                        the summer  air, like little puffs of perfume,
                        and were lost, to be found by many and many a one in the ineffable places of
                        dreamland. Finally, shaking himself as if to break the charm that held him
                        in its meshes, he took up his gun and slowly made his way homeward. All
                        along his walk he kept smiling to himself and talking aloud, but his words
                        were such that it would be sacrilege to repeat them now. Let them hover
                        about in the sunlight of summer, where he uttered them, as things too
                        delicate, to be pressed between the lids of a book.
                    Betsy had trouble with Luke for some days after this. He lay about the house,
                        saying little, eating little, giving little attention to the many tenants
                        who worked his estate. He was in good health, was not in trouble (so he said
                        to his sister), but he did not care to be bothered with business. He was
                        tired and would rest awhile. "He smoked pretty near all the
                        time," as Betsy declared. But not a hint fell from his lips as to
                        what might be running in his mind.
                    So the clays slipped past till July hung golden mists on the horizon and
                        filled the woods with that rare stillness and dusky slumbrousness that
                        follows the maturing of the foliage and the coming on of fruit. The cherry
                        trees at Rackenshack had grown ragged and dull, and the  birds, excepting a few swallows wheeling about the old chimney
                        tops, had all flown away to the woods and fields. The wheat had been cut and
                        stacked, the corn had received its last ploughing. Still Luke hung about the
                        house annoying Betsey with his pipe and his utter carelessness. That he was
                        "distracted" Betsy did not for a moment doubt. She used
                        every means her small stock of wit could invent to urge him out of his
                        singular mood, but without avail. He took to the few old novels he could
                        find about the house, but sometimes he would gaze blankly at a single
                        paragraph for a whole hour.
                    One morning as he lay on the porch, his head resting upon the back of a
                        chair, reading, or pretending to read an odd volume of "The
                        Scottish Chiefs," a little boy, 'Squire Brown's
                        son, came to bring home a monkey-wrench his father had borrowed some time
                        before. The boy was a bright, rattle-box, say-everything, pop-eyed sort of
                        child, and was not long telling all the news of the neighborhood. Luke gave
                        little attention to what he was saying, till at length he let fall something
                        about a young ladya fine, rich young lady, staying at Judge
                        Barnett'sa young lady who could outrun him, out jump him, beat him
                        playing marbles  and ball, who could climb
                        away up in the June apple tree, who could ride a colt bareback, who could
                        beat Jim Burnett shooting at a mark, who could, in fact, do a half a hundred
                        things to perfection that strict persons would think a young lady should
                        never do at all, but which seemed to make a heroine of her in the
                        narrator's boyish view.
                    "What's the gal's name?" queried Luke in
                        a slow, lazy way, but his eyes shot a gleam of hope.
                    "Hoidy Pearl," replied the lad.
                    Hoiden Pearl! That name had been woven into every sound that had reached
                        Luke's ears for days and nights and nights together, and now, like
                        a sweet tune nearly mastered, it took a deeper, tenderer meaning as the boy
                        pronounced it in his childish way.
                    "Hoidy Pearl is her name," the lad continued.
                        "She's come to stay at the Judge's all summer
                        till the new railroad's finished. Her father's the boss of
                        the road. She's jest the funniest girl, o-o-e! And she likes me,
                        too!"
                    Luke raised himself to a sitting posture and looked at the boy so earnestly
                        that he drew back a pace or two as if afraid.
                    "Boy, you're not lyin', are ye?" said the
                        man, in a low, earnest tone.
                    
                    "No I'm not, neither," was the quick reply.
                    Luke got up, flung aside his book and strolled off into the woods. Wandering
                        there in the cool, silent places, he dreamed his dream. For hours he sat by
                        a little spring stream in the dense shadow of a big cotton-wood tree. The
                        birds congregated about him, and chirped and sang; the squirrels came out
                        chattering and frisking from branch to branch; but he gave them no look of
                        recognitionhe saw them not, heard them not. The birds might have lit upon
                        his head and the squirrels might have run in and out of his pockets with
                        impunity. He smoked all the time, refilling and relighting his pipe whenever
                        it burned out. He did not know how much he was smoking, nor that he was
                        smoking at all. A bright face set in a mass of yellow curls, a wee white
                        hand all spangled with jewels, a voice sweeter than any bird's, a
                        nameHoiden Pearlthese rang, and danced, and echoed, and shone in the
                        recesses of his brain and heart to the exclusion of all else. He was trying
                        to think, but he could not. He wanted to mature a plan, but not even an
                        outline could find room in his head. It was full. Strange, indeed, it may
                        seem, that a rough farmer of Luke's age should thus fall into the
                        ways of the imaginative, sentimental 
                        stripling; but, after all, the fit must come on some time in life. No doubt
                        it goes harder with some constitutions than with others. Luke may have been
                        unwittingly strongly predisposed that way. Neither the exterior of a man nor
                        his surroundiugs will do to judge him by. Nature is that mysterious in all
                        her ways. Luke talked aloud, sometimes gesticulating in a quiet way.
                    "I must see the galI will see
                        the gal," he muttered at last. "It's no use
                        talkin', I jist will see her!"
                    Suddenly a light broke from his face. He smiled like one who has victory in
                        his grasplike an editor who has an idea, like a reviewer who has found some
                        bad verse. He got up immediately, went back to the barn, hitched a horse to
                        a small road wagon and drove to town. There he spent time and money with a
                        merchant tailor and other vendors of clothing. He was very fastidious in his
                        selection. Nothing but the finest would do him. A few days after this he
                        brought home a trunk full of princely raimentbroad cloth and fine linen.
                        Betsy was struck dumb with amazement when the trunk was opened. A dream of
                        such costly things, such reckless extravagance, would have driven her mad.
                        Silent, open-eyed, wondering,  she came in and
                        stood behind Luke while he was unpacking. He looked up presently and saw
                        her. His face flushed violently, and in a half-whining, half-ashamed tone he
                        muttered:
                    "Now, Betsy, you jest git out'n here faster'n ye
                        come in, for I'm not goin' to stan' no
                        foolin' at all, now. These 'ere's my clothes and
                        paid for out'n my money, an' I'm the jedge of
                        what I need. I ha'n't had any good duds for a long time,
                        and I'm tired o' lookin' like a scarecrow made
                        out 'n a salt bag. I've been thinkin' for a long
                        time I'd git these 'ere things, an' now
                        I've got 'm. You kin git you some if ye like, but I
                        don't want ye a standin' round here gawpin' at me
                        on 'count o' my clothes; so you go off an' mind
                        yer own affairs. It's no great sight to see some shirts,
                        an' coats, and pants, an' collars, ail' vests,
                        an' sich like, is it?"
                    Before this speech was finished Betsy had backed out of the room and closed
                        the door. As she did so she let go a sigh that came back to Luke like a
                        Parthian arrow; but it happened just then that he was holding up in front of
                        him a buff linen vest which kept the missile from his heart.
                    He dressed himself with great care, and an hour later he slipped out of the
                        house unseen, and took his way towards the rather pretentious  residence of Judge Barnett, the gables of
                        which, a mile away, gleamed between rows of Lombardy poplars. The Judge was
                        one or those half cultivated men who, in every country neighborhood, pass
                        for prodigies of learning and ability. He was the autocrat of the county in
                        political and social affairsone ot those men who really know a great deal,
                        but who arrogate more. He got his title from having been County Commissioner
                        when the court house was building. Some said he made money out of the
                        transaction, but our story is silent there.
                    It would have been an interesting study for a philosopher to have watched
                        Luke throughout the singular ramble he took that morning. It would have been
                        such a manifest revelation of the state of the fellow's feelings.
                        It would have minutely disclosed, and more eloquently than any verbal
                        confession, the rise and fall, the ebb and flow, the alternating strength
                        and weakness of his purpose, and the will behind it. Then, too, it would
                        have let fall delightful hints of the unselfishness of his new and
                        all-engrossing passion, and of the charming simplicity and sincerity of his
                        great rugged nature at its inner core. At first he struck out boldly a
                        direct line to Judge Barnett's residence, his  face beaming with the light of settled happiness, but as he
                        neared the pleasant grounds surrounding the house he began to discover some
                        trepidation. His gait wavered, the expression of his face shifted with each
                        step, and soon his course was indeterminatea fitful sauntering from this
                        place to thata tricksy, uneven flight, like that of a lazy butterfly, if one
                        may indulge the comparisona meandering in and out among the trees of a small
                        walnut grovea strolling here and there, now along the verge of a well set
                        old orchard, now down the low hedge behind the garden, and anon leaning over
                        the board fence that inclosed the Judge's ample barn and stable
                        lot; he gazed wistfully, half comically, in the direction of the upper
                        windows of the farm house. It was one of those peculiarly yellow days of
                        summer, when everything swims in a golden mist. The blue birds floated
                        aimlessly about from stake to stake of the fences; the wind, felt only in
                        jerky puffs, blew no particular way, and as idly and as eccentrically as any
                        blue bird, and in full accord with the fitful will of the wind, Luke drifted
                        through the sheen of summer all round Barnett Place. He lazed about, humming
                        a tune, and, for a wonder, not smokinghalf restless, half contented, looking
                             for something, scarcely expecting
                        anything. When once a great rough man does get into a childish way, he is a
                        child of which ordinary children would be ashamed, and just then Luke, the
                        big bashful fellow, was an instance strikingly in point. Occasionally he
                        talked half aloud to himself. Once, while lounging on the orchard fence,
                        gazing down between the long rows of russet and pippin trees, he said
                        dreamily,
                    "I must see her. I can't go back
                        'ithont seein' her." It so chanced that just then
                        a shower of blackbirds fell upon the orchard, covering the trees and the
                        ground, flying over and over each other, twittering and whistling as only
                        blackbirds can. Their wings smote together with a tender rustling sound like
                        that of a spring wind in young foliage, or of a thousand lovers whispering
                        together by moonlight. Luke watched them a long while, a doleful shade
                        gathering in his face. "The little things loves each
                        other," he muttered; "everything loves something;
                        an' jest dern my lights ef I don't love the gal,
                        an' I'm boun' to see her!" Seemingly
                        nerved by sudden resolution, he climbed over the fence and started at a
                        slashing pace across the orchard towards the house, scaring all the birds
                        into an ecstasy  of flight, so that they
                        dashed themselves against the foliage of the apple trees, making it rustle
                        and sway as if blown on by a strong wind. He did not keep on, however. His
                        resolution seemed to burn out about midway the orchard. He began to drift
                        around again, his pace becoming slower and slower. His shoulders drooped
                        forward as if burdened with a great load, his eyes turned restlessly from
                        side to side.
                    "I jest can't do it!" he murmured"I jest
                        can't do it, an' I mought as well go back!" There
                        was a petulant ring to his voicea nervous, worried tone, that had despair in
                        it.
                    Out of a June apple tree right over his head fell a sweet, silvery, half
                        child's, half woman's voice, that thrilled him through,
                        every fibre to the marrow of his bones.
                    "What's the matter, Goosey?" What have you lost?
                        What are you hunting for? Want a good apple?"
                    Luke looked up just in time to catch squarely on his nose a fine, ripe June
                        apple, and through a mist of juice and a sheeny curtain of leaves he saw the
                        lovely face he had come to look for. A thump on the nose from an apple, no
                        matter if it is ripe and soft, is a little embarrassing, and it only makes
                        it more so  when the racy wine of the fruit
                        flies into one's eyes and all over one's new clothes. But
                        there are moments of supreme bliss when such a mishap passes unnoticed. Luke
                        felt as if the blow had been the touch of a magician conjuring up a scene
                        that held him rapt and speechless.
                    "O, my! I didn't go to hit you! Please excuse me, sirdo. I
                        thought you 'd catch it in your hands."
                    She came lightly down from the tree, descending like a bird, easily,
                        gracefully, as if she had been born to climb. She murmured many apologies,
                        but the genius of fun danced in her saucy, almost impertinent eyes, belying
                        her regretful words. Luke looked down at her dazed and speechless. She,
                        however, was full of prattlehalf childish, half womanly, half serious, half
                        banteringher eyes upturned to his, her voice a very bird's in
                        melody. In the more innocent sense of the word she looked like her name,
                        Hoiden. Nothing unchaste or indelicate about her appearance; just a sort of
                        want of restraint; a freedom that amounted to an utter lack of
                        responsibility to the ordinary claims and dictates of propriety. A close,
                        trained, intelligent observer would have seen at once that she was wilful,
                        spoiled,  unbridled, but not bad, not in the
                        least vicious; really innocent and full of good impulses. She was beautiful,
                        toowonderfully beautifuljust on the hither side of womanhood, plump,
                        budding, bewitching. How she did it can never be known, but she soon had
                        Luke racing with her all over the orchard. They climbed trees together, they
                        scrambled for the same apple, they laughed, and shouted, and played till the
                        horn at the farmhouse, called the field hands to dinner. They parted then,
                        as children part, promising to meet again the next day. The girl's
                        checks were rosy with exercise, so were Luke's.
                    How strange! Day after day that great, bearded, almost middle-aged, uncouth
                        farmer went and played slave to that chit of a girl, doing whatever
                        ridiculous or childish thing she proposed, caring for nothing, asking for
                        nothing but to be with her, listen to her voice and feast his eyes upon her
                        beauty. He gladly bore everything she heaped upon him, and to be called
                        "Goosey" by her was to him inexpressibly charming.
                    Betsy's womanly nature was not to be deceived. She soon comprehended
                        all; but she dared not mention the subject to Luke. He was in no mood to be
                        opposed. So he went onand Betsy sighed.
                    
                    The summer softened into autumn. The maple leaves reddened. The long grass
                        turned brown and lolled over. A softness and tenderness lurked in the deep
                        blue sky, and the air had a sharp racy fragrance from ripe fruit and grain.
                        Meantime the railroad had been pushed with amazing rapidity nearly to
                        completion. Every day long construction trains went crashing across
                        Luke's farm. Passenger coaches were to be put on in a few days.
                        Luke was the very picture of happiness. He seemed to grow younger every day.
                        His worldly prospects, too, were flattering. A station had been located on
                        his land, around which a town had already begun to spring up. The vast value
                        of Luke's timber, walnut and oak, was just beginning to appear;
                        indeed, immense wealth lay in his hands. But his happiness was of a deeper
                        and purer sort than that generated by simple pecuniary prosperity. Hoiden
                        Pearl was in the focus of all his thoughts; her face lighted his dreams, her
                        voice made the music that charmed him into a wonderland of bliss. He said
                        little about her, even to Betsy, but it needed no sharpness of sight to
                        discover from his face what was going on in his heart. He had even forgotten
                        his pipe. He had not smoked since that first day in the  orchard. He had straightened up and looked a span taller.
                    The girl did not seem to dream of any tender attachment on Luke's
                        part. In fact he gave her no cause for it. He fed on his love inwardly and
                        never thought of telling it. To be with her was enough. It satisfied all his
                        wants. She was frank and free with him, but tyrannized over himordered him
                        about like a servant, scolded him, flattered him, pouted at him, smiled on
                        him, indeed kept him crazy with rapture all the time. Once only she became
                        confidentially communicative. It was one day, sitting on an old mossy log in
                        the Judge's woodland pasture, she told him the story of her past
                        life. How thrillingly beautiful her face became as it sobered down with the
                        history of early orphanage! Her father had died first; then her mother, who
                        left her four years old in the care of Mr. Pearl, her paternal uncle, with
                        whom she had ever since been, going from place to place, as the calls of his
                        nomadic profession made it necessary, from survey to survey, from this State
                        to that, seeing all sorts of people, and receiving her education in small,
                        detached parcels. The story was a sad, unsatisfactory one, breathing
                        neglect, yet full of a certain kind of sprightli  ness, and touched here and there with the fascination of true
                        romance.
                    It is hard to say when Luke would have awakened from his tender trance to the
                        strong reality of love. He was too contented for self-questioning, and no
                        act or word of Hoiden's invited him to consider what he was doing
                        or whither he was drifting.
                    It was well for Luke and the girl, too, that it was a sparsely settled
                        neighborhood, for evil tongues might have made much of their constant
                        companionship and childish behavior.
                    As for the Judge, after it was all over he admitted that he felt some qualms
                        of conscience about allowing such unlimited intimacy to go on, but he
                        excused himself by saying that the girl, when confined to the house, was
                        such an unmitigated nuisance that he was glad for some one to monopolize her
                        company.
                    "Why," said he, in his peculiar way, "she set the
                        whole house by the ears. She made more clatter and racket than a four-horse
                        Pennsylvania wagon coming down a rocky hill. She would go from garret to
                        cellar like a whirlwind and twist things wrong side out as she wentshe was a
                        tart!"
                    But at length, toward the middle of autumn the end came. Luke had business
                        with some  hog-buyers in Cincinnati, whither
                        lie was gone several days. Meantime the railroad was completed, and Mr.
                        Pearl came to the Judge's early one morning and called for Hoiden.
                        His business with his employers was ended, and he had just finished an
                        arrangement that had long been on foot to go to one of the South American
                        States and take charge of a vast engineering scheme there. The girl was
                        delighted. Such a prospect of travel and adventure was enough to set one of
                        her temperament wild with enthusiasm. She flew to packing her trunk, her
                        face radiant with joy.
                    Only an hour later Mr. Pearl and Hoiden stood at the new station on
                        Luke's land, waiting for the east-going train. Mr. Pearl happened
                        to think of a business message he wished to leave for Luke, so ho went into
                        the depot building and wrote it. When Hoiden saw the letter was for Luke she
                        begged leave to put in a "few words of postscript, and she had her
                        way.
                    The train came and the man and girl were whirled away to New York, and thence
                        they took ship for South America, never to return.
                    Next day Luke came back, bringing with him a beautifully carved mahogany box
                        mounted in silver. Betsv met him at the  door,
                        and, woman-like, told the story of Hoiden's departure almost at the
                        first breath.
                    "Gone all the way to South America," she added, after
                        premising that she would never return.
                    A peculiarly grim, grayish smile mantled the face of Luke. He swallowed a
                        time or two before he could speak.
                    "Come now, sis" (he always said "sis"
                        when he felt somewhat at Betsy's mercy), "come now, sis,
                        don't try to fool me. I'm goin' right over to see
                        the gal now, an' I've got what'll tickle her
                        awfully right here in this 'ere box."
                    Out in the yard the blue jays and woodpeckers were quarrelling over the late
                        apples heaped up by the cider mill. The sky was clear, but the sunlight,
                        coming through a smoky atmosphere, was pale, like the smile of a sick man.
                        The wind of autumn ran steadily through the shrubby weedy lawn with a sigh
                        that had in it the very essence of sadness.
                    "I tell you, Luke, I'm not trying to fool you;
                        they've gone clean to South America to stay always,"
                        reiterated Betsy.
                    Luke gazed for a moment steadily into his sister's eyes, as if
                        looking for a sign. Slowly his stalwart body and muscular limbs relaxed  and collapsed. The box fell to the floor with
                        a crash, where it burst, letting roll out great hoops of gold and starry
                        rings and pinsa gold watch and chain, a beautiful gold pen and pencil case,
                        and trinkets and gew-gaw things almost innumerable. They must have cost the
                        full profits of his business trip.
                    Luke staggered into a chair. Betsy just then happened to think of the letter
                        that had been left for her brother. This she fetched and handed to him. It
                        was the note of business from Mr. Pearl. There was a postscript in a
                        different hand:
                    
                        
                            "Good-bye, Goosey!
                        
                        
                            Hoidy Pearl."
                        
                    
                    That was all. Luke is more morose and petulant than he used to be. He is
                        decaying about apace with Rackenshack, and he smokes constantly. He is
                        vastly wealthy and unmarried.
                    Betsy is quiet and kind. Up stairs in her chest is hidden the mahogany coffer
                        full of golden testimonials of her brother's days of happiness and
                        the one dark hour of his despair!
                
                
                
                    THE PEDAGOGUE.
                    HE was one of the farmer princes of Hoosierdom, a man of
                        more than average education, a fluent talker and ready with a story. Knowing
                        that I was looking up reminiscences of Hoosier life and specimens of Hoosier
                        character, he volunteered one evening to give me the following, vouching for
                        the truth of it. Here it is, as I "short-handed" it from
                        his own lips. I omit quotation marks.
                    The study of one's past life is not unlike the study of geology. If
                        the presence of the remains of extinct species of animals and vegetables in
                        the ancient rocks calls up in one's mind a host of speculative
                        thoughts touching the progress of creation, so, as we cut with the pick of
                        retrospection through the strata of by gone days, do the remains of departed
                        things, constantly turning up, put one into his studying cap to puzzle over
                        specimens fully as curious and interesting in their way as the cephalaspis.
                    
                    The first stratum of my intellectual formation contains most conspicuously
                        the remains of dog-eared spelling boots, a score or more of them by
                        different names, among which the Elementary of Webster is
                        the best preserved and most clearly defined. It was finding an old, yellow,
                        badly thumbed and dirt soiled copy of Webster's spelling book in
                        the bottom of an old chest of odds and ends, on the fly-leaf of which book
                        was written "T. Blodgett," that lately brightened my
                        memory of the things I am about to tell you.
                    The old time pedagogue is a thing of the pastpars temporis
                        acti is the Latin of it, may be, but I'm not sureI'm
                        rusty in the Latin now. When I quit school I could read it a good deal. But
                        of the pedagogue. The twenty years since he ceased to flourish seem, on
                        reflection, like an agean on, as the Greeks would say. I
                        never did know much Greek. I got most of my education from pedagogues of the
                        old sort. They kept pouring it on to me till it soaked in. That's
                        the way I got it. I have had corns and bunions on my back for not being
                        sufficiently porous to absorb the multiplication table rapidly enough to
                        suit the whim of one of those learned tyrants. But the pedagogue became
                        extinct and passed into the  fossil state some
                        twenty years ago, when free schools took good hold. He scampered away when
                        he heard the whistle of the steam engine along iron highways and the cry of
                        small boys on the streets of the towns hawking the daily papers. He could
                        live nowhere within the pale of innovation. He was born an exemplar of
                        rigidity. The very name of reform was hateful to him. We older fellows
                        remember him well, but to the younger fry he is not even a fossil, he is a
                        myth. Of course pedagogues differed slightly in the matter of particular
                        disposition and real character, but in a general way they had a close family
                        resemblance.
                    I purpose to write of one BlodgettT. Blodgett, as it was written in the
                        fly-leaf of Webster's Elementaryand he was an extraordinary
                        specimen of the genus pedagogue. But before I introduce him, let me, by way
                        of preface and prelude, give you a view of the salients of the history of
                        the days when pole-ribbed school houseslog cabin school housesflourished,
                        with each a pedagogue for supreme, "unquestioned and
                        unquestionable" despot.
                    In those fine days boys from five to fifteen years of age wore tow linen
                        pants held up by suspenders (often made of tow strings), and  having at each side pockets that reached down
                        to about the wearer's knees. These pockets held as much as a
                        moderate sized bushel basket will now. The girls, big and little, wore mere
                        tow linen slips, that hung loose from the shoulders. Democracy, pure and
                        undefiled, flourished like a green buckeye tree. Society was in about the
                        same condition as a boy is when his voice is changing. You know when a
                        boy's voice is changing if you hear him in another room getting his
                        lesson by saying it over aloud, you think there's about fourteen
                        girls, two old men, and a dog barking in the room. Society was much the
                        same. The elements of everything were in it, but not developed and separated
                        yet. Women rode behind their husbands on the same horse, occasionally
                        reaching round in the man's lap to feel if the baby was properly
                        fixed. Sometimes the girls rode to singing school behind their sweethearts.
                        At such times the horses always kicked up, and, of course, the girls had to
                        hold on. The boys liked the holding on part. Young men went courting always
                        on Saturday night. The girls wouldn't suffer any hugging before
                        eleven o'clockunless the old folk were remarkably early to bed.
                        Candles were scarce in those days, so that billing and  cooing was done by very dim fire-light. O, le bon
                            temps! I've forgot whether that's Latin or
                        French.
                    The pedagogue was the intellectual and moral centre of the neighborhood. He
                        was of higher authority, even in the law, than the Justice of the Peace. He
                        was consulted on all subjects, and, as a rule, his decisions were final, and
                        went upon the people's record as law. His jurisdiction was
                        unlimited, as to subject matter or amount, and, as to the person, was
                        unquestioned. Of course his territory was bounded by the circumstances of
                        each particular case.
                    I just now recollect quite a number of pedagogues who in turn ruled me in my
                        youthful days. Of one of them I never think without feeling a strange
                        sadness steal over me. He was a young fellow whom to know was to love; pale,
                        delicate, tender-hearted. He taught us two terms and we all thought him the
                        best teacher in the world. Ho was so kind to us, so gentle and mild-voiced,
                        so prone to pat us on our heads and encourage us. Some of the old people
                        found fault with him because, as they alleged, he did not whip us enough,
                        but we saw no force in the objection. Well, he took a cough and began to
                        fail. He dismissed  us one fine May evening
                        and we saw him no more alive. We all followed him, in a solemn line, to his
                        grave, and for a long time thereafter we never spoke of him except in a low,
                        sad whisper. As for me, till long afterwards, the hushed wonder of his white
                        face haunted nay dreams. I have now in my possession a little bead
                        money-purse he gave me.
                    Blodgett came next, and here my story properly begins. Blodgettwho, having
                        once seen him, could ever forget Blodgett? Not I. He was too marked a man to
                        ever wholly fade from memory. He was, as I have said, a perfect type of his
                        kind, and his kind was such as should not be sneered at. He was one of the
                        humble pioneers of American letters. He was a character of which our
                        national history must take account. He was one of the vital forces of our
                        earlier national growth. He was in love with learning. He considered the
                        matter of imparting knowledge a mere question of effort, in which the
                        physical element preponderated. If he couldn't talk or read it into
                        one he took a stick and mauled it into him. This mauling method, though
                        somewhat distasteful to the subject, always had a charming resultred eyes, a
                        few blubbers and a good lesson. The technical name of this method  "was "Warming
                            the Jacket." It always seemed to me that the peewee birds
                        sang very dolefully after I had had my jacket warmed. I recollect my
                        floggings at school with so much aversion that I do think, if a teacher
                        should whale one of iny little ruddy-faced boys, I'd spread his
                        (the teacher's) nose over his face as thin as a rabbit skin!
                        I'd run both his eyes into one and chew his ears off close to his
                        head, sir! Forgive my earnestness, but I can't stand flogging in
                        schools. It's brutal.
                    From the first day that Blodgett came circulating his school
                        "articles" among us, we took to him by common consent as a
                        wonderfully learned man. I think his strong, wise looking face, and
                        reserved, pompous manners, had much to do with making this impression. We
                        believed in him fully, and for a long time gave him unfaltering loyalty. As
                        for me, I never have wholly withdrawn my allegiance. I look back, even now,
                        and admire him. I sigh, thinking of the merry days when he flourished. I
                        solemnly avow my faith in progress. I know the world advances every day,
                        still I doubt if men and women are more worthy now than they were in the
                        time of the pedagogues. I don't know but what, after all, I am
                        somewhat of a fogy. Any how, I will not,  for
                        the sake of pleasing your literary swallowsyour eclectics
                        of to-dayturn in and berate my dear old Blodgett. In his day men could not
                        and did not skim the surface of things like swallows on a mill pond. They
                            dived, and got what they did get from the bottom, and
                        by honest labor. Whenever one of your silk-winged swallows skims past me and
                        whispers progress, I cannot help thinking of Heyne, Jean Paul andBlodgett.
                        Somehow genius and poverty are great cronies. It used to be more so than it
                        is now. Blodgett was a genius, and, consequently, poor. He was virtuous,
                        and, of course, happy. He was a Democrat and a Hard Shell Baptist, and he
                        might never have swerved from the path of rectitude, even to the extent of a
                        hair's breadth, if it had not been for the coming of a not over
                        scrupulous rival into the neighboring village. But I must not hasten. A
                        little more and I would have blurted out the whole nub of my story. Bear
                        with me. I have nothing of the "lightning calculator" in
                        me. I must take my time. It has been agreed that biography must include
                        somewhat of physical portraiture. "What sort of looking man was
                        Blodgett?" I will tell you as nearly as I can, but bear in mind it
                        is a long time since I saw him, and, in  the
                        meanwhile, the world has been so washed, and combed, and trimmed, and pearl
                        powdered, that one can scarcely be sure he recollects things rightly. The
                        seedy dandy who teaches the free schools of to-day, is, no doubt, all right
                        as things go; but then the way they gothat's it! As for finding
                        some one of these dapper, umbrella-lugging, green-spectacled, cadaverous
                        teachers to compare with our burly Blodgett, the thing is preposterous.
                    Our pedagogue, when he first came among us, was, as nearly as I can judge,
                        about forty, and a bachelor, tall, raw-boned, lean-faced, and musculara man
                        of many words, and big ones, but not over prone to seek audience of the
                        world. To me, a boy of twelve, he appeared somewhat awful, especially when
                        plying the beech rod for the benefit of a future man, and I do still think
                        that something harder than mere sternness slept or woke in and around the
                        lines of his strong, flat jawsthat something sharper than acid shrewdness
                        lurked in his light gray eyes, and that surely a more powerful expression
                        than ordinary brute obstinacy lingered about his firm mouth and smoothly
                        shaven chin.
                    Blodgett had a mighty body and a mighty will, joined with a self-appreciation
                        only bounded  by bis power to generate it.
                        This, added to the deep deference with which he was approached by everybody,
                        made him not a little arrogant and despoticthough, doubtless, he was less so
                        than most men, under like circumstances, would have been. His years sat
                        lightly on him. His step was youthful though slouching, his raven hair was
                        bright and wavy, his skin had the tinge of vigorous health, and in truth he
                        was not far from handsome. His voice was nasal, but pleasantly so.
                    I cannot hope to give you more than a faint idea of the absolute power vested
                        in Blodgett by the men, women and children of the school vicinage; suffice
                        it to say that his view was a sine qua non to every
                        neighborhood opinion, his words the basis of neighborhood action in all
                        matters of public interest. If he pronounced the parson's last
                        sermon a failure, at once the entire church agreed in condemning it, not
                        only as a failure but a consummate blunder. If he hinted that a certain new
                        comer impressed him unfavorably, the nincompoop was summarily kicked out of
                        society. In fact, in the pithy phraseology of these latter days,
                        "it was dangerous to be safe" about where he lived.
                    Thus, for a long time, Blodgett ruled with  an
                        iron hand his little world, with no one to dream of disputing his right or
                        of doubting his capacity, till at length fate let fall a bit of romance into
                        the strong but placid stream of his life, and tinged it all with rose color.
                        He wrote some poetry, but it is obsoletethat is, it is not now in existence.
                        While this streak of romance lasted he looked, for all the world, like a
                        gilt-edged mathematical problem drawn on rawhide.
                    It was a great event in our neighborhood when Miss Grace Holland, a
                        yellow-haired, blue-eyed, very handsome and well educated young lady from
                        Louisville, Kentucky, came to spend the summer with Parson Holland, our
                        preacher, and the young woman's uncle. Kentucky girls are all
                        sweet. My wife was a Kentucky girl. All the young men fell in love with Miss
                        Holland right away, but it was of no use to them. Blodgett, in the language
                        of your fast youngsters, "shied his castor into the ring,"
                        and what was there left for the others but to stand by and see the glory of
                        the pedagogue during the season of his wooing? It would have done your eyes
                        good to see the pedagogue "slick himself up" each Saturday
                        evening preparatory to visiting the parson's. He went into the
                        details of the  toilette with an enthusiasm
                        worthy a better result. Ordinarily he was ostentatiously pious and grave,
                        but now his nature began to slip its bark and disclose an inner rind of real
                        mirthfulness, which made him quite pleasant company for Miss Holland, who,
                        though a mere girl, was sensible and old enough to enjoy the many marked
                        peculiarities of the pedagogue.
                    On Blodgett's side it was lovejust the blindest, craziest kind of
                        love, at first sight. As to Miss Holland, I cannot say. One never can
                        precisely say as to a woman; guessing at a woman's feelings, in
                        matters of love, is a little like wondering which makes the music, a
                        boy's mouth or the jewsharpa doubtful affair.
                    Great events never come singly. When it rains it pours. If you have seen a
                        bear, every stump is a bear. A few days after the advent of Miss Holland
                        came a pop-eyed, nervous, witty little fellow with a hand press, and started
                        a weekly paper in our village. A newspaper in town! It was startling.
                    Blodgett from the first seemed not to relish the innovation, but public
                        sentiment had set in too strongly in its favor for him to jeopardize his
                        reputation by any serious denunciations. A real live paper in our midst was
                        no small  matter. Everybody subscribed, and so
                        did Blodgett.
                    It did, formerly, require a little brains to run a newspaper, and in those
                        days an editor was looked upon as nearly or quite as learned and intelligent
                        as a pedagogue; but everybody, however ignorant himself, could not fail to
                        see that one represented progress, the other conservatism, and formerly most
                        persons were Ultra-Conservatives. This, of course, gave the pedagogue a
                        considerable advantage.
                    Of course Blodgett and the editor soon became acquainted. The latter, a
                        dapper Yankee, full of "get-up-and-snap," and alert to
                        make way for his paper, measured the pedagogue at a glance, seeing at
                        'once that a big bulk of strong sense and a will like iron were
                        enwrapped in the stalwart Hoosier's brain. One of two things must
                        be done. Blodgett must be vanquished or his influence secured. He must be
                        prevailed on to endorse the Star (the new paper), or the
                            Star must attack and destroy him at once.
                    Meantime the pedagogue grimly waited for an opportunity to demolish the
                        editor. The big Hoosier had no thought of compromise or currying favor. He
                        would sacrifice the little sleek, stuck-up, big-headed, pop-eyed, Romannosed
                             Yankee between his thumb nails as he
                        would a flea. Blodgett was a predestinarian of the old school, and was
                        firmly imbedded in the belief that from all eternity it had been
                        fore-ordained that he was to attend to just such fellows as the editor.
                    Still, the little lady from Louisville took up so much of his time, and so
                        distracted his mind, that no well laid plan of attack could be matured by
                        the pedagogue. But when nations wish to fight it is easy to find a pretext
                        for war. So with individuals. So with the editor and Blodgett. They soon
                        came to open hostilities and raised the black flag. What an uproar it did
                        make in the county!
                    This war seemed to come about quite naturally. It had its beginning in a
                        debating society, where Blodgett and the editor were leading antagonists.
                        The question debated was, "Which has done more for the cause of
                        human liberty, Napoleon or Wellington?"
                    Two village men and two countrymen were the jury to decide which side offered
                        the best argument. The jury was out all night and finally returned a split
                        verdict, two of them standing for Blodgett and two for the editor. Of course
                        it was town against countrythe villagers for the editor, the country folk
                        for the pedagogue.
                    
                    "Huzza for the little editor!" cried the town people.
                    "'Rah for Blodgett!" bawled the lusty country
                        folk.
                    The matter quickly came to blows at certain parts of the room. Jim Dowder
                        caught Phil Gates by the hair and snatched him over two seats. Sarah Jane
                        Beaver hit Martha Ann Eandall in the mouth with a reticule full of hazel
                        nuts. Farmer Heath choked storekeeper Jones till his face was as blue as
                        moderate-like indigo. Old Mrs. Baber pulled off Granny Logan's wig
                        and threw it at 'Squire Hank. But Pete Develin wound the thing up
                        with a most disgraceful feat. He seized a bucket half full of water and
                        deliberately poured it right on top of the editor's head.
                    This was the beginning of trouble and fun. Some lawsuits grew out of it and
                        some hard fisticuffs. All the country-folk sided with Blodgettthe towns-folk
                        with the editor. The Star began to get dim, but the
                        editor, shrewd dog, when he saw how things were turning, at once took up the
                        question of Napoleon vs. Wellington in his journal, kindly and
                        condescendingly offering his columns to Blodgett for the discussion.
                    The pedagogue foolishly accepted the challenge,  and thus laid the stones upon which he was to fall. So the antagonists
                        sharpened their goose quills and went at it. In sporting circles the proverb
                        runs: never bet on a man's own trick. Blodgett ought to have known
                        better than to go to the editor's own ground to fight.
                    I have always suspected that Miss Holland did much to shear our Samson of his
                        strength. She certainly did, wittingly or unwittingly, occupy too much of
                        his time and thought. Poor fellow! he would have given his life for her. He
                        often looked at her, with his head turned a little one side, sadly,
                        thoughtfully, as I have seen a terrier look at a rat hole, as though he half
                        expected disappointment.
                    The battle in the Star began in very earnest. It was a
                        harvest for the shrewd journalist. Everybody took the Star
                        while the discussion was going on. Everybody took sides, everybody got mad,
                        and almost everybody fought more or less. Even Parson Holland and the
                        village preacher had high words and ceased to recognize each other. As for
                        the young lady from Louisville, she had little to say about the discussion,
                        though Blodgett always read to her each one of his articles first in MS. and
                        then in the Star after it was printed.
                    
                    Well, finally, in the very height of the war of words, the editor, in one of
                        his articles, indulged in Latin. As you are aware, when an editor gets right
                        down to pan-rock Latin, it's a sure sign lie's after
                        somebody. This instance was no exception to the general rule. He was baiting
                        for the pedagogue. The pedagogue swallowed hook and all.
                    "Nil de mortuis nisi bonum," said the
                        editor, "is my motto, which may be freely translated: "If
                        you can't say something good of the dead, keep your tarnal mouth
                        shut about them!"
                    Blodgett started as he read this, and for a full minute thereafter gazed
                        steadily and inquiringly on vacancy. At length his great bony right hand
                        opened slowly, then quickly shut like a vice.
                    "I have him! I have him!" he muttered in a murderous tone,
                        "I'll crush him to impalpable dust!" He forthwith
                        went for a small Latin lexicon and began busily searching its pages. It was
                        Saturday evening, and so busily did he labor at what was on his mind, he
                        came near forgetting his regular weekly visit to Miss Holland.
                    He did not forget it, however. He went; without pointing out to her the exact
                        spot so vulnerable to his logical arrows, he told her in  a confidential and confident way tliat his
                        next letter would certainly make an end of the editor. He told her that, at
                        last, he had the shallow puppy where he could expose him thoroughly. Of
                        course Miss Holland was curious to know more, but, with a grim smile,
                        Blodgett shook his head, saying that to insure utter victory he must keep
                        his own counsel.
                    The next day, though the Sabbath, was spent by the pedagogue writing his
                        crusher for the Star. He wrote it and re-wrote it, over
                        and over again. He almost ruined a Latin grammar and the afore-mentioned
                        lexicon. He worked till far in the night, revising and elaborating. His gray
                        eyes burned like live coalshis jaws were set for victory.
                    That week was one of intense excitement all over the county, for somehow it
                        had come generally to be understood that the pedagogue's
                        forthcoming essay was to completely defeat and disgrace the editor. Work,
                        for the time, was mostly suspended. The school children did about as they
                        pleased, so that they were careful not to break rudely in upon
                        Blodgett's meditations.
                    On the day of its issue the Star was in great demand. For
                        several hours the office was crowded with eager subscribers, hungry for a
                             copy. The 'Squire and two
                        constables had some trouble to keep down a genuine riot.
                    The following is an exact copy of Blodgett's great essay: 
                            
                                
                                    MR. EDITORSIR: This, for two reasons, is my last
                                        article for your journal. Firstly: My time and the
                                        exigencies of my profession will not permit me to further
                                        pursue a discussion which, on your part, has degenerated
                                        into the merest twaddle. Secondly: It only needs, at my
                                        hands, an exposition of the false and fraudulent claims you
                                        make to classical attainments, to entirely annihilate your
                                        unsubstantial and wholly undeserved popularity in this
                                        community, and to send you back to peddling your bass wood
                                        hams and maple nutmegs. In order to put on a false show of
                                        erudition, you lug into your last article a familiar Latin
                                        sentence. Now, sir, if you had sensibly foregone any attempt
                                        at translation, you might, possibly, have made some one
                                        think you knew a shade more than a horse; but "whom
                                        the gods would destroy they first make mad."
                                    You say, "De mortuis nil nisi
                                        bonum" may be freely translated, "If
                                        you can't say something good of the dead, keep your
                                        tarnal mouth shut about them!" Shades of Horace and
                                        Praxiteles! What would Pindar or Csar say? But  I will not jest at the
                                        expense of sound scholarship. In conclusion, I simply submit
                                        the following literal translation of the Latin sentence in
                                        question: "Deof, mortuisthe dead, nil-nothing,
                                            nisibut, bonumgoods," so that the whole quotation may
                                        be rendered as follows"Nothing (is left) of the
                                        dead but (their) goods." This is strictly according
                                        to the dictionary. Here, so far as I am concerned, this
                                        discussion ends.
                                    Your ob't serv't,
                                        T. BLODGETT.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    The country flared into flames of triumph. Blodgett's friends
                        stormed the village and "bully-ragged"
                        everybody who had stood out for the editor. The little Yankee, however, did
                        not appear in the least disconcerted. His clear, blue, pop-eyes really
                        seemed twinkling with half suppressed joy. Blodgett put a copy of the Star into his pocket and stalked proudly, victoriously,
                        out of town.
                    After supper he dressed himself with scrupulous care and went over to see
                        Miss Holland. Rumor said they were engaged to be married, and I believe they
                        were.
                    On this particular evening the young lady was enchantingly pretty, dressed in
                        white muslin and blue ribbons, her bright yellow hair flowing full and free
                        down upon her  plump shoulders, her face
                        radiant with health and high spirits. She met the pedagogue at the door with
                        more than usual warmth of welcome. He kissed her hand. All that he said to
                        her that evening will never be known. It is recorded, however, that, when he
                        had finished reading his essay to her, she got up and took from her
                        travelling trunk a "Book of Foreign Phrases," and examined
                        it attentively for a time, after which she was somewhat uneasy and reticent.
                        Blodgett observed this, but he was too dignified to ask an explanation.
                    The "last day" of Blodgett's school was at hand.
                        The "exhibition" came off on Saturday. Everybody went
                        early. The pedagogue was in his glory. He did not know the end was so near.
                        A little occurrence, toward evening, however, seemed to foreshadow it.
                    Blodgett called upon the stage a bright eyed, ruddy faced lad, his favorite
                        pupil, to translate Latin phrases. The boy, in his Sunday best, and sleekly
                        combed, came forth and bowed to the audience, his eyes luminous with
                        vivacity. The little fellow was evidently precociousa rapid if not a very
                        accurate thinkerone of those children who always have an answer ready, right
                        or wrong.
                    After several preliminary questions, very 
                        promptly and satisfactorily disposed of, Blodgett said:
                    "Now, sir, translate Monstrum horrendum informe
                        ingens."
                    Quick as lightning the child replied:
                    "The horrid monster informed the Indians!"
                    Fury! The face of the pedagogue grew livid. He stretched forth his hand and
                        took the boy by the back of the neck. The curtain fell, but the audience
                        could not help hearing what a flogging the boy got. It was terrible.
                    Even while this was going on a rumor rippled round the outskirts of the
                        audiencefor you must know that the "exhibition" was held
                        under a bush arbor erected in front of the school house doora rumor, I say,
                        rippled round the outer fringe of the audience. Some one had arrived from
                        the village and copies of the Star were being freely
                        distributed. Looks of blank amazement flashed into people'sfaces.
                        The name of the editor and that of Prof. W, of Wabash College, began to fly
                        in sharp whispers from mouth to mouth. The crowd reeled and swayed. Men
                        began to talk aloud. Finally everybody got on his feet and confusion and
                        hubbub reigned supreme. The exhibition was broken up. Blodgett came out of
                        the school house upon the stage when he heard the noise.  He gazed around. Some one thrust a copy of
                        the Star into his hand.
                    Poor Blodgett! We may all fall. The crowd resolved itself into an indignation
                        meeting then and there, at which the following extract from the Star was read, followed by resolutions dismissing and disgracing
                        Blodgett:
                    "The following letter is rich reading for those who have so long
                        sworn by T. Blodgett. We offer no comment: 
                            
                                
                                    "EDITOR of the STARDEAR SIR:
                                        In answer to your letter requesting me to decide between
                                        yourself and Mr. Blodgett as to the correct English
                                        rendering of the Latin sentence "De
                                            mortuis nil nisi bonum," allow me to say
                                        that your free translation is a good one, if not very
                                        literal or elegant. As to Mr. Blodgett's, if the
                                        man is sincere, he is certainly crazy or wofully illiterate;
                                        no doubt the latter.
                                    "Very respectfully,
                                        "W, "Prof.
                                                Languages, Wabash College."
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    Blodgett walked away from the school house into the dusky June woods. He knew
                        that it was useless to contend against the dictum of a college professor.
                        His friends knew so too, so they turned to rend him. He was dethroned and
                        discrowned forever. He was boarding at  my
                        father's then, and I can never forget the haggard, wistful look his
                        face wore when he came in that evening. I have since learned that he went
                        straight from the scene of his disgrace to Miss Holland, whom he found
                        inclined to laugh at him. The next week he collected what was due him and
                        left for parts unknown.
                    I was over at parson Holland's, playing with his boys.
                    The game was mumble peg.
                    I had been rooting a peg out of the ground and my face was very dirty. We
                        were under a cherry tree by a private hedge. Presently Miss Holland came out
                        and began, girl-like, to pluck and eat the half ripe cherries. The wind
                        rustled her white dress and lifted the gold floss of her wonderful hair. The
                        birds chattered and sang all round us; the white clouds lingered overhead
                        like puffs of steam vanishing against the splendid blue of the sky. The
                        fragrance of leaf and fruit and bloom was heavy on the air. The girl in
                        white, the quiet glory of the day, the murmur of the unsteady wind stream
                        flowing among the dark leaves of the orchard and hedge, the charm of the
                        temperature, and over all, the delicious sound of running water from the
                        brook hard by, all  harmonized, and in a
                        tender childish mood I quit the game and lolled at full length on the
                        ground, watching the fascinating face of the young lady as she drifted about
                        the pleasant places of the orchard. Suddenly I saw her fix her eyes in a
                        surprised way in a certain direction. I looked to see what had startled her,
                        and there, half leaning over the hedge, stood Blodgett.
                    His face was ghastly in its pallor, and deep furrows ran down his jaws. His
                        gray eyes had in them a look of longing blended with a sort of stern
                        despair. It was only for a moment that his powerful frame toppled above the
                        hedge, but he is indelibly pictured in my memory just as he then appeared.
                    "Good-bye, Miss Holland, good-bye."
                    How dismally hollow his voice sounded! Ah! it was pitiful. I neither saw nor
                        heard of him after that. Years have passed since then. Blodgett is, likely,
                        in his grave, but I never think of him without a sigh.
                    Yesterday I was in the old neighborhood, and, to my surprise, learned that
                        the old log school house was still standing. So I set out alone to visit it.
                        I found it rotten and shaky, serving as a sort of barn in which a farmer
                        stows his oats, straw and corn fodder. The genius  of learning has long since flown to finer quarters. The great
                        old chimney had been torn down or had fallen, the broad boards of the roof,
                        held on by weight poles, were deeply covered with moss and mould, and over
                        the whole edifice hung a glooma mist of decay.
                    I leaned upon a worm fence hard by and gazed through the long vacant side
                        window, underneath which our writing shelf used to be, sorrowfully dallying
                        with memory; not altogether sorrowfully either, for the glad faces of
                        children that used to romp with me on the old play ground floated across my
                        memory, clothed in the charming haze of distance, and encircled by the halo
                        of tender affections. The wind sang as of old, and the bird songs had not
                        changed a jot. Slowly my whole being crept back to the past. The wonders of
                        our progress were all forgotten. And then from within the old school room
                        came a well remembered voice, with a certain nasal twang, repeating slowly
                        and sternly the words:
                    "Arma virumque cano;" then there came a
                        chime of silver tones"School is out!School is out!" And I
                        started, to find that I was all alone by the rotting but blessed old throne
                        and palace of the pedagogue.
                
                
                
                    AN IDYL OF THE ROD.
                    IT was as pretty a country cottage as is to be found, even
                        now, in all the Wabash Valley, situated on a prominent bluff, overlooking
                        the broad stretches of bottom land, and giving a fine view of the wide
                        winding river. The windows and doors of this cottage were draped in vines,
                        among which the morning glory and the honeysuckle were the most luxuriant;
                        while on each side of the gravelled walk, that led from the front portico to
                        the dooryard gate, grew clusters of pinks, sweet-williams and larkspurs. The
                        house was painted white, and had green window shuttersold fashioned, to be
                        sure, but cosy, homelike and tasty withal. Everything pertaining to and
                        surrounding the place had an air of methodical neatness, that betokened
                        great care and scrupulous order on the part of the inmates.
                    About the hour of six on a Monday morning, in the month of May, a fine,
                        hearty, intelligent looking lad of twelve years walked  slowly up the path which led from the old orchard to the
                        house. He was dressed in loose trowsers of bottle green jeans, a jacket of
                        the same, heavy boots and a well worn wool hat. The boy's shoulders
                        stooped a little, and a slight hump discovered itself at the upper portion
                        of his back. His face was strikingly handsome, being fair, bright,
                        healthful, and marked with signs of great precocity of intellect, albeit it
                        wore just now an indescribable, faintly visible shade, as of innocent
                        perplexity, or, possibly, grief. His mind was evidently not at ease, but the
                        varying shadows that chased each other across the mild depths of his clear,
                        vivacious eyes would have stumped a physiognomist. Between a laugh and a
                        cry, but more like a cry; between defiance ani utter shame, but more like
                        the latter; his cheeks and lips took on every shade of pallor and of flush.
                        He shrugged his shoulders as he moved along, and cast rapid glances in every
                        direction, as if afraid of being seen. "Whippoo-tee,
                        tippoo-tee-tee-e!" sang a great, cardinal red bird in the apple
                        tree over his head. He flung a stone at the bird with terrible energy, but
                        missed it.
                    The mistress of the cottage was at this time in the kitchen preparing for the
                        week's washing,  for do not all good
                        Hoosier housewives wash on Monday? She was a middle aged, stoutly built,
                        healthy matron, sandy haired, slightly freckled, blue eyed and quick in her
                        movements. Usually smiling and happy, it was painful to see how she
                        struggled now to master the emotions of great grief and sadness that
                        constantly arose in her bosom, like spectres that would not be driven away.
                    A bright eyed, golden haired lass of sixteen was in the breakfast room
                        washing the dishes and singing occasional snatches from a mournful ditty. It
                        was sad, indeed, to see a cloud of sorrow on a face so fresh and sweet.
                    Mr. Coulter, the head of the family, and owner of the cottage and its lands,
                        stood near the centre of the sitting room with his hands crossed behind him,
                        gazing fixedly and sadly on the picture of a sweet child holding a white
                        kitten in its lap, which picture hung on the wall over against the broad
                        fire-place. A look of sorrow betrayed itself even in the dark, stern visage
                        of the man. He drew down his shaggy eyebrows and occasionally pulled his
                        grizzled moustache into his mouth and chewed it fiercely. Evidently he was
                        chafing under his grief.
                    The cottage windows were wide open, as is  the
                        western custom in fine weather, and the fragrance of spice wood and
                        sassafras floated in on the flood tide of pleasant air, while from the big
                        old locust tree down by the fence fell the twittering prelude to a
                        finch's song. A green line of willows and a thin, pendulous stratum
                        of fog marked the way of the river, plainly visible from the west window,
                        and through the white haze flocks of teal and wood ducks cut swiftly in
                        their downward flight to the water. A golden flicker sang and hammered on
                        the gate-post the while he eyed a sparrow-hawk that wheeled and screamed
                        high over head. The dew was like little mirrors in the grass.
                    The lad entered the kitchen and said to his mother, in a voice full of
                        tenderness, though barely audible:
                    "Mammy, where's pap?"
                    "In the front room, Billy," replied the matron solemnly,
                        quaveringly.
                    Passing into the breakfast room, Billy looked at his sister and a flash of
                        sympathetic sorrow played back and forth from the eyes of one to those of
                        the other; then he went straight into the sitting room and handed something
                        to Mr. Coulter. It was a moment of silence and suspense. Out in the orchard
                        the cherry and  apple blooms were falling like
                        pink and white snow.
                    The man looked down at his boy sadly, sorrowfully, regretfully. He drew his
                        face into a stern frown. The lad looked up into his father's eyes
                        timidly, ruefully, strangely. It was a living tableau no artist could
                        reproduce. It was the moment before a crisis.
                    "Billy," said the father gravely, "I took your
                        mother and sister to church yesterday."
                    "Yes, sir," said Billy.
                    "And left you to see to things," continued the man.
                    "Yes, sir," replied the boy, gazing through the window at
                        the flicker as it hitched down the gate-post and finally dropped into the
                        grass with a shrill chirp.
                    "And you didn't water them pigs!"
                    "O-o-o! Oh, sir! Geeroody! O me! ouch! lawsy! lawsy! mercy
                        me!"
                    The slender scion of an apple tree, in the hand of Mr. Coulter, rose and
                        fell, cutting the air like a rapier, and up from the jacket of the lad, like
                        incense from an altar, rose a cloud of dust mingled with the nap of jeans.
                        Down in the young clover of the meadow the larks and sparrows sang cheerily;
                        the gnats and flies danced up and down in the sunshine, the fresh  soft young leaves of the vines rustled like
                        satin, and all was merry indeed!
                    Billy's eyes were turned upward to the face of his father in
                        appealing agony; but still the switch, with a sharp hiss, cut the air,
                        falling steadily and mercilessly on his shoulders.
                    All along the green banks of the river the willows shook their shining
                        fingers at the lifting fog, and the voices of children going by to the
                        distant school smote the sweet May wind.
                    "Whippee! Whippee-tippee-tee!" sang the cardinal bird.
                    "O pap! ouch! O-o-o! I'll not forget to water the pigs no
                        more!"
                    "S'pect you won't, neither!" said the
                        man.
                    The wind, by a sudden puff, lifted into the room a shower of white bloom
                        petals from a sweet apple tree, letting them fall gracefully upon the
                        patchwork carpet, the while a ploughman whistled plaintively in a distant
                        field.
                    "Crackee! O pap! ouch! O-o-o! You're a killin'
                        me!"
                    "Shet your mouth 'r I'll split ye to the backbone
                        in a second! Show ye how to run off fishin' with Ed Jones and
                        neglect them pigs! Take every striffin of hide off 'n ye!"
                    How many delightful places in the woods, how many cool spots beside the
                        murmuring  river, would have been more
                        pleasant to Billy than the place he just then occupied! He would have
                        swapped hides with the very pigs he had forgot to water.
                    "O, land! O, me! Geeroody me!" yelled the lad.
                    "Them poor pigs!" rejoined the father.
                    Still the dust rose and danced in the level jet of sunlight that fell athwart
                        the room from the east window, and the hens out at the barn cackled and sang
                        for joy over new laid eggs stowed away in cosy places.
                    At one time during the falling of the rod the girl quit washing the dishes,
                        and thrusting her head into the kitchen said, in a subdued tone:
                    "My land! Mammy, ain't Bill a gittin' an awful one
                        this load o' poles?"
                    "You're moughty right!" responded the matron,
                        solemnly.
                    Along toward the last Mr. Coulter tip-toed at every stroke. The switch
                        actually screamed through the air. Billy danced and bawled and made all
                        manner of serio-comic faces and contortions.
                    "Now go, sir," cried the man, finally tossing the frizzled
                        stump of the switch out through the window. "Go now, and next time
                        I'll be bouud you water them pigs!"
                    
                    And, while the finch poured a cataract of melody from the locust tree, Billy
                        went.
                    Poor boy! that was a terrible thrashing, and to make it worse, it had been
                        promised to him. on the evening before, so that he had been dreading it and
                        shivering over it all night!
                    Now, as he walked through the breakfast room, his sister looked at him in a
                        commiserating way, but on passing through the kitchen he could not catch the
                        eye of his mother.
                    Finally he stood in the free open air in front of the saddle closet. It was
                        just then that a speckled rooster on the barn yard fence flapped his wings
                        and crowed lustily. A turkey cock was strutting on the grass by the old
                        cherry tree.
                    Billy opened the door of the closet. "A boy's will is the
                        wind's will, and the thoughts of youth are long, long
                        thoughts." Billy peeped into the saddle closet and then cast a
                        glance around him, as if to see if any one was near.
                    At length, during a pleasant lull in the morning wind, and while the low,
                        tenderly mellow flowing of the river was distinctly audible, and the song of
                        the finch increased in volume, and the bleating of new born lambs in the
                        meadow died in fluttering echoes under the barn, and while the fragrance of
                        apple  blooms grew fainter, and while the sun,
                        now naming just a little above the eastern horizon, launched a shower of
                        yellow splendors over him from head to foot, he took from under his jacket
                        behind a doubled sheep skin with the wool on, which, with an ineffable
                        smile, he tossed into the closet. Then, as the yellow flicker rose rapidly
                        from the grass, Billy walked off, whistling the air of that once popular
                        ballad
                    
                        "O give me back my fifteen cents,
                        And give me back my money," &c.
                    
                
            
        
    
