
     ----CITATION---- 
        Thompson, Maurice, 1844-1901. Milly: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2389
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                
                    "Wonder et John haint a comin', Pap;" Page 8.
                
                
            
            
            
                
                    MILLY:
                    At Love's Extremes A
                        Romance of the Southland 
                
                
                    By
                    MAURICE THOMPSON Author of "Alice of Old
                    Vincennes"
                ILLUSTRATED
                
                    New York City Printed and Bound for the New
                        Amsterdam Book Company,
                    Anno Domini Mcmi
                
            
            
            
                Copyright 1901 by New Amsterdam Book Company
                
                    Milly: At Love's Extremes
                
            
            
            
                CONTENTS.
                
                    CHAPTER I. MOUNTAIN DEW.
                        1
                        
                    CHAPTER II. MILLY.
                        15
                        
                    CHAPTER III. MR. HAWKINS NOBLE.
                        25
                        
                    CHAPTER IV. WHITE PLAYS "SEVING UP".
                        38
                        
                    CHAPTER V. SOME LIGHT TALK.
                        48
                        
                    CHAPTER VI AT THE GATE.
                        64
                        
                    CHAPTER VII AN OLD PLANTATION HOUSE.
                        77
                        
                    CHAPTER VIII. WITH DOG AND GUN.
                        93
                        
                    CHAPTER IX. LUNCHEON AL FRESCO.
                        110
                        
                    CHAPTER X. MILLY INQUIRES.
                        123
                        
                    CHAPTER XI DALLYING.
                        134
                        
                    CHAPTER XII. A BIT OF LOVE MAKING.
                        149
                        
                    CHAPTER XIII. AT THE RUIN.
                        164
                        
                    CHAPTER XIV. A WHISPER IN THE CABIN.
                        180
                        
                    CHAPTER XV. A DISCLOSURE.
                        189
                        
                    CHAPTER XVI. CONVALESCENT.
                        202
                        
                    
                    CHAPTER XVII. DREAMS AND PLANS.
                        217
                        
                    CHAPTER XVIII. REALITIES.
                        229
                        
                    CHAPTER XIX. WHITHER.
                        250
                        
                    CHAPTER XX. AFTER ALL.
                        260
                        
                
            
        
        
            
            
                MILLY
                AT LOVE'S EXTREMES
                
                    CHAPTER I.
                    MOUNTAIN DEW.
                    
                        A MAN stood on the jutting shoulder of a mountain
                        overlooking a long, narrow valley, whose scattering houses and irregular
                        farm-plats, seen through the clear air of that high region, appeared
                        scarcely a gunshot distant, when in fact they were miles away. It was early
                        morning; the sun had barely cleared the highest peaks in the east, and the
                        landscape, albeit a mid-winter one, was wonderfully rich in colors. On the
                        oak trees the leaves still clung in heavy brown, green and russet masses;
                        the hickory forests, though leafless, made bits of tender gray along the
                        lower valley-slopes, whilst high up toward the mountain tops, the billowy
                        wilderness of pines, cedars and chestnut trees added their variegated
                        patch-work that gradually rose and shaded off into the blue of distance. In
                        some places where storms, or the needs of man, had removed the oak woods, a
                        dense, frondous mass of  young pines had leaped
                        up with a greenness full of a soft yellow glow. The sunshine and the wind of
                        the South were flowing over this scene, and there were fragrant odors and
                        balsamic pungency in every wave.
                    The man, a tall, shapely fellow, was a young Englishman who had lately come
                        to the iron and coal region of Alabama to take charge of extensive
                        manufacturing and mining interests belonging to his family. Just at present,
                        with a true English faith in the value of outdoor sports, he was hunting
                        wild turkeys, or, for that matter, whatever other wild game might chance to
                        let him get within gun-shot of it. He had left his hotel at Birmingham with
                        the first hint of dawn, and had steadily tramped over hills and mountain
                        spurs and through wild ravines and beautiful glades, without a sight of fur
                        or feather. Now he stood on this airy height, flushed with his healthful
                        exercise, a little disappointed and annoyed. But the mountain air of the
                        South has in it a tenderly exhilarating influence which affects the
                        imagination and lulls one into pleasant, though often rather vague dreams.
                        No matter if Edward Moreton was an intensely practical-minded man of
                        affairs, the kind of Englishman who is willing to come to America and
                        superintend iron works and coal mines, he was, nevertheless, not wholly
                        impervious to the poetrythe lulling magnetism of the climate and the scene.
                        For a while he leaned on his gun, a long, heavy double-barreled piece; then
                        he took from his  pocket a cigarette and match,
                        seated himself on an old gray stone and began smoking. In the midst of the
                        valley below, ran a rivulet, winding through the woods with a silvery
                        shimmer, and out across the farms and past one little mill, on into a deep
                        gorge of the stony hills.
                    Moreton had not found his surroundings in Birmingham quite satisfactory,
                        notwithstanding the fact that he had fallen in love, after the old time
                        fervid fashion, with a fair young Northern girl living there. The little
                        mining town, cramped between the hills, full of rough folk, raw and new,
                        could not be very attractive to a man who, no matter how practical and
                        matter of fact in his disposition, had studied art and who still nursed the
                        artist's dreams. As he sat there with his blue-gray eyes slowly
                        sweeping the valley, he was not as blithelooking as a model sportsman should
                        be. His dog, a small brown spaniel, sat down at his feet and eyed him
                        lazily. No sound, save the rustle of the wind in the trees and a dull
                        distant tapping of a woodpecker, was disturbing the broad silence of the
                        forest. The sky was intensely blue. Suddenly a short puff of dampness came
                        from the southwest, followed by a growl of thunder, a thing not usual in
                        winter, even in that latitude. Moreton arose and saw a heavy line of black
                        cloud overhanging some conical peaks far away on the southwestern horizon.
                    "Come Nat," he said to his dog, "we must be going
                             back; a nasty squall is coming. We shall
                        get our jackets wet."
                    Nat answered with divers canine antics and the two turned away from the
                        valley, the man walking with long firm strides and the dog trotting
                        perfunctorily at his side. Their way led among the flanking spurs and
                        foot-hills of the range, now over great fragmentary bowlders, now through
                        yawning clefts and down winding defiles, sometimes on bare ridges of shale,
                        anon under the dark odorous brushes of the pines. The cloud came after them,
                        sending in advance its gusts of moist, fragrant air. A vast wing reached up
                        to the zenith and a few big drops of rain pattered down. A morning shower in
                        the mountains comes at race-horse speed. The swiftest birds are caught by
                        it. A flock of noisy crows went flapping across the valley, striving in vain
                        to outstrip the slanting flood that fell with a broad, washing roar from
                        that rushing cloud.
                    "We are in for a soaking, Nat," grumbled Moreton, as he
                        plucked up the collar of his shooting jacket; "a deuced bad outcome
                        for our first day's shooting in America!"
                    Nat's tail was down and so were his ears. He relished the signs of
                        the weather no more than did his stalwart master. A chilliness was creeping
                        into the air, foretelling how disagreeable the rain was sure to be. The very
                        trees shivered as the sunshine was shut off by the overlapping cloud.
                    
                    It was just as the storm was about to break that certain sharp cries peculiar
                        to the wild turkey reached the quick ears of sportsman and dog. The man
                        stopped short and cocked his gun, as the spaniel darted away to a short
                        distance and then began creeping through the low underbrush, as a setter
                        does when about to come to a point. In the next instant four large birds
                        were flushed, breaking from cover at about forty yards, their wings making
                        the woods resound with their loud flapping. Almost at the same moment, the
                        "bangpang!" of Moreton's gun, fired right and
                        left, went echoing across the valley and battling amongst the hills. A cock
                        and hen were stopped short and fell heavily. The dog sprang forward to lead
                        his master to the game, and then came a blinding downgush of rain with a
                        roar like that of a cyclone.
                    Moreton with great difficulty got the birds, and, after tying them together
                        by the feet, slung them across his shoulder. This additional load and the
                        hindering force of the rain made his further progress quite laborious. Nat
                        resumed his drooping, mechanical jog-trot at his master's side. The
                        young man leaned over and almost shut his eyes as he pressed on, catching
                        quick breaths as the cold streams trickled down his back. His shooting
                        jacket and trowsers were meant to be impervious to water, but the chilling
                        liquid was dashed by the force of the wind against his neck and thence found
                        its way down to his heels. He  did not hesitate,
                        under such stress of ill luck, to rush boldly against the door of a low,
                        rambling mountain cabin and demand admission. His knock on the rough planks
                        was heard by the inmates of the place, despite the heavy roar of the rain,
                        and the response was immediate.
                    "Kem in, kem in," spoke a rather pleasing voice, in the
                        peculiar accent and intonation of the mountaineers of the region, as the
                        door was opened, letting the hunter and his dog in, along with a dash of
                        slanting rain. "Le' me take them birds, strenger,
                        an' ye jest git ther' by the fire. Hit's purty
                        outdacious rainy all of a suddent; purty near drownd a feller." The
                        speaker was a slender, almost slight, man, near fifty years old,
                        flaxen-haired, thin-faced, with a sharp nose and a straggling beard, still
                        lighter than his hair. He took the brace of birds off Moreton's
                        shoulder and threw them aside on the clean white floor.
                        "I'll jest put yer gun up fur ye," he continued,
                        taking the weapon and leaning it against the wall in a corner of the room.
                        Then he quickly fetched a chair. "Set down an' mek yerself
                        at home, I'll punch up the fire, hit's got sorty low;
                        I'll git some light'ood knots."
                    Moreton found himself in a place whose features at once interested him.
                        Glancing around the room he saw two low beds, a few plain split-bottomed
                        chairs, an old queer "bureau," or chest of drawers, with
                        glass knobs, some rude shelves with ironstone dishes on  them, a long flint-lock rifle, hanging in buck-horn forks over
                        the door, one of which forks also held a coonskin bullet-pouch and curiously
                        carved powder-horn. The fire-place before which he sat was broad and deep,
                        roughly lined with jagged stones picturesquely black with fleecy
                        accumulations of soot from pine smoke; it was crossed by a heavy charred
                        wooden crane and on its broad jambs rested a curious collection of cobpipes,
                        clay-pipes, wooden pipes and soft-stone pipes, along with sundry ragged
                        twists of brown home-raised tobacco. There was a low, wide window on one
                        side of the room, and beside it Moreton's eyes rested for a moment
                        on a slim girl's form in a half-cowering position. She was so
                        turned from him that he could see no more of her face than a rounded line of
                        one cheek. There was a heavy brush of long, bright, yellowish flaxen hair, a
                        very delicate ear and a glimpse of a brown throat and neck. One hand, rather
                        large but shapely, lay along her lap, on the scant folds of a homespun
                        cotton dress, the skirt of which could not quite hide her coarsely-shod
                        feet. There was something curiously striking in this crumpled little figure
                        that held Moreton's gaze for a time. Through an open door that gave
                        into a smaller room, the intermittent hum of a spinning-wheel made itself
                        heard, distinct from the clash and swash of the storm, and a tall angular
                        woman walked back and forth, drawing out and reeling up the coarse thread
                        she was twisting.  The man had soon fetched wood
                        and pine knots for the fire, and presently a liberal flame wavered up to the
                        mouth of the great old chimney. He turned to Moreton and said:
                    "Lay off yer coat, strenger, an' git yer shirt dry;
                        hit's outdacious onagreeable fur to hev on a wet shirt."
                    Moreton smiled pleasantly.
                    "Thank you, I will," he said, rising and stripping off the
                        stiff jacket. "You are very kind. I am covering your floor with
                        water."
                    "Shaw, that's nothin'," replied the man,
                        in a tone of gentle contempt; "ef ye'd see hit sometimes
                        when I come in ye mought talk. Them little puddles haint nothin'
                        'tall. The Colonel an' me jest floods the whole house when
                        we gits wet."
                    "Wonder ef John haint a comin', Pap?"
                    This sudden inquiry came in a sweet, half-shy voice from the girl at the
                        window.
                    "She calls him John, I calls him Colonel," explained the
                        man. Then turning to answer the question:
                    "Oh, ther's no 'countin' fur him;
                        he's as like to stay out all day and night es any way; hit
                        don't make no differ'nce 'bout rain es to him, do
                        it, Milly?"
                    The girl had turned her face toward the man when she spoke, but now she
                        averted it again, a little flush gathering on the brown cheek.
                    "He don't mind no weather, strenger, the Colonel  don't, rain er sunshine hit's
                        all the same to him, hain't hit, Milly?" continued the
                        host.
                    "I wush he'd come on back home," exclaimed the
                        girl, "that's what I wush." Moreton had turned
                        his back to the fire. He was astride of the chair and the steam was rising
                        vigorously from his wet garments. Out of the corners of his eyes he kept
                        glancing at that lithe, plump little figure by the window. He had the taste
                        of an artist, and here was a model for brush or chisel to imitate. He was a
                        genuine man, too, and here was a bit of rare feminine beauty, no matter how
                        coarsely clad or how hopelessly uncultured. She had the grace of outline
                        common to wild things, and there was that half-pathetic, half-glad beam in
                        her face that appeals to a man's love of the innocent and his pity
                        of the weak. Her head was small and well-poised above plump shoulders, her
                        bust was full, yet girlish, giving just a hint of that early ripeness so
                        common in southern countries, and her waist and limbs were perfect. At rare
                        intervals one sees such a girl among the hardy peasants of most mountain
                        regions, but not so often in America as elsewhere.
                    "Do ye ever smoke a pipe, stranger?" inquired the host,
                        offering Moreton a cob pipe and a twist of tobacco.
                    "Thank you, yes, I will take some of your tobacco; I have a
                        pipe," said the young man, drawing from his vest pocket a small
                        meerschaum, old and dark as  mahogany. He had
                        heard of the excellence of this mountain home-grown tobacco.
                    "Hit air purty good, ef I do say hit myself. Most of 'em
                        roun' here's glad to git Tom White's
                        'backer to chaw an' smoke, hain't they,
                        Milly?" Mr. White thus introduced himself and his tobacco at the
                        same time.
                    At this point Mrs. White quit her wheel and came into the room. She spoke to
                        Moreton pleasantly, as if she had long known him, smiling cordially.
                    "Ef you menfolks don't care, I'll jest jine ye for
                        a whiff er two," she said, going to the chimney-jamb and selecting
                        a pipe.
                    They formed a strange group around that cabin fire. Moreton felt the
                        democratic force of the situation and enjoyed it to the full.
                    "Hain't ye goin' to have a hand in this here
                        gineral smoke, Milly?" said Mr. White, chuckling jocosely and
                        looking, under comically-drawn eyebrows, at the girl.
                    "Now, Pap, you know I don't smoke at all," she
                        quickly answered, getting up and leaving the room. Her movement was as light
                        and nimble as that of a hare.
                    "Course she don't smoke, ye know," said White to
                        Moreton, confidentially lowering his voice; "I wus jest a
                        yankin' at her fur greens; she knows when I'm a
                        greenin' of her, an' she gits tiffy at me in a minute.
                        She's es sharp es a darnin'-needle, Milly is."
                    "Thomas, ye ortn't ter plague Milly so much, ye'll
                             spile her temper. Milly's a
                        mighty good gal," said Mrs. White in a tone half entreaty and half
                        command. It was easy to see that Mrs. White ruled the cabin. After a moment
                        of silence, "She's oneasy 'bout the Colonel, now,
                        but then hit's no use, he's all right, rain er
                        shine," responded the man.
                    Moreton, whose eyes furtively followed the girl as she left the room, saw
                        that the apartment into which she passed was neatly carpeted and furnished
                        with wellworn easy-chairs, a table and a desk. Between the opening and
                        closing of the door he caught sight, also, of long shelves of books and some
                        pictures. The room appeared quite large and arranged as if for a
                        gentleman's study. The contrast between its almost elegant
                        appointments and the arid blankness of the one in which Moreton sat was so
                        pronounced that, despite his patrician self-control, a wave of surprise
                        passed over his face. The quick eyes of the mountaineer saw this.
                    "That there air the Colonel's part of the house,"
                        he hastily said, a trace of apology and disclaimer in his voice;
                        "hit jest suits him. He's got a outdacious sight
                        o'larnin' an' plenty o' money. He kin
                        buy whatever he wants."
                    "Yes," said Mrs. White, rather sharply,
                        "an' jest es like es not he's right now a
                        stan'in' under some tree er rock a waitin' fur
                        the rain to quit an' a readin' of a book. Seems powerful
                        quare to me."
                    Moreton was almost tempted to ask questions, so 
                        quick an interest had been generated by this gossip about the Colonel.
                        Certainly this was a strange home for a man of wealth and education.
                        Possibly the Colonel was some sport-loving gentleman from New Orleans,
                        Mobile or Montgomery, who had taken these apartments in the cabin as a sort
                        of shooting-box, he thought, for he had heard much of the peculiarities and
                        extravagances of rich Southerners. But his mental discussion of this subject
                        was cut short by a sudden movement on the part of White, who sprang to his
                        feet and elevated his hands.
                    "Well, hit's jest too outdacious, Sarah," he
                        cried, as if utterly chagrined; "jest to think, the strenger kem in
                        wet an' soaked an' haint hed no liquor!"
                    "'Bout like sech as we'ns to furgit what
                        we're 'bout," responded Mrs. White;
                        "ye'll find the dim'jon under the tother bed
                        behind the sack o' 'taters."
                    White dived under the bed in question and drew forth a large earthen bottle.
                    "Hit air peach liquor," he said, advancing upon Moreton;
                        "the best they air in these parts. Ye must parding us, strenger,
                        fur we clean furgot hit."
                    Mrs. White fetched a large, heavy tumbler and handed it to Moreton.
                    "Le' me pour fur ye, stranger," said White,
                        uncorking the bottle. "Ye'll find 'at hit air
                        liquor wo'th a-drinkin'. Hit ain't pizened with
                        no revenue postage, ye may set thet down solid."
                    
                    Moreton, with no light inward protest, submitted his lips to the proffered
                        glass. His English taste for excellent drinks was never more deliciously
                        surprised. What began as a formal, carefully guarded sip, crept on into a
                        series of slow quaffs, ending in a final hearty gulp. White grinned
                        delightedly.
                    "Haint hit good, strenger? Don't hit hev the outdaciousest
                        way o' gittin' to the very marrer of a feller's
                        neck, of any liquor ye ever tasted? Ef hit don't git
                        ther', none don't. The Colonel sez hit's the best
                        liquor 'at he ever tasted! an' he's traveled, he hes. He's been in furren parts, Rome an' France
                        an' them air places."
                    Moreton was quick to acknowledge that the brandy was surpassingly fine. It
                        had the bouquet of old wine, the body of cognac and the mellow fire of
                        Scotch whisky, along with a faint trace of peach kernels. He thought of a
                        certain London club in which he would like to introduce this Sand Mountain
                        nectar.
                    White partook sparingly of the precious beverage, and then carefully replaced
                        the bottle in its hidingplace under the bed.
                    Meantime the heavy throbs of wind and rain shook the cabin to its foundation.
                    When the mountaineer returned to his chair by the fire, Moreton inquired of
                        him where the brandy was made.
                    "Oh, I dunno jest wher' hit air made, nohow. We  calls hit the mounting jew," said
                        White, glancing furtively at his wife. By "jew" he meant
                        dew. The peach brandy made in the sly little stills, scattered among the
                        mountains from North Carolina to Alabama, is sometimes locally called
                        mountain dew, or rather, "mounting jew." It is not the
                        drink of drunkards. In fact the mountaineers, with now and then an
                        exception, are remarkably temperate in the matter of tippling; but the jug
                        of "jew" is the special implement of their
                    hospitality.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER II.
                    MILLY.
                    
                        THAT was a rain long to be remembered by the dwellers in
                        the Sand Mountain country. The thunder with which the storm had been
                        heralded soon ceased, and the masses of black clouds spread themselves wide,
                        softening into a smooth, leaden-colored sheet from horizon to horizon,
                        whilst the rain, driven by a throbbing wind, trailed in a wavering flood
                        over the rugged landscape. Every ravine and rocky gully became a torrent of
                        muddy water. The noises of the storm united into a wide bellowing that
                        throbbed heavily around the house whose friendly shelter Moreton was but too
                        glad to retain.
                    The inmates of the place were not over-talkative, sitting for most of the
                        time listening with rather solemn attention to the heavy beating of the wind
                        and rain.
                    After an hour had passed and Moreton's clothes had dried somewhat,
                        he was glad to accept his host's invitation to go into the
                        Colonel's part of the house. The glimpse he had caught of this
                        sumptuous-looking roomsumptuous as compared with the rest of the uncouth,
                             scantily furnished househad set him to
                        wondering what it could mean. As he passed through the low door-way the girl
                        sprang up from a stool in front of an easel that stood near the middle of
                        the floor. Her face was burning with the flush of one surprised in an act of
                        the most furtive nature. Moreton paused, feeling with quick certainty how
                        deeply he was embarrassing her. She turned her large eyes on him with a
                        startled, momentary stare, and letting fall a charcoal pencil, fairly ran
                        out of the room, carrying with her what appeared to be a small block of
                        drawing paper. On the easel was an unfinished but powerful sketch of a large
                        pointer dog. The room was littered with evidences of artistic and literary
                        labor and recreation. The walls were lined with books. In the corners stood
                        guns, fishing rods and other implements of sport by flood and field. On a
                        table was a fine microscope, a tiny crucible and a blow-pipe. A pair of
                        slippers sat on the broad hearth, and a sober-looking dressing-gown lay
                        across a chair. Evidently the Colonel was a man who knew how to take his
                        ease in his inn.
                    Moreton passed along by the book-shelves, glancing at the titles of the
                        books, finding side by side the works of Stuart Mill and the poems of Andre
                        Chenier, the novels of George Eliot and the rhymes of Jasmin the Troubadour,
                        volumes of La Place, Goethe and Newton set among the stories of Thomas Hardy
                        and William Black, whilst the poems of Longfellow and Tennyson  and Keats were shoulder to shoulder with the
                        latest fictions of Zola and Daudet. Copies of magazines and weekly literary
                        and art journals were scattered promiscuously about in the room.
                    "The Colonel he air a outdacious quare man," said White,
                        who had followed Moreton into the room, "but what he don't
                        know hit ain't wo'th a knowin', though I
                        can't jest see what good hit's a doin' of him.
                        S'pose hit's fun for 'im, mebbe, to set here a
                        drawin' of picters an' a writin' an' a
                        paintin' an' all that air sort o'
                        doin's. But then ef he wants to, an' he pays me for the
                        use o' my house, hit's all proper I s'pect. Then
                        he's all over a gentleman, the Colonel air, a perfect gentleman,
                        with a heart es big es a fodder-stack."
                    "Does the Colonel make this his permanent home?" inquired
                        Moreton, taking up a volume bound in old black leather, and glancing at its
                        title page, on a space of which was written in a rather small but decidedly
                        masculine hand, the name: John Mercer Reynolds.
                    "Fur more'n six years he's been right here
                        constant, 'ceptin' when he'd go off for a while
                        seein' to 'is business an' sich. Thet's
                        'is name ther' wher' yer a readin' in
                        the book. I can't read no writin', but I know 'at
                        hit's 'is name, though; Colonel John M. Reynolds, haint
                        hit?"
                    Moreton made no reply; he was looking at the name in a musing way, his brows
                        slightly contracted. Presently he turned to White and said:
                    
                    "Where is Mr. Reynolds?"
                    "The Colonel he went out a huntin' this mornin'
                        an' he haint come back yet. He'll be in 'fore
                        long, a drippin' like a ash-hopper an' es wet es a
                        swamp," answered White. Then, after a moment's pause he
                        looked quizzically at Moreton and added:
                    "Ye don't hev any' quaintance of the Colonel, hev
                        ye?"
                    "I am not sure. The name is that of a friend of mine whom I have not
                        seen for years. Is he tall and dark with deep gray eyes and"
                    "Yes, sir, he air that kind of a man, an' he air
                        finelookin' an' handsome an' hes ben all over
                        ever' wher' an' knows all about most
                        ever' thing an' ever' body. Yes, sir, that air
                        Colonel he air a outdacious fine man."
                    "Yes, yes, he is, no doubt," Moreton responded absently,
                        really quite unaware of what he was saying. His memory was busy with things
                        of the past. Was it possible that he had thus again accidentally stumbled
                        upon Reynolds? Of all the men he ever had met he liked Reynolds best. The
                        very name had its fascination, just as something in the man himself had its
                        mysterious charm, disconnected from any social, moral or intellectual
                        attractiveness.
                    "Where did Mr. Reynolds come from when he came here?" he
                        demanded, coming suddenly and wholly back to himself and looking at White
                        who had begun to move away.
                    
                    "The Colonel he kem f'mkem f'mf'mI
                        couldn't say e'zactly wher' the Colonel kem
                        f'm; but som'ers in furren parts, I'm sartaing of
                        thet."
                    "Six years ago, I think you told me."
                    "Yes, a leetle the rise of six. The Colonel he kem yer in
                        Septem'er."
                    "Sings well, the Colonel, does he?"
                    "Sing! dern, but ye orter heer 'im, strenger. He ken beat a
                        meth'dis' nigger all to striffins. He air a singer for ter
                        mek yer hair stan', the Colonel air."
                    "Plays superbly on the guitar?"
                    "On the git-tar? Yer may say he does, strenger. When he plays onto
                        the git-tar, I calls hit a pickin' onto the git ther', and
                        the Colonel he ken git ther' with the bes' chunes
                        'at ever split the wind, dead sartaing."
                    White's sallow face betrayed, as he finished speaking, a perfect
                        faith in the legitimacy of his humor, and Moreton felt bound to laugh.
                    At this point the girl came shyly to the door and said:
                    "Pap, dinner air ready."
                    Moreton could not refrain from looking boldly, even searchingly, into that
                        sweet, innocent, half-vacant face. He felt an obscure pang enter his breast,
                        as if in some way her pathetic, hopeless prettiness accused him. She was
                        probably sixteen, and, though rather slight, remarkably well-formed and
                        graceful. Her scant, coarse drapery served to indicate more than to hide her
                             body's curves and the outlines of
                        her supple limbs. It was her face, however, that had in it the power of
                        leaving in Moreton's memory a haunting, elusive impression that
                        would not go out. She did not take a seat with her parents and their guest
                        at the table, but filled the place of serving maid, passing silently behind
                        their chairs, offering the dishes of ill-cooked coarse food and anticipating
                        with swift movements the needs of each.
                    "Ef the Colonel wus here now," said White, poising a piece
                        of fried bacon between his plate and his mouth, "ye'd
                        never git him to eat this yere kind er victuals. Nary time, sir.
                        He'd hev br'iled chicken, er squir'l,
                        an' white bread an' milk an' I don't
                        know what all. The Colonel he air high tony dinktom 'bout what he
                        chaws, le' me tell ye. He keeps a lot o' wine in
                        'is closet, 'an hit air outdacious fine liquor,
                        too."
                    Moreton, whose eyes followed Milly at every fair opportunity, saw her lean
                        over White's chair and heard her say in a low, earnest tone:
                    "Hush, Pap, John he wudn' like hit ef ye said so much
                        'bout his doin's. I wush ye'd keep still
                        'bout him anyhow."
                    It was little more than a pretense of eating with Moreton. The corn bread,
                        collards sweet potatoes and fat fried bacon, which were to be washed down
                        with bitter coffee, did not suit his English appetite. Then, too, he was so
                        busy with the thought of Reynolds and  so
                        troubled by the wistful face of this strangely beautiful mountain girl, that
                        even the choicest dinner might not have tempted him.
                    The rain held on steadily until far along in the afternoon. Reynolds did not
                        come, and when Moreton saw the clouds breaking away in the west, and heard
                        the swash of the shower slowly sinking into a desultory pattering on the
                        cabin roof, he sat down at the Colonel's desk and wrote a short
                        note as follows: 
                            
                                
                                    "MY DEAR REYNOLDS:
                                    
                                    "If I am not mistaken, I have at last found you
                                        again. If I am mistaken you will pardon my blunder. If I
                                        were perfectly sure that you are my old friend whom I lost
                                        so easily and would give so much to see, I would not go from
                                        this house without having heard your voice and held your
                                        hand. I am so sure that you are the very Reynolds to whom I
                                        owe every thing and whose friendship is the warmest spot in
                                        my life, that I am nearly on the point of staying at a
                                        venture; but the rain seems over, and I have a very long
                                        walk and shall go at once. I am at theHotel in Birmingham.
                                        Won't you come to see me at once? If you are my Reynolds you know how you will be
                                        received; if I have blundered and you are not the friend I
                                        have so long missed, you shall have the humble apologies of
                                    
                                        "EDWARD MORETON."
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    
                    When this hasty epistle was finished, Moreton addressed it and placed it on
                        the table. A few minutes later the girl came into the room. Moreton rose.
                    "Will you be kind enough," he said to her, "to
                        hand Colonel Reynolds this letter when he comes home?"
                    She looked sideways at him and blushed scarlet, but said nothing and did not
                        move from where she had stopped beside the door. A bright strand of her hair
                        had fallen forward across her shoulder and breast.
                    "I shall be greatly obliged," he continued, turning the
                        envelope about on the table with his finger. "You will be doing me
                        a great favor. Colonel Reynolds is a dear friend of mine."
                    Unconsciously he used a wheedling tone in speaking to her, as he would have
                        done in trying to coax a little child.
                    She moved one hand nervously, and a pallor encroached upon the flush in her
                        cheeks. Her sweet, strange eyes dilated with some sudden emotion. It may
                        have been mere bashfulness and the embarrassment of ignorance and timidity.
                        She appeared so helpless, so prettily forlorn, so innocent and sweet, and
                        yet she seemed so vulgar, uncouth and hopelessly shallow, withal. Moreton,
                        despite himself, felt the infection of her timidity and shyness and became
                        silent. She stood for a time as if wavering between opposing impulses, then
                        in a sudden and breathless way she said.
                    
                    "Does John know you? Where'd ye ever see John? He never
                        told me 'bout ye." She was still glancing sideways at him
                        over her shoulder, and standing with one foot resting across the toe of the
                        other, her left elbow pressed against the wall.
                    Moreton smiled and shook his head.
                    "It was a long way off from here that I saw him. Beyond the sea,
                        across many countries. Ask him to tell you about Edward Moreton. He will
                        remember a great many things that we did. We had many adventures together.
                        He's a grand fellow."
                    "What air a grand feller? What d'ye mean by that
                        there?" she slowly asked.
                    "Oh, I mean a great deal, every thing that is worth
                        meaning," said Moreton. Then feeling that he had failed to satisfy
                        her, he added in a very gentle tone: "I mean that he is good and
                        that I like him."
                    She smiled, and a sudden pleasure flashed from her eyes; but her face quickly
                        resumed its almost stolid repose and the vague trace of helplessness and
                        pathetic innocence returned.
                    The rain was over and Moreton got ready to go just as the sun, now far down
                        the west, swung free of the scattering cloud and flamed against a space of
                        intensely blue sky above the most distant purple mountain peaks.
                    White refused to accept any pay for the shelter and food given to Moreton,
                        and, carrying his practical  mountain
                        generosity still further, he slung the brace of turkeys across his shoulder
                        and led the way for more than a mile, to put his guest into a path which was
                        the shortest route over the mountain to a highway leading into Birmingham.
                        The two men shook hands at parting on the highest swell of a heavy ridge,
                        whence they could see the little city, with its great columns of coal-smoke
                        and its shining white houses, lying far below amidst the gentle undulations
                        of the valley. A long walk yet remained for Moreton, with no companion save
                        the little spaniel; but his thoughts were of such a nature that he scarcely
                        noted how rough and tiresome was the way. The clouds were now all gone and
                        the sky, as night drew on, was filled with stars that, seen through the
                        purified air, appeared to flame and waver like the flare of sunlight on ice.
                        The temperature had fallen several degrees, giving a keen edge to the breeze
                        which was now out of the north-west; but there still arose from the pine
                        woods that resinous fragrance which is a balm for every wound that
                        occasional inclemencies of the mountain weather may give. The streams had
                        subsided as suddenly as they had risen, and all nature seemed hastening to
                        regain that tranquil equilibrium for which the southern winters are
                    noted.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER III.
                    MR. HAWKINS NOBLE.
                    
                        MORETON, the more he thought the matter over, grew surer
                        and surer of the fact that he had discovered Reynolds, his long lost friend.
                        They had been art students together in Paris, and had been companions in a
                        rather wild eastern ramble during which some quite memorable adventures had
                        befallen them. Finally they had separated, on account of a mild sort of
                        quarrel over a sweetheart, Reynolds quitting the field most mysteriously,
                        leaving Moreton free to press his suit, which at the last wholly failed. It
                        does not matter here what was the extent or color of their disagreement, but
                        it may be said that there was nothing violent or tragic in it. In fact it
                        may all be summed up in the sentence: Reynolds disappeared; and so sudden
                        and secret was his going that Moreton lost him quite as effectually as if he
                        had died and been buried. Such a disappearance has in it an element of
                        tragic mystery that burns into one's memory. Moreton really knew
                        little of Reynolds, save that he was an American and a Southerner, a
                        fascinating companion, and a genial, brave, liberal fellow. If their parting
                        had been the ordinary one, such as must come at length to  any traveling companions, perhaps a few months
                        might have sufficed to obliterate all regrets connected with it. But the
                        peculiar circumstances under which it had come about had served to fasten it
                        with a rather fiery emphasis in Moreton's memory. He remembered
                        Reynolds as a proud, peculiarly sensitive man, given to excess of sentiment,
                        an extremist, running to great lengths of self-indulgence at times, and at
                        other times a model of temperateness that bordered on utter self-denial. A
                        man with a violent conscience, prone to brood over follies and indulge
                        gloomy regret for sins about which most young men would unhesitatingly have
                        made broad jokes, but yet a man given to unlimited pleasures. In person he
                        was of noble proportions, quite a typical low-country Southerner, bearing in
                        his highbred face an air of fearlessness and obvious pride touched to a
                        degree with something that suggested recklessness. He was reckless, indeed,
                        now and again, always, however, suffering the extremest pangs of repentance
                        after each lapse into excesses.
                    It had seemed to surprise Reynolds in the last degree when he discovered that
                        Moreton had become his rival, and surprise had quickly blazed up into
                        furious anger. For a time it had appeared as if there must be a fight, but
                        before this could happen Reynolds controlled himself and the reaction came.
                        Moreton appeared to be successful, and his rival, in a fit of gloom,
                        disappeared from the scene. It is easy to understand  how Moreton would be affected by such a turn of affairs, and
                        when, a day or two after the events of the preceding chapter, Reynolds
                        appeared at the hotel in Birmingham, the meeting was, of course, a very
                        cordial one; for Moreton was in no mood to allow his friend any room to
                        doubt his sincerity. He had not prospered with his suit after
                        Reynolds' departure. Somehow he could not press it with that ardor
                        which kept his heart on fire so long as a rival was in view. It may have
                        been that the mystery of Reynolds' flight cast a damper on the
                        feelings of the young lady as well as over his own spirit. It is even
                        possible that in truth she preferred the impulsive, magnetic Southerner to
                        the rather matter-of-fact Englishman. At all events, Moreton's
                        wooing had languished with the ending of the rivalry, the young lady showing
                        a decided willingness to have done with the affair on the shortest possible
                        notice.
                    Such things may appear to conclude very easily and naturally, to the best
                        satisfaction of those concerned; but usually a sting remains with one or
                        more of the actors that time is slow to remove. Moreton had felt this sting
                        from two sources. He had lost his friend, he had lost his sweetheart. His
                        friendship had been deep and true, his passion for the girl had been strong,
                        no matter if not rooted deeper than his fancy. At one point conscience
                        griped Moreton with bitter force: he had been ungrateful to Reynolds, who
                        had not hesitated to risk his life for him in the most desperate exigency
                             of his quite eventful career. And now
                        Reynolds had added self-sacrifice to heroism.
                    So that it will be readily understood how Moreton easily fell into a state of
                        mind that rendered him restless and self-accusing. His great wish that he
                        might one day find his friend again, and in some way make reparation for the
                        injury done him, was tinged with such sentimentality as the situation would
                        naturally generate in a mind, which though quite practical and
                        well-balanced, was somewhat given to visionary fancies.
                    They sat down to a good dinner, and, with due appreciation of its qualities,
                        paused between its courses to let their conversation lightly circle around
                        the point of their past trouble, without coming quite to it. Reynolds knew
                        that Moreton was still a bachelor, he had caught this much from his
                        friend's manner and talk. It flashed through his mind that, after
                        all, he had, perhaps, done himself great wrong and Moreton no good by acting
                        up to a standard of duty recognized by few men. But it was too late to
                        consider the matter now. It was all over and the dead past must bury its
                        dead. Besides, had he not long ago dashed aside the poor bauble he had once
                        called love! The subject could not, would not be avoided, nevertheless, and
                        when it had been reached and fully talked over, both felt relieved.
                    "She is married," said Moreton, "and is living in
                        Florence. Her husband is Count somebody and she is an invalid, so I have
                        heard."
                    
                    "I give you my word, Moreton," responded Reynolds, after a
                        moment's silence, "that I am sincerely glad she is
                        married, and quite sorry that she has lost her superb health. Suppose we
                        dismiss her forever from our minds and our lives."
                    "Done!" cried Moreton almost jocularly, extending his hand.
                        "I have been deuced near proposing that for the last half hour. It
                        takes a load off my breast and a cloud off my mind. Here's to a
                        clear future, old fellow!"
                    He filled their glasses and they drank in a genial if not a jovial mood. It
                        was a light way in which to dispose of so weighty a matter as this had once
                        been considered by them; but then it is the tricksy summer breath that
                        tranquilizes the sea after the tropic storm. They were both glad to unburden
                        themselves of certain troublesome doubts as to the genuineness of the
                        passion each had professed. This done, that episode in their lives seemed to
                        remove itself to a vast distance in the dim past, so they fancied, and they
                        dismissed it as a departed illusion of their youth. Moreton looked at his
                        friend with more than the old admiration. Indeed Reynolds was a man of
                        superb physique and his face was one to win men and charm women. With all
                        his health and strength and what might be called weatherstain, there was in
                        his dark gray eyes and in his low, rich voice, a suggestion of that
                        nonchalance and indolence which have always been characteristic of the  highest type of Southerners. Nearly six feet
                        in stature, square shouldered, slender, compact, every inch an athlete, he
                        gave one an idea of strength, both physical and mental, which needed to be
                        roused into action.
                    "I think it deuced strange, don't you know, that I should
                        have stumbled into your den here in the mountains," said Moreton.
                        "It is like romance. They put such things in novels."
                    "It was a clever turn of luck," lightly responded Reynolds,
                        "or, perhaps I should say fate. No doubt it is ordered that you and
                        I shall yet work out together some subtle decree of Providence. After all,
                        incidents and events do not come of haphazard."
                    "I never philosophize, you know," said Moreton. "I
                        am never expecting any thing save the very thing I am looking and striving
                        for. I was turkey hunting when I found your outlandish cabin. What the deuce
                        are you doing over there?"
                    "That is a hard question. I have spent some delightfully quiet,
                        uneventful years in that house. I find good shooting at times, the air is
                        pure and sweet, the water is excellent, the retirement is perfect."
                        Reynolds paused for a time and then continued: "Oh well, I had
                        grown tired of wandering and rather disgusted with the world in general and
                        I fancied I should enjoy being a hermit for a while. I tried it and found it
                        charming."
                    Moreton thought he detected evidence in his friend's  manner of a reserve of some stronger reasons
                        for thus hiding himself away from the world; but he took the explanation
                        without further question.
                    "That's a pretty lass of White's,"
                        Moreton said, after the conversation had rambled over such parts of
                        Reynolds' life for the past few years as he cared to lay bare.
                        "Her sweet, solemn, smiling, troubled face has haunted me ever
                        since I saw her."
                    Reynolds laughed.
                    "Don't make too much fun of the poor little
                        thing," he said, half-seriously, half lightly. "Hers is a
                        vacant lot. She is as scentless and colorless as she is cramped and
                        undeveloped. I can't imagine what she was made for."
                    "But what a form and what a haunting, hungry, sweet face she
                        has!"
                    Reynolds looked with a sudden surprise into Moreton's eyes, his own
                        dilating. Presently he laughed again.
                    "I do believe you are in earnest," he exclaimed, in a tone
                        at once deprecatory and querulous, "for you couldn't have
                        the heart, even at this distance, to ridicule the unfortunate little
                        creature. In this region the poor whites are all deplorably ignorant and
                        queer; but sheshe is a pathetic cipher, poor thing."
                    "Physically she is perfect," insisted Moreton.
                        "Can it be possible that you, a poet and artist, have all these
                        years overlooked, ignored, waived aside such a model?  I tell you, Reynolds, she's a genuine wood nymph,
                        don't you know, a dryad whom the satyrs have scared out of her
                        wits. I never saw such eyes, such lips and"
                    "Oh come now," said Reynolds, "I am not going to
                        listen to such nonsense. Besides, it strikes me as next to brutal to think
                        of discussing the charms of an arid, dull, ugly little cracker girl well no,
                        not a cracker, either, a Sandlapper is the local phrase. The fact that such
                        girls exist and must become women and be mothers of like beings, is to me a
                        subject that it is a virtue to shun. On such a theme seriousness is
                        disheartening, levity is diabolical."
                    "Every thing au srieux, as of old!"
                        exclaimed Moreton, "you bewildering old philanthropist! I am too
                        happy to quarrel with you now. Wait till the newness of having discovered
                        your hiding place has somewhat rubbed off and I'll give you punch
                        for punch with a will. But I do say, in all candor, that I never was so
                        struck with any bit of wild beauty as I was with that queer, solemn-eyed
                        girl of White's. She might make any painter's fortune as a
                        Daphne or " Reynolds interrupted him:
                    "It is only once in a century or two," he said,
                        "that the world's intermittent sentiment will permit a
                        Millet or a Burns to cast the glamor of genius over the stolid ugliness and
                        the immitigable emptiness of peasant life. As for me, I have no sympathy
                        with it from the stand-point of art. There is no artistic alchemy that can
                             make a sow's ear fine or
                        beautiful. Those who under-take to idealize ignorance, stupidity and
                        coarseness are worse than such realists as Zola, because they willfully
                        deceive those whom they succeed in interesting."
                    "Go on, wade out, you know I can't follow you,"
                        exclaimed Moreton. "I love the shallow places, the soft sweet edges
                        of all sorts of streams; but I'll bet five to one on you for
                        touching bottom at all points and without weights!"
                    Reynolds laughed and waved aside the wine his friend offered.
                    At this moment a portly gentleman, wearing a bland smile between his
                        iron-gray mutton-chop whiskers, and a vast gold seal below his vest,
                        approached Moreton from another part of the large dining room. This was Mr.
                        Hawkins Noble, a person of importance in Birmingham, a banker in fact, whose
                        money and financial sagacity had given to that prosperous little city the
                        larger part of its vim and activity. It was to be seen at a glance that he
                        was what some one has aptly and inelegantly phrased as a "big fish
                        in a little puddle." He was a New Yorker, and his connection with a
                        great banking house in the metropolis had followed him to Birmingham with
                        the effect of a separate atmosphere circulating close about his stout
                        figure. There was in his movements a celerity quite out of keeping with his
                        heavy limbs and rotund body, and his small blue eyes had a twinkle which was
                        a compromise  between the glint of ice and the
                        genial reflection from a June sky. He rubbed his hands together as he came
                        near the table.
                    "Hello, Moreton," he exclaimed, with the intonation of one
                        speaking at a telephone, "pardon me for interrupting you, but I
                        have a matter of importance. Oh, keep your seat," he hastily added,
                        as Moreton made a movement to rise, "it's nothing in the
                        slightest private, only an urgent invitation for you to join me in a most
                        delightful bit of field sport. General DeKay, who owns a grand plantation
                        and quail preserve below here, has sent me word to collect a party of
                        gentlemen and bring them next week for a few days' shooting. How
                        does that strike you?"
                    "It strikes me deuced hard," answered Moreton.
                        "Don't you know I never did refuse a thing like that,
                        never."
                    Mr. Noble laughed. He looked like a man who thoroughly enjoyed laughing for
                        the sake of the general shaking up it gave him. Reynolds could not help
                        wondering how this rather over-corpulent old gentleman could ever manage to
                        get much comfort out of active field sports.
                    "It's bound to be a most delightful affair,"
                        continued Mr. Noble. "The General has some fine dogs, I shall take
                        mine, you yours: now where can I find one or two more good fellows who are
                        up to such music?"
                    Moreton rose.
                    
                    "Allow me, Mr. Noble, to present my friend, Colonel Reynolds, who is
                        a most enthusiastic sportsman and who has a choice kennel."
                    The banker reached for Reynolds' hand with a readiness and swiftness
                        which, though incomparable, had no appearance of undue haste. It was merely
                        indicative of a nimbleness and a promptness for which in all his affairs Mr.
                        Noble was noted. His mind and body acted together on the instant and on the
                        slightest call.
                    "An enthusiastic sportsman," he said, "is a man
                        after my own heart-pattern. I am glad of your acquaintance, Colonel
                        Reynolds. May I book you and your choicest dogs for the shooting?
                        Don't say no, for we shall have a grand time of it."
                    "Why, I thank you, indeed, sir, but I can hardly say
                        whether"
                    "Come, now, Reynolds," interposed Moreton, "I
                        can't go without you, you know, and you mustn't refuse. I
                        fancy I can see the dogs down to a point now and the birds whirring up from
                        the cover. It makes my blood tingle to think of it!"
                    "Allow me also to insist," added Mr. Noble with a nimble
                        bow and genial smile. "I can vouch for the sport, as also for
                        General DeKay's cordial hospitality. He has a large preserve, which
                        he has been at great pains to stock, and he insists upon my bringing a
                        little army down to shoot with him over his grounds."
                    Reynolds saw no way out of it; in fact he quickly  felt the fascination of the proposed sport taking hold of him. He had
                        been shut up in the mountains for so long that the thought of a few days
                        with jovial companions in the open fields of the low country was like a
                        fragrant breath from the past.
                    "It is very kind of you, Mr. Noble," he at length said,
                        "and if I can, in your opinion, add any thing to the success of
                        your very attractive plan, I ought not to refuse, especially as I am hungry
                        for a genuine old-fashioned day with the quails."
                    "Good!" exclaimed the banker, again darting his soft white
                        hand towards Reynolds, "I am delighted. I am off now or some
                        pressing business; shall be glad to give you and Mr. Moreton further details
                        of our project in due time. Shall hope to have you both at my house to dine
                        before we are off for General DeKay's."
                    He bowed with amazing suppleness and walked swiftly from the room. He left
                        behind him, so to speak, lingering in the air, a suggestion of irrepressible
                        alertness, outrightness and vim.
                    "There's an old boy for you," said Moreton,
                        resuming his seat at the table and motioning Reynolds to do likewise.
                        "I have never seen another at all like him. Make a friend of him,
                        and there's no end to the good he will do you. There's not
                        a doubt that he left urgent business to come here and get me into his party.
                        I'm delighted that you were here, don't you know, for
                        we'll  have a rare lark. General DeKay
                        is one of your fine old-time Southern planters, I'm told, whose
                        hospitality is as broad as his fields."
                    "I'm a fool for consenting to join you," Reynolds
                        bluntly exclaimed, "but I am committed to the folly and must make
                        the most of it."
                    "Since when have you come to consider a day or so behind the dogs in
                        good quail cover a folly?" said Moreton, with a ring of
                        good-humored resentment in his voice.
                    "You misconstrue me," replied Reynolds, "I shrink
                        from the other feature of the affair. I am out of society for good and all.
                        I fear there will be more women than dogs and quail."
                    Moreton laughed as a vision of Mr. Noble's charming daughter arose
                        in his mind. She at least would be one of the party.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IV.
                    WHITE PLAYS "SEVING UP."
                    
                        REYNOLDS spent the next few days with Moreton, and, before
                        he was fully aware of it, he had accepted an invitation to dine at Mr.
                        Noble's house, where he would meet "two or three charming
                        friends," as the banker had declared, "without the least
                        formality in the world."
                    The weather had taken a delightful change, the wind shifting to the south and
                        bringing from the Gulf of Mexico, over the vast extent of pine woods, a
                        summer balminess and pungency. The sky, without a cloud, blue and dreamy
                        bent above the gray-green hills with a Sabbath purity that made every aspect
                        of the landscape surrounding the little city one of sweet guardianship and
                        secure repose, quite at variance with certain social conditions which
                        rendered a considerable portion of the city's populace at times
                        turbulent and dangerous. Many miners and operatives in the vast iron works
                        had fallen into the habit of coming together, at such hours as they were
                        unemployed, in the gaudily sinseled liquor saloons and gambling dens with
                        which certain streets were liberally supplied. Here they  would meet the quiet-mannered but impetuous
                        and bellicose mountaineers, with whom they quarreled and fought, sometimes
                        with fatal results.
                    On an evening a day or two prior to the time set for the dinner at Mr.
                        Noble's, Moreton had a little adventure. It chanced that some
                        business with a foreman of one of his iron establishments had kept him until
                        some time after dark in the office of the latter. In going back to his hotel
                        he took a short route which led him through one of the worst streets in the
                        city. Passing by the brilliantly lighted dens he could hear the clink of
                        glasses and the boisterous voices of the drinkers and hangers-on. Once or
                        twice he was forced to leave the side-walk in order to avoid groups of
                        wrangling fellows who appeared on the point of going into a free-for-all
                        fight. It was while making his way around one of these clumps of would-be
                        rioters that a voice of peculiarly familiar accent reached his ear. It was a
                        high tenor, drawling as follows:
                    "Hit air my bottom erpinion `at I ken whirp out the last dad-burned
                        one uf ye, an' `en not dull the p'int uf this air ole
                        frog-sticker nuther."
                    "Well, why don't ye do it? Talk's talk, but
                        doin' it is another thing intirely," retorted a heavier
                        voice with just a trace of Irish in it.
                    "Hit ain't fur me to go to cuttin' uf ye, ef ye
                        keeps off'n me; but I'll jest be b'iled up
                        an' chawed over ef I don't let yer back bone out in front
                        uf ye, ef ye  starts onto me. An' now
                        ye've hearn me," was the tenor's quick response.
                    Moreton stopped short and glanced sharply into the midst of the group. There
                        was White with a long knife in one hand and a heavy stone in the other, his
                        wizened face and sunken eyes full of defiance and his gaunt frame rigid but
                        ready for desperate action.
                    "Kem on, ye sneakin' keerd-shufflers, an'
                        I'll jest cut ye inter striffins," he continued;
                        "this here knife hit air a eetchin' fur yer livers
                        an' lights, hit air!"
                    Just then a pistol gleamed in the hand of the man nearest Moreton, and the
                        clear, keen click of the lock was sharply audible. It was a slender, but
                        very dangerous sound.
                    "Make shore fire with yer shootin-iron," White added
                        quickly, his voice rising into a thin falsetto, "fur ef ye
                        don't hit air good-by ter you, hit air!" As he spoke he
                        prepared to rush forward.
                    On the instant there would have been deadly work, had not Moreton interfered.
                    "Here! what does this mean?" he exclaimed in a loud,
                        authoritative way, stepping boldly into the midst of the men.
                    His commanding figure, cool bearing and patrician dress wrought an effect of
                        which the sturdiest policeman might well have been proud. "Come
                        with me, Mr. White," he continued, "and you fellows had
                        better get to your homes in quick time."
                    
                    He did not pause or hesitate, but took White by the arm with a strong grip
                        and lod him away. No doubt the very suddenness and boldness of
                        Moreton's action had much to do with the success of his endeavor to
                        befriend White, but it is quite probable that the respect for superior
                        manners, dress and personal appearance, which underlies the gross democracy
                        of the mob, did more. White himself would have resented, with all a
                        mountaineer's well-fostered stubbornness, any man's
                        interference with his luxury of a fight, had that man been, though his best
                        friend, one of his own or a similar class. But he promptly recognized
                        Moreton as both his friend and superior and so allowed himself to be hurried
                        away, the young man's grip on his arm reminding him of a physical
                        force fully proportioned to Moreton's rather massive stature. They
                        soon reached a street where no further danger need be feared, and here
                        Moreton, releasing White's arm, said:
                    "What sort of a beastly trouble is this you have been getting into?
                        What was all that quarrel about?"
                    "Pa'cel o' them air dad burned gam'lers a
                        rowin' wi' me," replied White, rather doggedly,
                        closing his knife and putting it into his pocket.
                    "Fleeced you, I suppose; won all your money. Better let them alone,
                        they'll always beat you," said Moreton, his voice very
                        naturally taking on an advisory and cautionary ring.
                    "Yer calc'late ruther short, jest ther', Mr.
                        Moreting  (b'lieve thet air's
                        yer name), fur I hev four dollars uf them same fellers' good money
                        inter my jeens right now," White answered, with a chuckle of
                        profound satisfaction. "W'en ye serpose `at any uf them
                        air gam'-lers ken beat me a playin' uf seving up,
                        w'y then ye air a foolin' yerself outdacious. Es fur them
                        tother games, I don't know much `bout `em, but seving up hit air my
                        game, jest to a dot, an' I do s'prise some uf `em
                        out-dacious a playin' uf that air small game."
                    "Are you going out to your home to-night?" inquired
                        Moreton.
                    "Yes, an' I s'pect `at them air weemin `ll be
                        outdacious oneasy `bout me, too, fur I promersed `em `at I'd be
                        back by dinner time o' day, when I left `em this
                        mornin'," said White, rather dolefully.
                    After a moment of silence, he added in a hesitating way:
                    "Hev ye seen any thing uf the Colonel fur the last day er two?
                        We've been kinder sorty oneasy `bout him, too. Milly she say `at
                        she most knows `at he air gone fur good an' `at he ain't a
                        comin' back no more. But then I think he air."
                    "Oh, Mr. Reynolds is here with me, don't you know, at my
                        hotel. He's all right," said Moreton. "I hope
                        your wife and daughter are well. Please give them my regards. They were so
                        kind to me that day I staid in your house."
                    "Them's outdacious good weemin o' mine, Mr.  Moreting, `specially Milly, she air a gal
                        `at's all wool an' a yard wide, to a dead sartinty, she
                        air," was the reply.
                    Moreton was not well enough versed in the mountain lingo to catch the full
                        force of White's realistic comparison, but he understood that it
                        was meant to express admiration and affection of a very touching sort, and
                        immediately there arose in his mind a vision of Milly, as she had stood by
                        the door that day, with one foot on the other and her solemnly innocent face
                        half averted.
                    The two men walked on together to a point where they must separate if White
                        went home.
                    "I hev ter go down this here street ef I want er git ter my
                        lay-out," said the mountaineer, stopping. "I er much
                        erbleeged to ye fur what ye've done."
                    Prompted by some impulse quite foreign to his English nature, Moreton held
                        out his hand and said:
                    "Don't forget to give my kindest regards to your wife and
                        daughter."
                    "Sarting, sarting," exclaimed White,
                        "I'll do thet air." He took Moreton's
                        hand with a hearty grasp, but stood as if faltering and hesitating.
                        "Hit air kinder foolish, but I wanter ask ye ter see ef ye
                        can't git the Colonel to kem home poorty soon. Sorter seems like
                        things don't june roun' jest right ef he ain't
                        ther'." Somewhere between his words there was a
                        half-expressed meaning that seemed to reach and yet baffle and elude
                        Moreton's understanding. "Ye needn' mind  er sayin' `at ther's trouble
                        `bout `im er nothin'," continued White, "but jest
                        kinder git `im ter kem home like. Milly she hain't stout, no
                        how." There was a tender tremor in his voice as he spoke the
                        concluding words.
                    Moreton assured him that Reynolds would come home within a few days, and they
                        parted.
                    White had been drinking some, but not enough to intoxicate him beyond a
                        certain loosening of the tongue and a breaking of that crust of half-comical
                        reserve which usually covers the Sand Mountain man. What he had said had
                        affected Moreton peculiarly. As he slowly walked to the hotel
                        "Milly she hain't stout, no how," kept ringing in
                        the young man's mind, as some verse of a foolish song might have
                        done, with an appealing, shadowy sort of sadness in it. He was far from
                        being sentimental, he had never taken any interest in people socially much
                        lower than himself, he had even been suspected of mild brutality in his
                        feelings towards women of the lower classes, not because the brutality did
                        really exist, but on account of his utter lack of sympathy with ignorance
                        and ugliness; and now he was frankly acknowledging to himself that Milly
                        White had touched a very sensitive chord in his nature. In some mysterious
                        way he was actually sympathizing with her, as if in an elusive and nameless
                        trouble. The feeling was not a deep or pervading one: it was, indeed, very
                        slight, a mere breath, so to speak, barely rippling the  surface of his consciousness, but it was so new and unique that
                        it made itself distinctly and immediately separable in quality from all his
                        past experiences. If the question had been put to him: Why do you think of
                        Milly Whitewhat is the basis of your interest in her? He would have
                        answered: I have no interest in herI think of her simply because her
                        strangely sweet and yearning face stays in my memory and will not be cast
                        out: there was an appeal in her eyes so mysteriously affecting.
                    White went afoot over the hills to his home, following the meanderings of a
                        narrow, rugged road. He was not happy, though he sang nasal snatches of
                        camp-meeting or revival songs as he trudged along. He had a sense of the
                        unworthiness of his day's occupation that the jingle of the four
                        dollars in his pocket could not neutralize. When he reached the rude gate in
                        front of his cabin he encountered Milly. She was leaning against one of the
                        low posts, her head bare and her face showing over-pale in the star-light.
                    "Hello, Milly!" he gently exclaimed.
                        "Hain't ye gone ter bed yet?"
                    She unlatched the gate for him without speaking. He passed through and took
                        her by the arm.
                    "He air down yer in town, Milly, down yer wi' the man `at
                        stopped in outen the rain thet air day," he almost whispered.
                        "He air all right; he air comin' home to-morrer er
                        nex' day."
                    
                    "I wush he would come," she murmured, and followed her
                        father into the cabin.
                    Meantime Moreton went to his hotel, where he met Reynolds, to whom he gave
                        the details of his street adventure.
                    Reynolds' face darkened a little.
                    "I wish I could have seen White," he said, in a tone that
                        hinted of vexation. "I suspect that he has taken advantage of my
                        absence by going on a spree. Are you sure he went directly home?"
                    "He said he was going, he went in that direction," Moreton
                        answered. "He was inquiring about you, and I told him you were in
                        my care and quite safe."
                    Reynolds laughed.
                    "Did he say that his weemin, as he calls them,
                        were uneasy about me?"
                    "Something of the sort, I believe, but I gave him satisfactory
                        assurance. He'll report you all right."
                    Reynolds laughed again, a laugh that left Moreton in some sort of doubt. It
                        was a laugh that seemed to be tinged with contempt, or bitterness, or some
                        other element quite foreign to any amused or pleasant state of mind.
                    "He told me in all seriousness," Moreton deliberately but
                        lightly added, "that his daughter believed you would never come
                        back."
                    "Yes," said Reynolds, "she always imagines some
                             such thing when I am away. She's
                        a queer little simpleton, but I owe a good deal to her and her mother. On
                        that account I overlook a great many little annoy-ances they cause
                        me."
                    They went in to supper and the conversation turned to a discussion of the
                        preparations for General DeKay's shooting party. But all the time
                        Moreton's mind kept returning to the mystery which he now felt was
                        hovering about his friend's life, a mystery he dared not attempt to
                        solve. It was plain to him that Reynolds had a secret which this lonely life
                        in the mountains was intended to hide from the world. It is not difficult to
                        discover that one's friend is not opening his whole heart to one,
                        when such is the fact. The reserve of some heavy sorrow, or regret, or
                        remorse may be carefully concealed, but its very concealment is disclosed by
                        the sealed chamber whose door would, we know, be flung wide open, but for
                        the skeleton within. A slight evasion, now and then, of certain careless
                        questions, little hints inadvertently let fall in moments of apparent
                        abstraction, certain abrupt changes of the drift of his talk when the
                        subject was his own experiences, gave to Reynolds' conversation a
                        quality which, to a nature like Moreton's, was as tantalizing as it
                        was suggestive of some hidden trouble.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER V.
                    SOME LIGHT TALK.
                    
                        MR. NOBLE'S house in Birmingham was one of our
                        ugly brick-red American cottages, with many sharp points to its roof, many
                        slender chimneys, a profusion of bay windows and plate glass, and an air of
                        band-box newness, suggestive of fresh paint and scarcely dry plastering. It
                        stood on a slight knoll overlooking a quiet part of the little city, and
                        commanding a view of the mountains in every direction, as well as of the
                        broken picturesque valley. Its ample lawn, shaded by a few native trees, had
                        been set with grass, as if in defiance of Southern custom, and the broad
                        walks were not flanked with the conventional parallel rows of shrubs and
                        flowers so dear to the heart of the old-time Southerner.
                    As Moreton and Reynolds passed through the low iron gate in front of this
                        house, on the evening of Mr. Noble's dinner, they paused just
                        inside the inclosure, and turned about to take a view of the surrounding
                        landscape. The horizon in every direction was broken by irregular lines of
                        blue hills and mountains, the higher peaks sharply defined against a soft
                        crepuscular  sky, whilst the lower ones, seen
                        through the thin gray smoke of the valley, were scarcely distinguishable
                        from the fragmentary clouds floating lazily in the furthest distance. A
                        gentle breeze, running northward, with just an audible ripple, had in it,
                        along with its mountain freshness and purity, a dreamy, languor-breeding
                        influence, suggestive of those palm-studded islands and warm seas a little
                        further south. Overhead the sky was as blue and soft as that of Lombardy,
                        and set with fervid, flaring stars.
                    "This strikes me as very near the ideal climate, don't you
                        know, a golden mean between the indolent, dreamy South and the restless,
                        over-realistic North," said Moreton, taking in a deep draught of
                        the sweet, stimulating air.
                    "The air is pure and wholesome," said Reynolds,
                        "but the scenery is hopelessly monotonous and uninspiring. Six
                        years of it will dry your enthusiasm down to the impalpable dust of dreams.
                        I fear I have had too much of it."
                    "No doubt you have," Moreton bluntly responded,
                        "considering your way of taking it, crooning over there in that
                        remote cabin, aloof from every genuine human influence, morbidly browsing
                        the weeds of your own conscience." His tone was light and chaffing,
                        but Reynolds, as if cut by some hidden meaning of the words, started a
                        little, then, catching his friend's humor, said:
                    
                    "Well, let's go into this palace of pleasure and perhaps I
                        may there get my conscience purified in the light of "
                    
                        "The light of her eyes
                        And the dew of her lips,
                        Where the moth never flies
                        And the bee never sips,"
                    
                    Moreton hummed, taking his friend's arm and moving toward the house.
                        The windows gave forth long streams of light, and a subdued sound of voices
                        came from within the brilliant rooms. To the somewhat rusted taste of
                        Reynolds there came, along with the gleam of chandeliers and the polite
                        murmur, a little thrill, as if he were about to re-enter a long-abandoned
                        but much loved atmosphere. Already the old fascination was returning. He saw
                        through an open window the flutter of fans and the gleam of white throats,
                        laces and pearls. For a single instant all the charms of young womanhood
                        gayly but modestly attired, ready for its half-shy, half-daring little
                        assaults upon the masculine heart, burst upon him. As a drunkard, after a
                        long abstinence, feels his whole nature change at the first sip of wine,
                        Reynolds was at once borne off his guard, and for the instant all the period
                        of his mountain seclusion disappeared. It was as if his gay, almost
                        dissolute life had never been arrested. Some one struck a few rapid chords
                        from a grand piano and then followed some airy popular song.
                    
                    "Why the house is full," said Moreton in an undertone, as
                        they mounted the broad steps to the hall door. "Mr. Noble has
                        exceedingly liberal views on the subject of `a few friends.' We are
                        going to see the elite of Montgomery as well as the bon ton of Birmingham, if I guess correctly."
                    Reynolds made no response. He paused on the threshold and stood for a moment
                        in a faltering attitude. But for the presence of Moreton, he would have
                        turned away and retraced his steps to the hotel, or, more likely, to his
                        cabin in the mountains. One who for years has been entirely beyond the
                        outmost pale of polite society, is apt to feel this trepidation, when on the
                        point of re-entering the charmed circle.
                    The company was not so large as Moreton had imagined. The evening was warm
                        enough to admit of open windows, hence the sound of voices had the more
                        easily reached the outside. Fifteen or twenty persons, mostly young, were
                        scattered throughout a row of elaborate rooms, now made into one by means of
                        folding doors and movable curtains. Mr, Noble, if possible more supple and
                        elastic than ever before, and Mrs. Noble, a tall woman, dressed in elegant
                        taste, greeted Moreton and Reynolds with admirable ease and cordiality. The
                        company was so small that the arrival of two new guests was at once known to
                        all. Moreton glanced about, seeing many faces that he knew, but Reynolds
                        felt himself a stranger to all. His tall, erect figure,  bronzed face and graceful bearing attracted the furtive glances
                        of more than one woman present. Moreton, in bowing low over Mrs.
                        Noble's hand, had managed to say to her unheard by any one else:
                        "Mr. Reynolds, my friend here, is a misanthrope and has long been
                        out of society. You will do me the greatest of favors if you will make him
                        the especial object of your gracious attention this evening."
                    "Certainly," she answered, in a very sweet and low voice,
                        "you shall see how readily I grant your every request, Mr. Moreton.
                        Leave your friend to me."
                    She kept her promise with scrupulous fidelity, and Reynolds found himself
                        drawn into the midst of a charming circle, where, for a time, all memory of
                        the past few years was drowned in the music of gentle voices.
                    Miss Cordelia Noble, the banker's daughter, with whom he presently
                        found himself in conversation, was a merry-eyed, ruby-lipped blonde, as
                        supple and ready as her father and at need as dignified and gracious as her
                        mother. She had just returned with her aunt from New York and talked in a
                        most charming way of the opening of the social season there, of the parties,
                        the opera, the art exhibitions and all the other features of importance to
                        fashionable folk in the metropolis. Her voice was a sincere, honest, girlish
                        one, and her sayings were spiced with those little grotesqueries of thought
                        and phrasing which stay with a bright girl for a while after her so-called
                        school days are over. Reynolds had  not dreamed
                        of how hungry he really was for even this slight sort of social food, and it
                        was well for him that he did not suspect that, before the dinner was half
                        over, he had become, by force of tacit consent amongst all present, the
                        center of the evening's interest.
                    Moreeton was delighted. He had determined to win his friend back from his
                        hermit's life, no matter what might have been in the first place
                        the secret reason for his retirement to such an outlandish den as the
                        mountaineer's cabin.
                    "My father has told me that you are to be one of the party going
                        with him to General DeKay's," Miss Noble said to Reynolds.
                    "Yes," he answered, "and I expect a most
                        delightful time. I hope you are going too?"
                    "Yes, I could not afford to let such an opportunity pass. I have
                        always greatly desired to see something of field sports. I dote on dogs, and
                        I really believe I should like to shoot, and ride after the hounds in a real
                        fox-chase."
                    "I am glad you are going," he said. "Your
                        enthusiasm will be a great help when birds are scarce or when we shoot
                        poorly. Will there be other ladies?"
                    "Oh, quite a number, I dare say. There will be one, at least, the
                        dearest, charmingest woman that ever lived. Mrs. Ransom, a widow, but
                        lovely, fascinating, every thing, indeed, that's sweet and
                        interesting. She was married only a few months when her husband died  he was killed in a duel or something romantic,
                        several years agoand she looks like a mere girl now."
                    Miss Noble was looking directly into Reynolds' face, as she
                        delivered this girlish speech, and she saw something like a shadow flit
                        across his brow and eyes, as if her words had caused him annoyance, but it
                        passed away instantly.
                    "If you really are fond of dogs," he said, "I
                        shall be proud to show you mine. I fancy I have two that can not be matched
                        in the whole world."
                    "What sort are they?" she inquired with immediate interest.
                        "You see my father has made me quite a connoisseur; I am away up in
                        dog-knowledge." She held up a little plump hand to show how high
                        her attainments soared.
                    "Are they pointers, setters or droppers?"
                    Reynolds laughed. Her outright earnestness of interest in such a subject
                        amused him, whilst it also made him feel justified in pursuing the theme,
                        always a pleasant one to a genuine sportsman.
                    "One is a pointer, the other a setter," he answered.
                    "And do they work well together? Do they understand each
                        other's movements, back each other, and all that?" she
                        inquired.
                    "In the most perfect way imaginable. They are like perfectly drilled
                        soldiers, their minds seem to keep pace exactly."
                    "Oh, isn't it the most beautiful sight! I know it  must be. My father has described it to me so
                        often and I am so anxious to see something of it. I don't know why
                        I shouldn't, do you? Mamma rather objectstalks of cruelty to birds,
                        and sneers in her sweet way, at the idea of a young lady caring for field
                        sports. Do you see any wrong in it? I really think I should like to have a
                        gun."
                    "When I was in India I saw a young lady shoot at a tiger,"
                        said Reynolds, "but she missed it."
                    "And ever since you have kept the incident in mind as proof positive
                        of the modern woman's inefficiency in the field of Diana,"
                        she quickly replied.
                    "Not altogether," he said; "Diana's field
                        was so broad." But Miss Noble was not scholar enough to feel the
                        point of his meaning. She was ready enough, however, and responded:
                    "Oh, yes, the whole blue heaven to sail across; I had forgotten that
                        her glory, after all, was mostly moonshine."
                    "We poor men have been unable to forget it since the dreadful fate
                        of Acteon and the drowsy experience of Endymion; but if you will promise not
                        to turn the weapon against me I shall be glad to let you try a beautiful
                        little English twenty-gauge gun of mine when we find the game."
                    "How good of you," she exclaimed delightedly; "it
                        will be charming. Don't tell mamma, she would ridicule me out of
                        it."
                    
                    "Never; I shall die with the secret, if need be. I would not miss
                        seeing you fire your first shot for any thing."
                    "Now there," she exclaimed, "you can't
                        quite be fair; there was something in your voice that suggested a lack of
                        confidence in my nerve and ability. I shan't shut my eyes and dodge
                        andandsqueak."
                    "Of course not," said Reynolds, "I shall expect
                        nothing of the kind. You will kill your bird handsomely, and I shall applaud
                        you and give you encore and"
                    "If you are going to make fun of me, I shall stay at home,"
                        she exclaimed with spirit. "I'm in earnest. I really wish
                        to know how to shoot."
                    Reynolds' eyes involuntarily ran over the outlines of the
                        girl's fine form and rested for a moment on her animated face. She
                        was indeed in earnest, and she looked a perfect model for a Diana, so far as
                        strength and symmetry went. True her bright, vivacious American face had
                        nothing of the straight-cut Grecian severity of beauty, but it was a brave,
                        self-reliant, earnest face, tinged with healthy blood and beaming with the
                        spirit of girlish enterprise. It needed but a look into her eyes for one to
                        know that she was as pure as a violet, with the charm of an infinite
                        capacity for love hovering like a separate atmosphere about her. She was a
                        woman in nothing but physique. Girlhood of the freshest and charmingest sort
                        was apparent in all that she said and  did.
                        Reynolds felt her sweet, breeze-like influence pass over him with the effect
                        of a rare fragrance. He gave himself up wholly to her mood. It was like
                        romping in a furtive way, this light, free prattle with one so young, so
                        frank, so childlike and so beautiful.
                    "Why, if you wish to shoot you shall," he said with smiling
                        earnestness. "I should be glad to show you how. It's quite
                        easy to learn. There's nothing difficult or objectionable in
                        it."
                    "Oh, do you really mean it? Do you think it quiteproper? I never
                        could see any real impropriety, and somehow I have fancied that I have a
                        genuine passion for it. Perhaps I shall not like it after I have tried
                        itbut, yes I shall, I know I shall. Don't you think so?"
                    She had a way of opening her eyes wide, as a child does, when asking a
                        question, and she looked straight into his with a simple fearlessness that
                        was far removed from boldness.
                    "I think you would like any thing thatthatyou ought to
                        like," he said.
                    "I do not like that," she replied navely; "it has
                        the ring of flattery. Why do men always do that? Do they think we like
                        it?"
                    "I don't think you do," he responded, laughing and
                        opening his eyes a little wider in turn. "I really didn't
                        mean flattery, however: I meant to say that you are constituted to enjoy
                        real, rational pastimes and recreations,  that
                        you have healthy, natural tastes. That is not flattery, I hope."
                    "You put it in the least objectionable shape, to say the
                        least," she replied, "and I am willing to compromise,
                        remembering your promise about the gun. I have an ambition that I will
                        confide to you." She leaned toward him a little and added:
                        "When I go to Newport next summer I want to be able to tell my
                        friends about shooting quails in Alabama. It will be so much better than
                        their poor mockery of fox-chasingthat's absurd."
                    "Ah, I begin to understand," said Reynolds. "You
                        may count on me to aid you in every possible way. You shall have most
                        interesting and realistic experiences to relate at the seaside, if you will
                        let me be your guide and teacher. I beg to be your
                        abettor-in-chief."
                    Mrs. Noble and Moreton approached, just at this point, and the subject was
                        dropped. In fact Moreton at once drew Miss Cordelia away to some other part
                        of the house, and managed to be near her for the rest of the evening. But
                        the girl left with Reynolds something that lingered, diffusing itself
                        throughout his consciousness, with the effect of a mildly exhilarating
                        potion. Strangely enough, the words of Moreton's little song: 
                            
                                "The light of her eyes
                                And the dew of her lips,
                                Where the moth never flies
                                And the bee never sips,"
                            
                        
                         had all the evening been tinkling in his ears.
                        Not that Miss Noble had troubled him in the least with any thing like love
                        at first sight. She was not a girl for him to fall in love with; but her
                        gentle, earnest voice, her grace of person and manner, and her half-girlish,
                        half-womanly independence of speech had touched him and quickened in him
                        germs of sympathy he had thought long since dead. He felt old dry wells of
                        feeling bubbling afresh. He was gently moved as if by a subtle change within
                        him. Mrs. Noble found him with this mood upon him, and it lent to his talk
                        its freshness and fascination. She was charmed, and when she was told that
                        for the past six years he had scarcely left the cabin over in the mountains,
                        the touch of mystery did not lessen her interest in him.
                    Moreton, without thought of what sympathy he might arouse by his peculiarly
                        graphic manner of presenting the subject, described to Miss Cordelia the
                        wild, strange prettiness of Milly White and the pathetic ignorance in which
                        her whole nature seemed steeped.
                    "Why, how romantic!" she exclaimed, "she must be
                        interesting. She ought to be taught. There may be something well worth
                        developing behind those wonderful, mysterious eyes of that girl."
                    Cordelia's school days were not yet so far in the past that she had
                        got rid of certain academical theories. She still reveled in the belief that
                        education might make a king of a frog.
                    
                    "If she could be taught," said Moreton, in a reflective
                        way; "but I suppose such a thing is impossible. She comes of such
                        vulgar ancestry, ignorance and stupidity are her heritage, don't
                        you know, and she probably has no capacity. Her limitations are set and
                        nothing can broaden them, I fear. But her beauty, if it may be called by
                        that name, is certainly remarkable. I have never seen a more perfect
                        formpetite, lithe as a leopard's and as graceful as a
                        fawn's, and her face has something in it so appealingly and so
                        hopelessly sweet and pure. But then such vacancy, such hideous
                        ignorance."
                    Cordelia grew interested. Her vivid imagination took quick and strong hold on
                        his sketch of this mountain girl, filling in with its own lines and coloring
                        the spaces he had left.
                    "Why hasn't Mr. Reynolds taught her?" she
                        exclaimed, with just a trace of deprecation in her voice. "He has
                        been over there so long, living in the same house. It's a shame
                        that he has not directed her mind so as to awaken some" she stopped
                        short and a little color flushed her cheeks.
                    "Oh, Reynolds sees nothing of her fine points," Moreton
                        hastened to say without choice of words. "He's a
                        Southerner, don't you know, and considers her poor white
                        trashthat's the phrase here. He thinks it absurd that a gentleman
                        should look at such a girl long enough to form any opinion as to the
                        question of her beauty."
                    
                    The conversation was broken in upon and ended at this point by some trivial
                        turn of the evening's happenings, and soon after Reynolds and
                        Moreton took their leave.
                    They walked toward the hotel, each silently revolving in his mind that part
                        of his experience at the banker's house which had chanced to most
                        deeply impress him. Reynolds, in fact, was scarcely conscious of his
                        companion's presence, so full was he of many other indeterminate
                        but wholly pleasing plans for making Miss Noble happy with his dogs and gun
                        when they should meet at General DeKay's plantation. Moreton had
                        lighted a cigarette and pulled his hat down over his eyes.
                    "This girl of White'show old is she, Reynolds?" he
                        presently inquired, in a tone so abrupt that his companion looked up as if
                        startled. "She's scarcely a woman yet, is she?"
                    Reynolds did not answer promptly, but kept his eyes on Moreton's
                        face while they walked two or three paces.
                    "Oh, the devil, what do I know or care about her?" he at
                        length said. "You'd better go out and interview her. She
                        seems to have tangled your fancy." The words look brutal, but his
                        voice and manner were merely indifferent and light, with a touch of
                        good-humored raillery.
                    "She does stay in my head somehow," Moreton frankly
                        replied. "And I confess that it amazes me  to know that you have never discovered what deuced physical
                        perfection she has. You needn't try to make me believe in your
                        obtuseness, however: I know you too well, don't you know."
                    Reynolds laughed, and laying his hand on Moreton's arm, said:
                    "You have happened to see her at some exceptional angle and with an
                        artist's eye. Poor little thing, it is a small measure that fills
                        her life. Hers is a hopeless lot. Let's choose a better subject.
                        Now there's Miss Noble."
                    Moreton did not respond promptly, but looked rather searchingly at his
                        friend. He almost resented the democratic freedom that linked so readily and
                        intimately the names of Milly White and Cordelia Noble. Presently he said:
                    "Miss Noble is an exceptional American girl. She has all the navet
                        and freshness of the country without any trace of its deuced
                        vulgarity."
                    "Your long residence of two months in this great country fully
                        equips you for criticism," replied Reynolds with mock gravity.
                    "I have lived a thousand years in America," was
                        Moreton's response. "Every hour has been a decade. I never
                        felt a genuine sentiment before I came here. You must pardon me if I
                        arrogate to myself the right to speak patronizingly to one who has only been
                        here thirty or thirty-five years."
                    
                    "I see how it is," said Reynolds. "The same old
                        story. Another sweetheart. You had four in Paris, three in Rome, two in
                        Geneva, two in "
                    "Oh, come now, none of that," Moreton exclaimed with an
                        impatient gesture. "For once and forever I am in earnest,
                        don't you know. I mean to marry Miss Noble."
                    "I am heartily glad of it," said Reynolds, grasping his
                        friend's hand. "I cordially congratulate you, Moreton,
                        What a sweet, bright, perfectly natural girl she is! I honor you all the
                        more for your choice."
                    As they walked on to the hotel, Reynolds was thinking what a fair outcome
                        this marriage would be to Moreton's rather adventuresome bachelor
                        career. He did not dare figure for himself any thing so happy, but his
                        imagination was full of floating, rosy fantasies, formless as yet, but ready
                        to take almost any shape of beauty, grace or passion. He felt a quicker
                        movement of his blood, he breathed deeper, a wider horizon seemed open to
                        him all at once. He dared not try to analyze his state of feeling, lest the
                        test should dissipate it. Like some mere stripling just fallen in love, he
                        heard all through his dreams that night a sweet, strange voice singing that
                        light stanza of Moreton's song:
                    
                        "The light of her eyes
                        And the dew of her lips.
                        Where the moth never flies
                        And the bee never sips."
                    
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VI.
                    AT THE GATE.
                    
                        REYNOLDS started to go on foot to White's cabin
                        among the mountains. His immediate purpose was to arrange for sending his
                        dogs down to Birmingham in a few days, in order that they might be ready for
                        the trip to General DeKay's. He was glad of this excuse for getting
                        away for a time from the town, out into the woods, where he might try to
                        understand himself; for he was in a mood very different from any he had
                        experienced in the last six years, and in fact very different from any he
                        ever before had realized. Since the evening of Mr. Noble's dinner a
                        change had been going on within him. It was as if some reservoir of feeling,
                        hitherto scaled up, had been tapped, from which a rare sensation had
                        diffused itself throughout his being, mildly thrilling his nerves and
                        vaguely firing his blood. He could trace this change to no definite source,
                        nor could he be sure whether it tended toward some new and brighter phase of
                        his variable life, or toward some lurking evil. He felt the pressure of a
                        doubtful presentiment, as all strongly imaginative natures at times do, and
                        in the midst of a vivid sense of pleasure there hovered a dim shadow of
                        dread.
                    
                    It was in the twilight following an unusually warm day, that he turned aside
                        from the highway to follow a trail leading over a spur of the mountain on
                        the further side of which stood White's cabin. The stars were
                        already coming out in the soft, southern sky, and a slender moon hung
                        half-way down the west. The air was fragrant with the keen essence of resin
                        and the balsam of pine leaves, but there was scarcely more than a mere
                        breath astir among the frondous groves. He walked rapidly, unconsciously
                        timing his strides to the pulses of his mood. Why would the voice of Miss
                        Noble keep ringing in his ears, and her earnest, honest eyes keep looking
                        straight into his with some almost imperceptible shadow of rebuke in them?
                        And why did the poor little face of Milly White now and again force itself
                        upon his inner vision? He could hardly be called morbidly sensitive, but he
                        had been for so long a time shut away from the finer and sweeter social
                        influences. Somewhat a dreamer, too, as are all persons who dwell apart with
                        nature and art. Since his hermit life began he had been a contributor, under
                        a nom de plume, to a number of English and American
                        publications, both as an artist and as a writer, so that he had divided his
                        time between the pleasures of the sportsman and the milder excitements of
                        the provincial magazineist. He had fancied for a long time that he was
                        happy, and that all the fascination of woman's charms had ceased
                        for him. Now as he strode along  he was loth to
                        admit, even in the secrecy of self-communion, that the old influence was
                        taking hold again with a zest as fresh as it was keen and deep. He stopped
                        at the highest point reached by the sinuous trail and sat down upon a stone.
                        The tall, puffy column of black smoke from the iron furnaces rose slantingly
                        against the line of sky above the valley where the town lay. In another
                        direction, beyond a dusky gulch, some lines of fire were burning along the
                        mountain sides, like the lights of an army camp. He tried to analyze his
                        feelings, but the effort was futile; he got up and went on down to the
                        cabin, his blood tingling as if with wine.
                    The moon had fallen to the western mountain-tops and was touching a peak with
                        its delicate horn when he reached the rustic gate. Milly was there, as was
                        her wont, to welcome him home.
                    "I knowed 'at ye'd come," she said,
                        "fur I dremp last night at ye was dead an'
                        'at's a sign, ye know."
                    Her face, upturned to his, caught from the faint moonlight, or from some
                        other heavenly reflection, a gleam of peaceful happiness that added
                        something which Reynolds never before had seen there, or if ever he had seen
                        it, it was when, a mere child, she had so faithfully hung over him and
                        tended him through a long and almost fatal illness. The memory of her
                        untiring patience and gentleness, her quick sense of his needs and her
                        silent but evidently deep joy at his final recovery, now suddenly rushed
                        upon him.
                    
                    "I've ben a wushin' ye'd come
                        an' I'm so glad!" she murmured, as she opened the
                        gate for him. "Hit air so lonesome when ye'r
                        away."
                    Her lithe, plump figure was clothed in a clinging gown of cotton stuff and a
                        white kerchief was pinned about her throat. Down over her shoulders in a
                        long, rather thin brush fell her rimpled pale yellow hair. Her cheeks glowed
                        and her lips had on them the dew of innocent and, alas, ignorant maidenhood.
                        A flash of recognition leaped into the mind of Reynolds, though he was
                        scarcely conscious of it, and Milly White's strange beauty was no
                        longer invisible to him.
                    "Ye ortn't to stay away so long," she added, not
                        in rebuke, but in a low, quavering voice like that of some happy bird. Her
                        mountain dialect, crabbed as it appears in writing, added emphasis to the
                        fresh, half wild tenderness of her tones.
                    All around the woods and little broken fields were dim and silent. The warm
                        southern stars burned overhead and the fitful balmy air crept past with
                        furtive whispers. The moon slipped down behind the mountain, leaving on the
                        peak a delicate wavering ghost that slowly vanished into the common haze of
                        the night. Reynolds paused in the little gateway and looked down into
                        Milly's lifted shining face. In that instant a tender feeling, a
                        subtle sense of some obscure but immediate draught upon the inner sources of
                        his passionate nature, took complete possession of him. The touching
                        sweetness  of her face, the wild grace of her
                        form, and that charming expression of strength and development, impressed
                        him. He forgot the cabin, the pinched and sapless mountain life and all its
                        empty hopelessness. For the time he saw nothing but Milly as his
                        over-stimulated imagination lighted her face and form with the allurements
                        of irresistible beauty. He stooped, and, swiftly folding her in his arms,
                        kissed her passionately.
                    "Oh!" she cried, her voice slipping with sharp sweetness
                        away through the dusky woods. It was like the quick musical chirp of a glad
                        bird. She clung to him with strong, loving arms.
                    He let her go presently and said:
                    "It is late for you to be out; come in now, the night air is
                        beginning to be chilly and you'll catch a cold."
                    "Oh, no!" she navely responded, "let's us
                        stay out yer, they're a smokin' in ther, an'
                        hit's so nice ter be out yer." Her mountain dialect, as
                        filtered through her pure, peculiarly musical voice, lost all its harshness
                        and became a fitting expression of a part of the fascinating enigma of her
                        character. "Ye'v' ben away so long, John,
                        an' sometimes I wus afeared to go ersleep 'cause ye wus
                        gone, an' 'cause I'd dream ye wus dead."
                    "Well, come in now," he gently urged, drawing the long pale
                        brush of her hair through his hand and passing on into the cabin.
                    
                    
                        Her voice was like the quick musical chirp of a glad bird. She clung to
                            him with strong, loving arms. Page 68.
                    
                    
                    She looked after him, the smile slowly fading out of her face and giving
                        place to that half-vacant, mildly hopeless expression which it usually wore.
                        She put her rather large but finely chiseled hands on top of her head, with
                        the fingers laced together, and with her elbows extended gazed listlessly at
                        the sky. She felt a vague sense of disappointment blended with a delicious
                        happiness. When Reynolds entered the cabin, White and his wife were leaning
                        over a mere pretense of fire and smoking their pipes, with such abandonment
                        to the luxury that they merely glanced at him as he entered; but mountain
                        politeness overcame the tobacco at last, and they got up, greeting him
                        warmly. He shook hands with them in turn, asking about their health, but
                        declined to sit down, preferring after a few commonplace inquiries, to go
                        into his own room and be alone.
                    His first sensation on entering his apartment was one of disgust at its rough
                        and uninviting aspect. Indirectly the question was assailing him: why had he
                        ever been content in such a place? A query of this nature may arise in
                        one's mind without any definite form, impressing itself by a sort
                        of implication and indirect reflection from a throng of comparisons
                        involuntarily and almost unconsciously made. Reynolds' nature was
                        intensely virile, his passions powerful and his imagination tropical. It
                        goes with the saying that his feelings and tastes were subject to violent
                        and sudden  changes. He usually had, however,
                        perfect self-control and an outward appearance of calmness under the most
                        trying circumstances. But let the check-rein once break and his fiery
                        passions get control of the bit, then nothing that passion demands could
                        escape him. He was aware of this; he knew the need of self-restraint, for at
                        the bottom his was a noble soul, full of self-sacrifice and generous,
                        liberal manliness.
                    On the floor by his easel lay a scrap of white paper with something scrawled
                        upon it. He picked it up mechanically and saw that Milly had been trying to
                        copy the dog-sketch that still rested on the easel. It was a poor, crude
                        scratch, such as a little child might have accomplished, showing in its
                        stiff, hesitating lines the limitations of the girl's vague notion
                        of art. He smiled at this evidence of the first stirrings of culture in a
                        handful of almost barren soil. Art is forever dropping seeds that germinate
                        under all the exigencies of weather. Few of the shootlets live to show more
                        than a tender point above the surface of the ground, but their number is
                        legion and each spike gives to the air an infinitesimal trace of fragrance
                        which cheers us as we breathe.
                    While he stood looking at her work, Milly came into the room through a
                        doorway that led from the kitchen. He was still smiling when he looked
                        towards her and said:
                    "Did you draw this, Milly?"
                    
                    She put her hands over her face and leaned against the wall. The light from a
                        large lamp on the table gave to her figure the effect of a strong sketch in
                        charcoal. He noted her attitude with an artist's eye, and with a
                        man's eyes, too. There was a bird-like grace in the droop of her
                        shoulders and in the fine curves of her body and limbs. Her flaxen hair gave
                        forth just a modicum of golden light.
                    He did not repeat his inquiry. Something in her appearance checked him. All
                        that Moreton had said about her came into his mind with almost startling
                        force. How clearly he felt now the dryad-like strength of her figure, and
                        the infantile purity of her face. She had the soul of a woman, too, for how
                        tenderly she had nursed him.
                    "Get me my slippers, please, Milly," he presently said,
                        more to break up the situation than with a desire to be served.
                    She let fall her hands and sprang to obey him, with the noiseless swiftness
                        of a kitten. She fetched his slippers, and also his dressing gown, from a
                        corner of the room. This done she lingered near him for awhile, as if hoping
                        he might need some further help. She would not look straight at him now, but
                        kept her face half turned away, glancing sidewise under her drooping
                        eyelids, one hand fluttering idly about the kerchief at her throat.
                    Some one lifted the latch of the door leading to the  room in which White and his wife were smoking. At the first
                        click Milly darted noiselessly into the kitchen. It was White, who
                        hesitatingly thrust his head past the door-post and said:
                    "I loaded three hunderd carterges fur the twelve-bore gun."
                    "Load a hundred for the twenty-gauge, if you please," said
                        Reynolds, "two and a half drams of powder and three-quarters of an
                        ounce of number eight shot. Put two wads on the powder, don't
                        forget."
                    "All right, sir, I air 'quainted wuth jest what ye want.
                        Them shells 'll be fixed up jest to the dot. Ye orter see them air
                        dogs, they shine same like they'd ben 'iled."
                    "Thank you, I'm glad of that. Good night," said
                        Reynolds, anxious to get back to his thoughts.
                    White withdrew his head.
                    Milly, from the shadows of the kitchen, gazed fixedly at Reynolds, as he
                        stood in the mellow light of the lamp.
                    He was, indeed, a man pleasing to look upon, strong, tall, nobly
                        proportioned, with a grand head and a dark, handsome face. His limbs were
                        long and muscular, his shoulders square and broad, his chest deep, his waist
                        rather slender, his whole bearing that of a man by birth and of right a
                        gentleman, and by reason of health and training an athlete. Say what we may,
                        such a man bears about with him a power of fascination, a magnetism able to
                        work great good or great evil  or both. He is a
                        flame in which a soul may be warmed or burned up, according to
                        circumstances. A girl of Milly's ignorance and inexperience had
                        nothing to protect her from such danger as his influence might bring. She
                        would have gone unhesitatingly to any length he might have asked, without
                        the slightest thrill of doubt or fear. Hers was not a nature capable of much
                        expansion or improvement. A long line of mountain ancestors had fixed in her
                        the hereditary simpleness, narrowness and mental barrenness of the
                        Sandlapper; but along with these limitations had come the gift of a
                        flower-like beauty of form and face, and a voice sweeter than any
                        bird's. She had come up in a wild, lonely way, running free in wind
                        and sun and rain, quite illiterate, utterly unaware of conventional
                        proprieties, truthful, honest, affectionate, passionate, after a fashion,
                        and as independent as any deer in the woods.
                    It would not be making the statement too strong to say that Reynolds came to
                        a discovery of her striking beauty as one comes upon those haunting visions
                        of loveliness in one's dreams. Why had he not noticed it before? He
                        was vaguely aware that in some way Cordelia Noble had opened his eyes by
                        stirring up the stagnant fountains of his nature and setting old currents to
                        flowing in his veins. Her light girlish prattle had fallen into his ears
                        with the effect that a shower produces on parched and withered sod, and it
                        had had the charm of bird-songs after a long, dreary winter.
                    
                    He remained at the cabin several days before the time came for going to
                        General DeKay's, and it was in some way soothing and restful to
                        have Milly shyly hovering around him. He did not fully realize how deeply he
                        was absorbed in studying her face, her form, her free, wild grace of motion
                        and attitude, and the strange, crude music of her voice. She followed him
                        wherever he went, or at least whenever he would permit it, content to be
                        near him, like some faithful animal. She had always acted thus, but he never
                        had noticed it before.
                    When at last the time arrived for his departure for General DeKay's,
                        Reynolds rose early in the morning to get ready for the little journey. The
                        DeKay place was down on the Alabama river, near Montgomery, and the company
                        from Birmingham would go by rail to the former city, where General DeKay
                        would have carriages for them. The fact is that Reynolds had no physical
                        preparations to make, these having all been attended to with shrewd
                        faithfulness by White; but there was a sort of indefinable dread, or
                        aversion, or some other objection hovering in his mind in connection with
                        the thought of leaving his retirement, his hermitage, and floating out once
                        more upon the open sea of life. In the early gray of morning he crept
                        silently from the cabin and walked or rather climbed to the mountain top and
                        sat down on a stone with his face to the east. He had spent a restless
                        night,  indulging, between snatches of
                        unrefreshing sleep, regret, remorse, repentance and other nightmares of
                        conscience. He had almost involuntarily sought this high perch overlooking
                        all the country round, as if expecting to be purified by the soft rare
                        atmosphere and the exhilarating wildness and freshness of the view. The east
                        was all aglow with the wonder of sunrise, whilst the valley wherein
                        Birmingham lay was shrouded in a mottled cloak of coal smoke from the
                        furnaces. The foot-hills, clothed in their bristling pines and ragged
                        scrub-oaks, were softened almost into tenderness by the blueish film
                        hovering over them. A dewy coolness and sweetness came up on the morning
                        wind as if out of the lowest stratum of the valley, in strong contrast with
                        the absolute dryness of the stony mountain top. Slowly the fire of the
                        sunrise increased in the filmy east until the great morning-gate seemed
                        suddenly to fly open with a wide upward flare of flame and long, glowing
                        spears of gold reaching out across the valley and billowy foot-hills.
                        Reynolds was in a condition that demanded solitude, and yet he felt no
                        definite purpose in the mood, no clear reason for desiring to be alone. It
                        filled him with a sudden annoyance when a slight sound caused him to turn
                        and see Milly standing close by, bareheaded and smiling radiantly. He
                        frowned.
                    "What are you here for, Milly?" he demanded sternly.
                        "Go back immediately."
                    
                    The girl did not speak. The light went out of her face and a strange grayness
                        overspread it instead. She turned about with a shrinking motion and walked
                        slowly away down the steep slope of the mountain into the straggling wood.
                        Almost immediately Reynolds felt how brutal his act had been and regretted
                        it, hated himself for it. He arose as if to follow her, but faltered and
                        hesitated, allowing his eyes to wander over the grand mountain landscape now
                        flooded with the full light of the sun. What sort of change was this that
                        was coming into his life? Something like a warning shadow had fallen into
                        his soul, and yet some sweet foreboding was with it, some tender, subtle
                        charm luring him with a deep and sweet fascination. He stood a while gazing
                        dreamily, but seeing nothing, then, shaking himself as one freeing himself
                        from slumber, he walked rapidly in the direction taken by Milly. Half way
                        down the slope in a shadowy clump of dwarf pines he found the girl sitting
                        on an old log, her face buried in her hands, sobbing bitterly. He stopped
                        close to her and stood for a moment looking at her. How pitiful a picture
                        she made, with her drooping little form, almost covered by the thin gold
                        veil of bright disheveled hair, outlined against a tangle of broken boughs!
                        He sat down beside her and took one of her wet little hands in his.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VII.
                    AN OLD PLANTATION HOUSE.
                    
                        GENERAL DEKAY'S house was on a slight knoll
                        overlooking in one direction the Alabama river, and a broad stretch of
                        fertile cotton lands, whilst every other view was lost in the dense shadows
                        of semi-tropical woods. The building was wholly wanting in architectural
                        beauty, yet it was picturesque enough, with its wide verandas and tall,
                        heavy, stuccoed columns, its many-gabled roof and huge stack of chimneys.
                        Tall magnolia trees grew about it, vines clambered over it, and its
                        small-paned, many-mullioned windows and open halls, gave it an air of
                        old-fashioned conservatism and hospitality quite in a line with what one has
                        always read and heard of southern country life among the wealthy planters of
                        the Gulf States. Spaciousness was the most marked feature of the building.
                        The rooms were many and large, arranged for the comforts of unlimited light
                        and air. When the windows and doors were all thrown open, a breeze blowing
                        from any quarter flowed through the house with unchecked freedom. The floors
                        were of ash, mostly uncarpeted, and the walls and ceilings  were heavily paneled with oak. Wide winding
                        stairways and huge fire-places, cumbrous chandeliers and sconces, together
                        with what appeared an over-crowded amount of massive old-time furniture,
                        suggested a formal stateliness rather out of keeping with that freedom of
                        welcome which was and is the distinctive charm of southern hospitality. The
                        mansion had been built and furnished long before the war, in the most
                        prosperous and extravagant days of slavery, when the planter knew no limit
                        to his ability to make and spend and when he set no bound to the number of
                        his guests or the length of their stay under his roof. The dark gray stucco
                        and weather-beaten shingles, together with the old time arrangement of the
                        doors and windows, gave to the building a very ancient look, as if it might
                        have stood there since a time when men lived as did the old fighting and
                        feasting barons of medieval England. Bucks' antlers hung in the
                        hall, along with heavy rifles and fowling pieces, and a few striking
                        ancestral portraits looked down from the dark walls. It had known much
                        revelry of a thoroughly proper sort, this grand old home of the DeKays, and
                        its inmates, for several generations, had exerted a marked influence in the
                        social and political affairs of the state. The present owner had been a
                        fighting general in the confederate army and had won by heroic bravery the
                        right to his distinguished military title.
                    When the party from Birmingham reached this 
                        charming old house by the river, it was late in the afternoon. Several other
                        guests had already arrived from Montgomery, Pensacola and Mobile. A corps of
                        obsequious and clever negro servants, of both sexes and various ages, were
                        ready to attend all comers. The host, a slender man of middle height,
                        wearing a gray military beard, greeted every body with low bows and profuse
                        words of welcome, whilst his rather stout and altogether good and motherly
                        wife had a way that was welcome itself.
                    Reynolds and Moreton were given rooms adjoining and connected by a door,
                        their windows looking down a long shining reach of the reed-bordered river.
                        An ideal place to sit and smoke, Moreton thought, as he lighted a cigarette
                        and drew a chair so that he could watch the silvery winged kite sailing
                        about in the distance, its forked tail and small head giving it the effect
                        of a fanciful Japanese design wavering on the background of blue-gray sky. A
                        flock of domestic geese were on the river, floating idly, now and then
                        lifting their wings and flapping them rapidly and screaming in clamorous
                        concert. Wide fields, gently rolling, and distinctly showing the ridged and
                        parallel rows of cotton and corn stalks, swept away almost to the horizon,
                        bounded on one hand by the river, and on the other by a thick wood, where
                        even the deciduous trees still retained a trace of summer greenery.
                        Something in the air suggested the sea, and a sensation, as of extreme  remoteness and isolation, took possession of
                        Moreton's mind. It was his first experience of life on a
                        low-country plantation. The idyllic simplicity, quietude and serenity
                        impressed him as much as did the state-liness and amplitude. Here was an
                        estate of thousands of acresmany miles in extentbearing on its surface all
                        the marks of almost primitive modes of husbandry. Worm fences, shallow
                        plowing, the use of hoe and wooden rake; gates with pins and sockets instead
                        of latches, clap-boards instead of shingles and plank, and so on throughout
                        the gamut of bucolic appurtenances long since discarded in thrifty and
                        progressive regions. But beyond all this, there was that indescribable air
                        of isolation from the rest of the world, as if the plantation were an
                        independent self-sufficient hereditament of the DeKays, owing no allegiance
                        to any power outside its boundary lines. No other house, save the small
                        cabins of negro tenants scattered here and there, was visible. The estate
                        was too large to admit of neighbors.
                    When Moreton and Reynolds went down to the drawing-room they found themselves
                        in the midst of a company composed largely of gentlemen, there being but
                        four ladies besides the hostess. Miss Noble was surrounded by a group of
                        young sportsmen freely discussing hunting and shooting topics, her bright,
                        strong face and Juno form showing at their best. A tall young woman, a Miss
                        Beresford from Montgomery, whose father had been governor of the stateand
                        whose brother, Mr.  Mallory Beresford, a noted
                        shot, was presentstood near a window in conversation with Mr. Noble and
                        General DeKay. But the most striking group in the room was composed of Mr.
                        Mallory Beresford and two ladies, one a quick-spoken, alert, rather faded
                        looking blonde, whose lips could not cover her irregular teeth, the other a
                        pale, sweet-faced, almost slight young person, whose bearing, though
                        decidedly womanly and dignified, had a girlish charm wholly indescribable.
                        The blonde was speaking in a rapid manner, and her words, sharply
                        accentuated, reached the ears of Reynolds:
                    "Oh, I am really not a guest," she was saying, "I
                        invited myself. I came to gather material for a letter to our paper. I
                        begged the privilege of General DeKay. A description of a shooting-party on
                        a genuine old Southern plantation is a rare find for a correspondent. I feel
                        that I am in grand luck." Her gestures amounted to gesticulations.
                    "Ah, Miss Crabb, what journal do you represent?" inquired
                        Mr. Beresford in a voice modulated to the gentlest southern inflections.
                    "The Ringville Star, of Ringville, Indiana. I am
                        the associate editor," she glibly responded.
                    Reynolds heard this much with his eyes fixed on the face of the other woman
                        whose smile had that rare quality of sweetness suggesting sadness, and whose
                        large, soft blue eyes beamed with a tenderness and truthfulness that seemed
                        in some way touched with  well repressed
                        trouble. There are faces whose expression will at first sight suggest some
                        secret story of grief or wrong or regret. Sometimes a high order of beauty
                        will, of itself, carry with it, as the flower carries its perfume, a
                        haunting reminder, or half-reminder, of the subtle ways of fate. Reynolds
                        was aware that General DeKay was coming across the room to meet him, but he
                        could not tear his gaze from the young woman's lovely face.
                    "I haven't presented you to my niece," said the
                        General, taking the young man's arm. "She is really my
                        daughter now, for I have made her my heir. Haven't much left for
                        her to inherit, however, save a good old name."
                    For a moment Reynolds' hand closed over the warm, dainty fingers
                        extended towards him, and he bowed low before Mrs. RansomAgnes Ransom, a
                        name that was soon to become one of thrilling sweetness to him.
                    "Oh, it's very pleasant, in many ways, to belong to the
                        press," Miss Crabb was saying. "One can go every where and
                        see every thing. The railroads give us free passes and the hotels put our
                        rates to the lowest. For instance, how could I ever have found my way into
                        this delightful house and this charming company, if I hadn't
                        carried the magic of the press with me?" She ended with a rather
                        musical laugh. Her question was one that Beresford dared not attempt to
                        answer, for, in fact, he knew of no other way by which she could have  gained an entrance to this secluded and
                        exclusive place. It chanced that he knew how the editor of a Montgomery
                        paper had interested himself in Miss Crabb's behalf and begged
                        General DeKay to extend her the privilege of "writing up"
                        the shoot.
                    "She seems to be an excellent young woman, and then her paper is
                        hopelessly obscure. You needn't fear you will ever hear of it
                        again, unless she sends you a copy," the editor urged,
                        "and I feel a sort of fraternal responsibility for her freedom of
                        the country while she's here. We can't be too tender in
                        our treatment of Northern editors. Whatever we do offensive to the least one
                        of them will be trumpeted to the four winds by them all."
                    Beresford very much desired to talk with Mrs. Ransom, but the glib
                        representative of the Star went on so rapidly that he
                        could find no chance for withdrawing his attention. Then when Reynolds
                        appeared on the scene all hope faded out.
                    "You are a fine shot, Mr. Beresford, I presume," continued
                        Miss Crabb, "kill birds on the wing?"
                    "I believe I am a fair shot," he answered, with a true
                        sportsman's faith in the impressiveness of modesty. "I
                        shoot well enough to enjoy the sport."
                    "I saw Captain Bogardus and Dr. Carver shoot together
                        once," she said, "and it was just lovely. They hit most
                        every timelittle glass balls thrown out of a trap. It was
                        extraordinary."
                    
                    Reynolds and Mrs. Ransom had moved away. It was a great relief to Beresford
                        when dinner was announced. At any other time he might have been able to
                        bear, and even enjoy Miss Crabb's rapid and versatile conversation,
                        but now that Agnes Ransom was seemingly absorbed in listening to this dark,
                        handsome stranger, he could not keep his wits about him. Miss Crabb had to
                        do all the talking, a thing she did not seem to regard as a hardship.
                    "There is a veritable ruin near here, I am told," she said,
                        "a picturesque old heap, the remains of a grand mansion, on a bluff
                        by the river. I should very much like to go and see it before I return to
                        Montgomery. Do you know any thing about it?"
                    "No, I regret that I have not the pleasure. I believe I have never
                        heard of it," he answered. "General DeKay should be able
                        to inform you." And so he conducted her to the host and hastened to
                        another part of the room, conscious of having been guilty of a petty turn.
                    Moreton had joined the group of which Miss Noble was the light, whilst
                        Reynolds and Mrs. Ransom had found their way to Miss Beresford, whose ultra
                        Southern face and figure were supplemented by conversational graces
                        strikingly suggestive of a social era almost forgotten, save among the most
                        conservative people of the low country. She was tall and dark, with regular
                        features, large, rather expressionless black eyes and straight  black hair. Mrs. Ransom introduced Reynolds,
                        and then dinner was announced.
                    "This is a gentlemen's party," Miss Beresford
                        said, on the way to the dining-room, "and it has been arranged that
                        the ladies shall act as waiters, and we beg you not to criticise our methods
                        too severelywe are not perfectly trained to the work."
                    "One who has been for several years living in the family of a
                        mountaineer, as I have, should not be in a criticising mood,"
                        responded Reynolds; "how shall such an one presume to judge whether
                        or no you balance a tray artistically?"
                    He spoke lightly, but the word mountaineer, as he uttered it, called up with
                        electrical swiftness, a thought that sent a strange thrill through him. A
                        low, pathetically plaintive voice seemed to speak to him in the mountain
                        dialect. He saw a little coarsely-clad form leaning on the gate at
                        White's, with the pale starlight glimmering on its upturned face.
                    As Miss Beresford had said it was to be, the dinner was served by the ladies,
                        who passed behind the chairs of the gentlemen, flitting nimbly back and
                        forth, receiving the viands from the hands of negro servants at the door of
                        an ante-room, and presenting them to the guests. It was a study worthy of an
                        artist's handling, that ample dining-room, with its curiously
                        carved panels of oak, its antique mahogany side-board, its ponderous brass
                        chandeliers and its high-backed chairs.  Even
                        Miss Crabb, as she actively busied herself with the part of the duties that
                        fell to her share, showed to picturesquely good effect amidst such foils to
                        her vivacious face and restless energy.
                    She was, by temperament and education, a person not likely to slight any
                        opportunity of furthering her own plans, no matter how great the breach of
                        small proprieties involved in the act. Even as she brightly and smartly
                        hurried hither and thither around the table, she was thinking of how her
                        experiences and observations here at the DeKay mansion would look in the
                        pages of a certain magazine, if only she could get it accepted, with a
                        number of picturesque, ultra Southern illustrations, and with her name
                        appended in full: Sara Annah Crabb. She imagined the stir such an event
                        would cause in Ringville, where as yet her genius was not especially
                        admired. She nursed a dream of sudden fame quite masculine and muscular, so
                        to speak, which would enable her to get even with the male editors who had
                        so often made sport of her prose and verse and even of her name. She was a
                        good girl, honest, conscientious and full of kindness, but she had had a
                        very hard struggle with life, and she was mightily ambitious. The adroitness
                        with which she now and then slipped from her pocket a little note-book and
                        pencil and the rapidity with which she jotted down certain memoranda of what
                        she saw or heard prevented much notice being given to the  incivility by either host or guests. Indeed
                        she had a quiet, semi-furtive celerity that, coupled with what may be called
                        an insignificance of manner, neutralized any vulgarity which otherwise would
                        have been observable to an offensive degree. Then, too, she talked so
                        rapidly and volubly that if one looked at her at all one must have been
                        wholly occupied with what her lips were doing. It was a wonder how she could
                        impress one as being a very quiet person and yet be skipping about and
                        talking like that.
                    She was a revelation to Moreton. She gave him a glimpse of American
                        intellectual life in the crude state exemplified from a feminine standpoint.
                        He had heard of and read of the strong-minded women of the western
                        continent, but here was the first instance that had come within his view.
                        Strange to say, he rather liked her. Her freedom was racy of the West, the
                        breezy, broad, grassy, fertile West, where, as he imagined, the buffaloes
                        ventured into the outskirts of the cities and where the men took their guns
                        with them to church. Perhaps he did not imagine this, after all, but the
                        spirit of it was in his thoughts. She seemed to him a fair exponent of
                        society molded by such surrounding. He felt with aesthetic nicety how,
                        turning from Miss Crabb's harmless inquisitiveness, chic and crude vim, the lines of feminine force and beauty, by
                        comparison, were graded through a thousand changes to reach such perfection
                        as he perceived in  Miss Noble. He even found
                        himself chivalrously attacking providence for showing such a difference in
                        bestowing gifts upon the two girls. Why should Miss Crabb be so tall and
                        angular and sallow, so lacking in the lines of grace, so sharp-voiced and
                        ugly? Why could she not have been rich, at least? Poor girl! she must carry
                        so much while Miss Noble had beauty, health, grace, riches.
                    The windows were open, allowing a gentle ripple of air through the room,
                        charged with a woodsy freshness and that grateful balm always present on
                        warm winter evenings in the south. Once when Mrs. Ransom leaned over
                        Reynolds' shoulder in performing some needed service, the loose end
                        of a simple ribbon at her throat was blown lightly against his cheek and he
                        caught the merest waft of violet perfume from the flowers on her breast. It
                        was a slight thing, but it was to him the sweetest part of the dinner.
                    Women appear to be little aware, as a rule, of the powerful influence they
                        may wield over men by their sweet negative qualities as well as by their
                        sweet positive ones. For instance, the absence of a high harsh voice is next
                        in value to the presence of a gentle and low one. A quiet, modest shyness of
                        manner may be apparent from the total absence of any angular self-assertion
                        rather than from the actual existence of the manner itself. Hence it is that
                        most women who fancy themselves strikingly attractive to men, are really
                        quite 
                        
                            It was a slight thing, but it was him the sweets part of the dinner
                                    Page 88.
                        
                         the reverse, whilst it is often the case that
                        the shy, sensitive woman who shrinks from self-display, wins admiration from
                        the other sex without possessing any positive qualities especially charming.
                        With the approach of Mrs. Ransom, a half-formed sense of satisfaction and
                        subtle delight crept into Reynolds' bosom, as if with the fragrance
                        of the flowers she wore he breathed in a rarer and more precious element
                        exhaled by her own flower-like nature. It is good for a man to be able to
                        keep undulled his susceptibleness to such delicate influences, for thereby
                        his nature enriches and sweetens itself. The crucial test of virility of the
                        highest order is that of its sensitiveness to the finest and purest demands
                        of woman's nature. The man's soul has lost its morning
                        freshness whose nerves do not tingle response to the least touch of the most
                        ethereal breath of feminine sweetness, sincerity and beauty, and he is a
                        brute who pauses to trace his susceptibility to some gross origin.
                    "It is quite charming to dine under such ministration,"
                        said Reynolds, while receiving some delicate dish from the steady little
                        hand, "but I should"
                    "No," she interrupted with a grave, sweet smile.
                        "do not say the rest. We think it quite fitting. My uncle at first
                        refused to have any ladies included in the party; but I insisted on having
                        one or two of my dearest friends, and it is agreed that we are not to be
                        considered as forming any part of the company."
                    
                    She passed on, without giving him any chance for further words. Beresford,
                        who sat opposite, begrudged every syllable she had uttered.
                    All around the table the conversation was of field sports, adventures with
                        dog and gun and prospects for the morrow's shooting. General DeKay
                        and Mr. Noble, as veterans, led the discussions, the banker giving fluent
                        and graphic accounts of his experiences in the Maine and Michigan woods, the
                        General responding with racy bits of adventure in the game regions of
                        Louisiana and Florida. Men who like field sports are, as a rule, earnest,
                        healthy, vivacious fellows, fond of good cheer, with a decided leaning
                        towards making the best of every thing. Such company as that around the
                        board at the DeKay mansion, was, therefore, one to enjoy to the full the
                        superb feast and all its attendant freedom from formality. The ladies
                        retired when the cigars came in, leaving General DeKay and Mr. Noble to test
                        some old brandy, while the younger men sipped a milder beverage, under the
                        white wreaths of Cuban tobacco smoke. Two or three negro men-servants had
                        quickly cleared the table, and now moved noiselessly about, or stood like
                        white-aproned ebon statues, gazing thirstily upon the sparkling glasses.
                    Meanwhile the ladies were having their own pleasant dinner in the breakfast
                        room, Miss Crabb entertaining them with a vivid account of some of her
                        experiences as a correspondent and editor. Her sketches had a  breadth and freedom, all the more fascinating
                        to the Southern part of her audience, on account of the impressions they
                        gave of a field of woman's labor unknown in the dreamy land of
                        cotton and sugarcane, magnolias and mocking-birds. Miss Crabb was very
                        earnest and sincere, deeply impressed with the importance and influence of
                        her profession, and her straight forward manner of talking, along with a
                        perfectly evident good-heatredness, won a peculiarly qualified admiration
                        and respect from the majority of her listeners. Her effect with Miss Noble
                        was quite different. The shrewd, wide-awake Northern girl knew very well how
                        purely a matter of business Miss Crabb was making of the whole affair, and
                        how like a dissecting-knife her pen would be. She sympathized with the young
                        journalist, however, and silently hoped that she might make a success of her
                        bold effort to penetrate to the inner heart of this old, exclusive Southern
                        social circle, the picturesque charm of which seemed to hover like an
                        atmosphere in the quaint, dingy, airy room.
                    All the doors and windows were open and the night breathed through the house,
                        bearing the pungency of the men's tobacco in faint traces to the
                        breakfast room, and presently the sound of a banjo along with the mellow,
                        barbaric voice of a negro singer, filled the place. There was almost
                        uproarious applause from many manly mouths. Uncle Mono was ending up the
                        feast with his favorite song:
                    
                    
                        "De raccoon am a cunnin' ting,
                        He rammel in de dahk,
                        Wid nuffin' 'tall in' to
                            'stu'b fie mind,
                        Tell he yer my 'coon-dog bahk!"
                    
                    He was a jolly-faced, jet black old fellow, with a great shock of grizzly
                        wool on his head, a comically flexible mouth, and dusky eyes that danced to
                        the rapid time of his music.
                    It was the merest chance that suggested Uncle Mono and his banjo, but if it
                        had been pre-arranged, as in a play, that his two or three humorous songs
                        and his one pathetic love-ditty should close the evening's
                        festivities, it would have been in accord with the highest art. The almost
                        rude yet wholly fascinating carvings on the time-stained panels of the
                        dining-room, seemed to especially favor the effect of such lyrical
                        savageness and grotesquerie.
                    The impression upon Moreton's mind was strange, almost weird. When
                        all was over and he was alone in his room, he leaned back in a chair, with
                        his feet thrust out of the open window, and gazed into the soft sky with a
                        haunting sense of how suddenly and far he had been removed from the glare
                        and show and polite tumult of his own world. It was all very fascinating,
                        this isolation and decay, these soft-tongued women, these knightly,
                        half-grave, half-hilarious men, this strain of music from Dahomey.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VIII.
                    WITH DOG AND GUN.
                    
                        "A westerly wind and a cloudy sky,
                        Proclaim it a hunting morning,"
                    
                    
                        SANG some one of the merry sportsmen, as the dogs were
                        looked in a gently rolling field, where, on one hand, the stiff, straggling
                        rows of dry cotton stalks ran down to the river bank, and on the other a
                        dreary fallow plat, overgrown with yellow sedge and clumps of bushes, spread
                        away to a dense wood. There was, in fact, a gentle breeze from the west, and
                        a thin veil of fleece clouds covered the sky. The morning appeared
                        propitious, every one was in high spirits.
                    The ladies, in an ample spring wagon, had been driven to an elevated point
                        whence they could have a sweeping view of the grounds to be shot over. A
                        field glass or two had been furnished them, so that distance need not
                        trouble their observations.
                    The men, in a long line and distant from each other not less than twenty
                        yards, walked slowly with the dogs running to and fro ahead of them.
                    The morning was balmy and warm, but not hot, with just a hint of dampness in
                        the air. Along the  river a low-hanging line of
                        gray fog was slowly fading away.
                    The ladies alighted from the wagon, with the help of the colored driver, and
                        disposed themselves in picturesque attitudes, their broad hats thrown back
                        and the wind fluttering their ribbons. Miss Noble and Miss Crabb were the
                        most interested, the latter making swift notes in a little red book.
                    Reynolds had quite forgotten his promise to Miss Noble about teaching her how
                        to shoot. He had, in fact, forgotten her as well. Moreton was on one side of
                        him, Beresford on the other. He felt the responsibility of having to shoot
                        between too such marksmen; but he was also keenly alive to the opportunity
                        it would give him for a display of his finest abilities as a sportsman. He
                        had resolved to lead the field if possible and he could scarcely have told
                        why, Mrs. Ransom had said something just before starting about Beresford
                        being considered the best shot present. This may have served as a stimulus.
                        She had not meant to be overheard by any gentleman of the party, her words
                        being for Miss Crabb'sear; but Reynolds did hear. Her voice had a
                        way of getting to him, as if it sought him of its own account. It was a very
                        sweet and musical voice, suggesting a reserve of strength and depth, with
                        just a suspicion in it of that vague sadness which lurked in her face.
                    Some hampers containing luncheon had been 
                        deposited under a tree by a little spring near where the ladies were posted,
                        and here, at the sound of a horn blown by the negro attendant, all were to
                        come at high noon.
                    The shooting began early, the first birds being pointed by one of General
                        DeKay's dogs. It was a fine strong bevy, flushed in a weedy swale.
                        Mr. Noble and the General both fired right and left, getting but one bird
                        each. The dogs dropped to shot and the game, well scattered, was marked down
                        in some low sedge two hundred yards further on. Two of the dogs were now
                        sent to retrieve the dead birds, which was scarcely done when another covey
                        was flushed by some of the parly, the birds taking almost the same flight as
                        the first. This was enough to warm the blood in any sportsman's
                        veins. The dogs fairly trembled with eagerness. The line was lengthened, the
                        shooters getting further apart so as to cover a wide territory,
                        Reresford's pointer was first to stand, Reynolds' setter,
                        a noble dog, promptly backing, and two birds were flushed. It was a fine
                        chance for a double shot, but Beresford missed with his first barrel and
                        killed with his second. Reynolds cut down the missed bird with his right and
                        killed another that flushed in front of him with his left. The shooting was
                        now begun in earnest, Beresford making a very difficult double a few steps
                        farther on, whilst Moreton distinguished himself by three straight misses.
                        General DeKay and Mr. Noble  were apparently
                        the most excited men in the field. The banker was too ready, shooting as
                        soon as his bird showed above cover, and the General was rather slow, poking
                        his gun after his game until it had flown out of certain range.
                    As fresh bevies were flushed and the birds scattered themselves over a wide
                        area, the sportsmen became separated, or hunted in twos and threes.
                    Miss Noble and MissCrabb watched this eager skirmish line through their
                        glasses, keeping up, meantime, a running discussion of the incidents as they
                        occurred, with true feminine lapses, now and then, into criticism of
                        whatever chanced to offend their notions of how a shoot should be conducted.
                    "I hope Mr. Reynolds will get outrageously beaten,"
                        exclaimed Miss Noble, "I really do."
                    "Why?" asked the editor.
                    "Because I do," was the response so perfectly intelligible
                        and satisfactory to all women.
                    "Oh," said Miss Crabb, "you have a grudge, have
                        you?"
                    "He promised me he would teach me how to shoot," Cordelia
                        laughingly responded, "and, like all men, he has not kept his
                        word."
                    "There! did you see that?" cried Miss Crabb still intently
                        surveying the distant shooters.
                    "No, what was it?"
                    "Mr, Reynolds killed a bird that Mr. Beresford had  missed and then turned and killed one that the
                        English gentlemanwhat's his name?had failed on! It was lovelyI like
                        that!"
                    "Mr. Moreton appears not to be having good luck," said
                        Cordelia, "but I fancy he's quite as good a shot as any of
                        them. My father says that any one will have unlucky days, no matter how good
                        a shot he may be."
                    "Mr. Reynolds hasn't missed yet, so far as I have
                        observed," said Miss Crabb. "There went down two more
                        birds before his gun. I think he has the best dog of any of them: it seems
                        to know just what he wants."
                    "How is my brother succeeding?" inquired Miss Beresford
                        from her seat on a wagon-cushion which she had laid on the ground and
                        covered with a gay shawl.
                    "Very finely, indeed," was Miss Crabb's ready
                        response. "The honors seem to lie between him and Mr. Reynolds.
                        They easily lead the rest."
                    "My brother never has been beaten, I believe," Miss
                        Beresford went on. "He is said to be the best shot in the
                        state."
                    "Begging your pardon," Miss Crabb responded, "it
                        really looks as if Mr. Reynolds would beat; he hasn't missed a shot
                        yet, and I don't think he's going to."
                    Miss Beresford smiled rather incredulously, as if her faith in her
                        brother's superiority could not so easily be shaken.
                    "I But they are all getting so far away that I can not  be sure any longer," continued the
                        observant editor in an apologizing tone.
                    Mrs. Ransom was seated some distance apart from the rest, busying herself
                        with pinning a wreath of bay leaves from material gathered off some small
                        trees by the spring.
                    The firing, scattered far and wide, came to the ears of these listeners,
                        softened down to a mere desultory booming, with now and then the quick
                        repetition that told of a double shot. Even Miss Crabb ceased her efforts to
                        follow the course of the merry sportsmen. She fell to work at her note-book
                        as if venting a bitter spite upon it and for a time her tongue rested from
                        its almost incessant labors.
                    Cordelia went to where Mrs. Ransom was busy with the bay leaves and sat down
                        on the dry ground beside her.
                    "A victor's crown," she said gayly. "So
                        you are going to reward the winner?"
                    "Oh no, I have been playing little girl. When I was a child I used
                        to make wreaths like this, only I have lost the ready knack I had
                        then."
                    "It's such a delightful thing to be a little
                        girl," said Cordelia, impulsively laying her hand on Mrs.
                        Ransom's arm and fixing her frank eyes upon her face. "I
                        wish I could have always staid about thirteenthat's the golden age,
                        I think, don't you?'
                    "I was a very happy little girl," replied Mrs. Ransom.  The evasiveness in her voice and the far away
                        look that came for a moment into her large blue eyes, were not observed by
                        Cordelia, who, with a buoyant, retrospective ring in her voice, exclaimed
                    "Oh, so was I, ever so happy. There never was any one who had so
                        delightful a time. It was so easy to be happy then."
                    "You don't look very sad, even now," said Mrs.
                        Ransom, wholly recovering her sweet, half-sad smile.
                    Cordelia laughed merrily.
                    "One can't always tell what a world of trouble a face like
                        mine may mask," she replied in her lightest way, but it gave her a
                        real pang the next moment, recollecting Mrs. Ransom's bitter
                        experience. She picked up the wreath, which was now finished, and put it on
                        her head. It gave to her plump, joyous face an air so free, fresh and almost
                        rustic, that one might have mistaken her for a Western farmer's
                        daughter. Mrs. Ransom looked at her for a moment, and then on a sudden
                        impulse, put a hand on either glowing cheek, and drawing her forward, kissed
                        her again and again.
                    "I hope your dear, sweet face will never be more of a mask than it
                        is now," she said. "You blush as if my kiss had
                        been"
                    "Had been sour!" interrupted Cordelia with a ringing laugh.
                    Meantime the men were having what is called glorious sport. The dogs, now
                        thoroughly warmed with  their work, were
                        behaving their best. It was a pleasing thing to see them consciously
                        competing with each other, carefully beating back and forth in front of
                        their masters, allowing no spot of ground to go unexamined, promptly
                        standing or backing or dropping to shot, eagerly watching each
                        other's movements and taking quick advantage of every favoring
                        accident of ground-surface or of cover. Each dog took evident delight in
                        seeing a bird, flushed from his point, killed by his master. A missed quail
                        brought as much chagrin to dog as to sportsman.
                    Some of the party, in following the flight of the bevies, reached a country
                        cut up by shallow ravines and gulches leading down to the river and filled
                        with a dense tangle of small trees and matted vines. Here the shooting was
                        quite difficult and exciting, and both sportsmen and dogs were taxed to the
                        utmost of their skill; for it was impossible to know where a bird would
                        flush or what direction its flight would take. Mr. Noble was peculiarly
                        suited to this sort of thing. He was in his clement where the cover was
                        thickest and the swiftest action required. He displayed his nimbleness and
                        readiness to good effect snap-shooting, as the birds whirred out of the
                        dense cover to turn into it again, showing themselves for the merest point
                        of time. He and Reynolds chanced to get together towards noon in a place
                        where to kill a bird required almost electrical quickness. Reynolds rarely
                        refused a shot and always  killed. His
                        movements did not appear surprisingly swift, but the gun always got to his
                        shoulder in time. He did not snap-shoot, as the word goes: his aim was
                        obtained with the promptness, celerity and certainty of a mechanical effect.
                        Only four times during the sport did he fail to bring down his game, and
                        every bird of fifty shot at was hit. But as a true sportsman, he was ready
                        to yield the palm to the highest achievement, and while he felt a secret
                        satisfaction in knowing that he had beaten Beresford, he took even keener
                        pleasure in the victory of his dog. The noble animal had performed a feat in
                        the presence of Beresford, Mr. Noble, Moreton and General DeKay, that proved
                        him a king of dogs.
                    "I'll give you a thousand dollars cash for him!"
                        exclaimed the banker excitedly.
                    The entire party broke forth with hearty applause.
                    It came about as follows: The dog had been sent into some weeds by Moreton to
                        retrieve a dead bird, which he promptly did. It was as he was returning,
                        with the game in his mouth, and leaping clear above the weed-tops, as was
                        his habit, that he suddenly, at the highest point of a bound, turned his
                        head half about, and stiffened himself in mid-air, on the scent of another
                        bird. He struck the ground standing staunchly, his eyes fixed, his feet
                        slightly spread, his back and tail on a line. The sportsmen could hardly
                        believe it a genuine point; but when the bird was flushed and killed,  they stood for a moment looking at the
                        sensitive thorough-bred, with that flawless admiration which men reserve for
                        beautiful women and sure-nosed dogs; then they all applauded.
                    Beresford felt defeated at every point, and in his heart a premonition of
                        failure began to ferment. A few days ago he had met Agnes Ransom at his
                        father's house in Montgomery, and had fallen a prey to her gentle
                        voice and grave, sweet face. Since then she had been constantly in his mind,
                        her influence growing upon him by force of memory, some new grace adding
                        itself to the impression, as each hour recalled a word, a smile or a glance
                        unconsciously treasured by him. Now it all seemed slipping away. It is one
                        of the most natural of mental operations, this swift reaching forward to
                        grasp an evil before it is more than vaguely threatened. We call it
                        foreboding: it may be the last refinement of logic. Beresford kept to
                        himself the rest of the morning, rather gloomily borrowing of the future.
                        Something told him that Agnes Ransom and Reynolds were going to be lovers.
                        His enthusiasm flagged and he shot with less than his usual care. On the
                        contrary, Reynolds seemed to be attended by the god of good luck; every
                        chance seemed to favor him. His self-confidence never once deserted him. He
                        too was borrowing of the future, and what he borrowed was very sweet. Deep
                        in his heart nestled the precious belief that Mrs. Ransom had
                        involuntarilynay, unconsciously  responded to
                        his interest in her. This gave him nerve and alertness and force. When he
                        would flush a bird, the loud hum of its wings and the bullet-like rapidity
                        of its flight did not disturb his thought or his vision. He threw up his gun
                        with a promptness and self-possession that insured a perfect aim. When he
                        fired the result was a thoroughly fine, clean shot, stopping the game dead
                        in mid-air, so that it fell without a flutter. Yet all the time his dream
                        went on.
                    At about half-past twelve the horn blew loud and long from the place where
                        the ladies had been stationed with the luncheon. Most of the shooters were
                        loth to leave off the exciting sport, even though the stirrings of hunger
                        began to be importunate. The mellow notes of invitation fancifully executed
                        by the negro "bugler" had nothing very insistent in them.
                        It was a long while before the party began to straggle back. Reynolds was
                        first to reach the little grove above the spring near where the ladies had
                        been waiting and watching. He strode swiftly along with his gun across his
                        shoulder, his dogs following at his heels. A small, fancifully twisted tuft
                        of mistletoe that he bore in his left hand was heavy with milk-white berries
                        and waxen green leaves. His broad-brimmed hat was far back on his head,
                        leaving his swarthy face unshaded. He had almost touched Mrs. Ransom before
                        he saw her where she sat under a little pine tree with her hands listlessly
                        crossed in her lap, her head uncovered and her  dark hair gleaming in strong contrast with the almost colorless fairness
                        of her face. He started perceptibly on discovering her, but a smile came
                        over his face, as he bowed and said:
                    "A charmingly airy place you have: may I join you? I am really quite
                        tired."
                    "Certainly, there's ample room," she
                        half-hesitatingly replied, a little color slowly warming her cheeks,
                        "but I believe the luncheon is spread and you must be
                        hungry."
                    "No, I'd rather rest. The party is scattered in every
                        direction; it will be some time before all are in. What a wide view from
                        herecould you see us shooting?"
                    "Yes, that is Miss Crabb and Miss Noble couldbut really I did not
                        look. It frightens me to see a gun fired. It is a silly weakness that I
                        can't overcome."
                    He had thrown aside upon the ground his old-fashioned game-bag stuffed with
                        the dead birds, and laid his gun across it. He sat down a little way from
                        her, in a half-reclining position, resting the weight of his heavy shoulders
                        on one elbow.
                    "I never before saw quails so numerous, I believe," he
                        said, twirling the spray of mistletoe and looking at, his favorite dog which
                        had crouched panting before him. "We have had a fine
                        morning's shoot."
                    "I am very glad. My uncle would have been so disappointed if you had
                        failed to find birds," she responded, her voice, so sweet, so
                        peculiarly artless and tender.
                    
                    "He is a fervent sportsman," she continued, "and
                        sets great store by his annual shooting party. Last year the rain interfered
                        and he was terribly put out about it"
                    "He certainly knows how to manage an affair like this,"
                        Reynolds said, "I never saw any thing so perfectly planned and
                        executed. We found the birds at once and have been shooting ever since.
                        Nothing could have been better."
                    He carelessly took up her hat, which lay within easy reach of him, and thrust
                        the stem of the mistletoe spray behind the broad band of ribbon that
                        encircled the crown. It was a cold looking cluster.
                    "Not a bad bit of decoration, is it?" he smilingly
                        inquired. "It is the most peculiar and beautiful sprig of mistletoe
                        I ever saw. See how the smaller stems have grown around each other in
                        fanciful twists."
                    She made a quick, suddenly-arrested movement, as if to snatch away the
                        frigid-looking winter cluster, then glancing up into his face, simply said:
                    "The hat is not of a kind to bear much embellishment."
                    He appeared not to hear her. In fact he did not hear her, or if he did it was
                        merely her voice, not her words. The relaxation from the physical exercise
                        and mental excitement of the sport was so sweetly supplemented by the
                        influence of Mrs. Ransom's gentle presence that he fell into a mood
                        as dreamy and  tender as the air and sunshine
                        around him. Some vague stimulus was affecting his nerves and blood,
                        suffusing his brain with a happiness as precious as it was undefinable. Like
                        the effect of rare wine, this sudden mood seemed to be connected in some way
                        with evil, as if it were too delicious not to have some after-taste of the
                        hidden poison it contained. He knew and he did not know what it was that,
                        like a skulking serpent, shadowy and hideously menacing on account of its
                        uncertain proportions as well as on account of its venomous nature, darted
                        now and again through his dream. Mrs. Ransom, as if in some way touched with
                        the subtile essence of his mood, looked at him and felt a little premonition
                        of some new experience in store for her. At this moment she and Reynolds
                        were as detached from all the rest of the world as if they had been the only
                        inhabitants of an undiscovered Island. They were aware of this and for a few
                        moments reveled in the fascination of the experience. Somewhere in the
                        conscience of each an ill-defined protest against the future stirred
                        uneasily.
                    Reynolds was first to recover himself. Clearing his mind, as if with a wave
                        of the hand, he held the hat towards her with a careless movement.
                    "Put it on and let me see how it will look," he said.
                        "I pride myself in my ability to trim hats,"
                    If she had a mind to be offended she quickly changed. His smile was so frank
                        and his eyes so bold and honest 
                        
                            "You are lovely when you look like that." Page 107.
                        
                         that it was impossible for her to suspect him
                        or to refuse his light request. But she could not keep a pink flush from
                        rising into her checks, and her lips glowed like cherries. He looked calmly
                        at her for a moment, then in a perfectly earnest way said:
                    "I like it, it becomes you: please let it stay, will you? You are
                        lovely when you look like that."
                    His eyes were fixed upon hers with a deep and tender meaning. Despite herself
                        her heart leaped violently and she grew pale. In her confusion she arose. He
                        saw the change come over her face and sprang hastily to his feet.
                    "I hope I have not offended you, you are not" he earnestly
                        began.
                    She interrupted him with a little laugh.
                    "Nothing so serious as that," she lightly exclaimed, waving
                        one fair hand. "It is time for us to be looking after the
                        luncheon."
                    She stooped and patted the head of one of the dogs. The rest of the sportsmen
                        came straggling up the incline from the fields, one of them singing a gay
                        hunting carol.
                    Reynolds picked up his bag and gun. There was a glow in his eyes and a hot
                        tingle in his veins. He looked at the lithe, graceful form, and sweet,
                        earnest face of the young woman, as at an inestimable treasure. The flush
                        had returned to her cheeks and lips, though she had struggled hard to
                        overcome this incomprehensible emotion.
                    
                    "Why can't we stay here a little longer?" he
                        asked, almost with vehemence. "I was enjoying it so much.
                        There's no dire necessity for going, just at this moment, is
                        there?"
                    She fixed her eyes on his for a second, then lowered them and turned half
                        away. It was a mere glance, a flash, but it was an involuntary confession
                        that she understood his feelings and did not dare to give them opportunity.
                        What further meaning it conveyed he could only wish he knew.
                    "Yonder is uncle," she murmured. "Poor old man, I
                        know he's tired!" and she almost ran to meet General
                        DeKay.
                    Reynolds watched her go tripping down the gentle slope, through the stunted
                        wire grass and tufts of sedge, wearing on her hat his spray of mistletoe.
                        She looked like a mere girl, slim and svelt, whose
                        movements were as light and free as the wind. She had won over his dog and
                        it trotted away beside her, looking up into her face. He felt his heart
                        throbbing heavily, and something like a tender mist gathered in his eyes. An
                        almost uncontrollable desire to go swiftly after her and clasp her in his
                        arms took possession of him. Would he ever get so near her again? Would she
                        ever again give him a look like that which was now pictured so vividly in
                        his memory? Ah, those serious, tender, earnest eyes, that low, gentle,
                        haunting voice! Would those sweet, half-sad lips ever meet his with a kiss
                        of  unquenchable love? He stood there actually
                        trembling with the stress of his suddenly-generated emotions, an underflow
                        of passion showing in his bronzed face.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IX.
                    LUNCHEON AL FRESCO.
                    
                        IT is one of the distinctive features of life in our
                        Southern States, this keen pursuit and enjoyment of field sports. The
                        climate favors every thing of the sort, and the tastes of the people, as
                        well as the leisure which has always been their inheritance, keep alive a
                        zest for out-door accomplishments, amongst which shooting is accorded the
                        chief place. It has sometimes been hinted that, so zealous are they in this
                        direction, if small game chances to be scarce, they will on occasion shoot
                        at each other, in order not to fail of diligent practice; but no man who has
                        ever enjoyed the cordial hospitality and generous freedom of a low-country
                        plantation in the quail season, will be likely to recall any but the
                        charmingest recollections of the occasion. The open season for small game
                        comes there in the most delightful part of the year, when to be out of doors
                        is, of itself, as exhilarating as a surf-bath in summer. From the old,
                        wide-winged, airy plantation house and its profuse cheer and comfort, one
                        goes forth into fields, basking in more than Indian-summer dreaminess and
                        warmth. The air is fresh and pungent, the 
                        ground is dry, the prospect is liberal and inviting. There is no sense of
                        limitation to the rambler's operations; he feels that, like the
                        poet's brook, he can go on forever.
                    By gentlemen of robust tastes, such entertainment as that afforded by General
                        DeKay's shooting-party is of a kind greatly enjoyed and rarely
                        obtainable. The game had been carefully preserved and the shooting area was
                        practically unlimited, which, without the aid of perfect weather and a rare
                        hospitality, would have made the mere liberty to shoot joy enough for the
                        enthusiastic sportsmen. But General DeKay and his wife knew how to entertain
                        in that off-hand, natural way which is peculiarly gratifying to men bent on
                        such vigorous pleasures as field-sports give. Substantial viands, good wine,
                        fine tobacco and freedom from conventional absurdities around the board were
                        supplemented by such cordial watchfulness of their needs as made the guests
                        feel "at home" indeed.
                    The luncheon spread on a smooth plat by the spring and presided over by Mrs.
                        Ransom was discussed in no mincing mood by the quail-shooters, while they
                        talked over the excellent sport of the morning with frequent eulogies of
                        their host's superior manner of planning and directing it.
                    Reynolds' shooting was heartily praised, and Ruby, his dog, got such
                        eloquent tributes as never before fell to an unsuspecting setter. Miss Crabb
                        could not  refrain from openly making notes,
                        nor could she repress a desire to ask questions. She was embarrassed with
                        the riches of material that fell about her. She had visions of a letter that
                        should make both her and her paper famous.
                    Physically as well as mentally. Miss Crabb was in strong contrast with the
                        rest of the company; her voice, too, her pronunciation, her method of
                        intonation, and, indeed, all the salients of her personality, cut with an
                        almost barbaric eclat through this smooth social
                        atmosphere. At every turn she made herself felt as a foreign quantity. She
                        was obviously busy; she had a purpose, an ulterior object; she was plying a
                        trade, and a trade, by the way, of which she was very proud. So nearly as
                        words may express it, she was pleasingly disagreeable. Her companions were
                        aware that she aroused in them a dual sentiment wherein pity was scarcely
                        separated from a low grade of admiration. That she was a novice in newspaper
                        work could be detected by the most unskillful observer, and like all
                        novices, she was an enthusiast. Evidently she regarded gathering notes as
                        the chief purpose of life for which she would make any sacrifice. She was
                        nervous and fussy, quick, keen, ready, anxious to make every thing serve her
                        a turn. Hearing the gentlemen discussing the interesting features of the
                        morning's sport, she plied them with such a volley of questions as
                        taxed their agility to answer. Meantime  her
                        pencil danced recklessly over the pages of the little red book. The prospect
                        of doing something unique intoxicated her and made her enunciation still
                        more rapid. Reynolds' shooting and the splendid achievement of his
                        dog were to be the chief points of her report and she spared no pains to get
                        the details in full. She looked upon men and men's doings as of
                        much more importance and interest than women and women's acts; she
                        was not quite sure that even dogs were not rated by the world as rather more
                        noticeable than women. Secretly she harbored an ambition to show the world
                        what a woman could do if once she had got clear of the meshes of feminine
                        restraints. Why shouldn't she report a quail-shoot just as well as
                        a man? At all events, she was bound to try, and so she went nimbly at the
                        task.
                    "It's unusual, isn't it?" she inquired of
                        Mr. Tom Boardman, a merry youth just graduated from a Tennessee college, and
                        brim full of sport-lingo, "It's unusual, isn't
                        it, for a dog to stiffen in the air on a point with a bird in its
                        mouth?"
                    She said this all so glibly and earnestly, with a slight sideways turn of her
                        head, that the youth came near choking over his effort to smother a wild
                        laugh.
                    "Very unusual," he answered in a suffering tone,
                        "very.
                    She made some rapid notes in the red book. Then  looking up, with the end of the pencil against her teeth, said:
                    "And he struck the ground, stanch on his nose, at a half-turn; is
                        that right?"
                    Mr. Tom Boardman's eyes suddenly widened and then his nerve failed
                        him. He laughed uproariously in spite of himself; but to his great relief
                        Miss Crabb did not take offense. She joined him quite heartily in his
                        merriment at her own expense.
                    "It's very interesting," she added, "and
                        I must get it right. Give it to me slowly in technical language, so that I
                        can take it down. I guess I got some of the terms mixedabsurdly, too,
                        didn't I?"
                    He caught a glimpse, so to speak, of the girl's charming kindness of
                        heart and evident sincerity of purpose, which instantly won upon him. He
                        changed without appearing to change and took great pains to give her the
                        information she desired, volunteering besides to detail a number of the most
                        striking incidents of the morning.
                    "Why shouldn't you try writing a novel and weave into it
                        something of this sort?" he asked. "It seems to me that
                        you might make a lively story of such materials as you are
                        gathering."
                    "And if I should write one," she answered, her face growing
                        serious, "I couldn't get it printed."
                    "Why?"
                    "Oh, the publishers don't want provincial stories, they are
                        not in vogue now."
                    
                    "Ah, well, but make it so fresh and true to life and so breezy and
                        interesting generally, that the publishers couldn't refuse. I know
                        you could."
                    "That's a kind compliment, but I'm too well posted
                        to be carried away. A novel, now-a-days, must be what they call analytical,
                        a fine-spun exemplification of an author's power to lay bare the
                        motives of his characters in doing what they do. Plots are abolished,
                        stories ignored."
                    "But I like stories, genuine love-stories, with a smack of adventure
                        and lots of incidents," he earnestly exclaimed.
                        "What's the interest in all this long-drawn, tedious
                        nonsense about a common-place American young woman's reasons for
                        refusing an English nobleman, or about why a European patrician of doubtful
                        morals could not condescend to marry a good, free, sweet American
                        girl?"
                    Miss Crabb smiled and shook her head.
                    "But the critics have decided against you, and what are you going to
                        do about it? I, too, like stories, and so, I think, does almost every body,
                        but they are out of fashion. All the thrifty writers go in for the
                        analytical novel now. It don't make much difference what your
                        characters do, so that you are able to dissect their motives for so
                        doing."
                    She sighed regretfully as she ended, as if the subject had awakened sad
                        memories.
                    "Well, if I were a critic," said he, with a light laugh,
                             "I'd give your story a
                        genuine indorsement of authority."
                    "No, you wouldn't," she responded. "You
                        re a man and you'd do as the rest. You'd say: Poor girl,
                        she'd better be washing dishes or teaching school."
                    Boardman laughed.
                    Beresford saw the mistletoe spray in Mrs. Ransom's hat, and, not
                        dreaming of any one else than herself having put it there, asked where she
                        had got it.
                    "Mr. Reynolds brought it from somewhere in his rambles this
                        morning," she said. She took off her hat and plucked out the sprig,
                        but after hesitating a moment, put it back again.
                    Beresford received the blow bravely, and, like the true gentleman that he
                        was, accepted the situation without apparent embarrassment. Love at first
                        sight is a fruit of warm climates, and passionate souls seize it
                        rapturously; but love, even under a Southern sky, sometimes turns to ashes
                        before the swiftest lips may reach it.
                    "Mr. Reynolds has won the victory to-day," he said,
                        "and under the ancient rules has the right to choose where he will
                        have the crown rest. You wear it like a queen."
                    There was something behind his light manner and lighter words that touched
                        her. She did not rightly construe him, guessing that he was simply striving
                        to hide the chagrin of his first defeat in the field.
                    
                    "Victor to-day, vanquished to-morrow," was her quick
                        rejoinder; "there is a good deal of mere chance in such things, I
                        suppose. No doubt to-day was one of your unlucky days.''
                    ``Yes, but I must admit that I never have equaled Mr, Reynolds'
                        score of this morning, so I can not get any comfort out of your gracious
                        suggestion,'' he frankly exclaimed. ``He is a better shot
                        than Ithe best I ever saw.''
                    ``My uncle says so too,'' she responded, ``and he is
                        enthusiastic about the dog, the one that did the fine
                        act.''
                    ``Superb, superb!'' he rejoined with emphasis. ``I would
                        put that dog against the whole world of dogs.'' He found a
                        sort of comfort in praising his rival and his rival's dog. It was a
                        species of self-torture that deadened for the time the pain of his defeat,
                    Miss Beresford, who was so situated that she could not avoid hearing this
                        conversation, glanced at her brother with a repressed resentment in her
                        eyes. She felt that he was not doing himself justice; that he was, in fact,
                        failing to assert himself as a true Beresford, a name that had never before
                        tamely accepted and acknowledged defeat
                    ``Give me your score, Mr. Beresford, please,'' said Miss
                        Crabb, coming forward with her book and pencil.
                    ``Thirty-three,'' he promptly answered. His
                        sister's face flushed with anger. She turned to him and said under
                        her breath:
                    
                    "She shall not do that she shall not publish it!"
                    "Pshaw!" he almost whispered, "don't
                        allow yourself to show any feeling. Don't make a scene.
                        Can't you feel the delicacy of my situation? Be quiet,
                        there's a good girl."
                    Miss Crabb had hurried owaytowhere Reynolds was seated. She was intent upon
                        getting the precise status of things.
                    "Oh, you are way ahead," she exclaimed, in her clear high
                        tones. Then she seized the wreath of bay leaves twined by Mrs. Ransom and
                        forthwith laid it upon his head.
                    "To the victor belongs the crown!" she added, laughing
                        merrily. "Sec, Mrs. Ransom, I've put your handiwork to
                        noble use!"
                    She was so innocently playful in her manner, that no one could deem her net a
                        rude one. It seemed almost fitting, at least permissible, in view of the
                        freedom of this little out-door convocation. But Reynolds lightly doffed the
                        circlet.
                    "I am too earnest a democrat to wear a crown of any sort with due
                        dignity," he laughingly said; "besides," he
                        added, "my dog is the hero, not I."
                    "Truth, every word of it!" cried Moreton, balancing a glass
                        of wine on the tips of his fingers. "Your tastes are most
                        commendably plebeian and proper. It Miss Crabb will but let me describe your
                        mountain  hermitage she can fully appreciate
                        your sturdy democracy.
                    "Don't do that, Moreton, if you love me; my cabin is my
                        castle and my sanctuary," Reynolds answered in mock earnestness.
                    It was an unlucky turn in the thoughtless conversation, for it sent a current
                        of uneasiness through the mind of Reynolds that made It very hard for him to
                        keep up his spirits to the level of the occasion. The mere mention of those
                        six years of mountain seclusion was enough to awaken a whole world of
                        distressing memories. Things known only to himself came up to darken his
                        mind. Miss Crabb's restless energy and journalistic enterprise
                        would not, however, allow him long to grope among his carefully hidden
                        secrets.
                    "Now a thought strikes me," she exclaimed, as if addressing
                        the entire company; "can any one here sketch the least bit in the
                        world? What a fresh and charming illustrated paper the material I am
                        collecting would make for one of the magazines, if I could get some truthful
                        and spirited sketches from which an illustrator could take his
                        cue!" She rolled the end of her pencil in her mouth and awaited an
                        answer.
                    "Mr. Reynolds is an artist," said Moreton with a sidelong
                        glance at his friend.
                    "Oh, I'm so glad! Won't you help me, Mr. Reynolds?
                        just a half dozen or so of striking local transcriptsa view of General
                        DeKay's house, a scene  or two from
                        the quail shoot, some character studies and"
                    "You overwhelm me," said Reynolds, his face actually
                        showing the truth of his assertion, "I never could trust myself to
                        undertake such a commission; and besides," he added with a tone of
                        suddenly discovered relief, "I have no sketching materials with
                        me."
                    Miss Crabb became thoughtful, tapping her forehead with the back of her
                        note-book. Mrs. Ransom came to the rescue with a request for her to help
                        pass coffee to the gentlemen. The negro attendant had brewed a pot of Java,
                        the aromatic fragrance of which had been for some minutes on the air.
                    It would, indeed, have been worth while for an artist to have caught the
                        impression of the scene just then. The men carelessly standing or sitting,
                        with the young women ministering and the dogs lounging idly around the
                        outskirts of the group; the soft atmosphere, the broad, airy landscape with
                        the green-fringed silvery river winding through the middle distance, the
                        slumberous quietude and the deep, dark forest rising yonder like a wall.
                    After coffee the gentlemen went aside to light pipes and cigars. The
                        afternoon was well advanced before General DeKay proposed going to the field
                        again. Now and then a quail had been heard whistling in the distance that
                        far-reaching, energetic call of a straggler to his scattered companions, A
                        momentarily freshening  breeze was fast
                        brushing from the sky the film of fleece clouds.
                    The ladies voted that thev were satisfied with what they had seen, wished the
                        sportsmen a merry afternoon and were driven back across the rustling sedge
                        fields to the old mansion.
                    Reynolds turned, after he had walked some distance, arid looked back. The
                        wagon containing the ladies was slowly trundling over a little swell in the
                        field. Mrs. Ransom's face was he thought, turned toward him.
                        Involuntarily he took off his hat and waved it in the air. Then he saw, or
                        imagined he saw, something white flutter a response from the group in the
                        wagon. This little incident cost him quite dear, for he failed to note, on
                        turning about, that his dogs had come to a stand in the weeds near by. A
                        quail sprang up from his very toes and whirred away quartering to his right,
                        going like a bullet. He fired and missed. Moreton took the bird on a cross
                        shot, stopping it beautifully.
                    Reynolds' dogs looked at him with a sneaking' leer in their
                        eyes, as if they felt the disgrace of their master.
                    "That's one debt paid!" Moreton cried.
                        "Credit me, will you?"
                    Reynolds felt no interest in the sport. His vision was introverted, his ears
                        were full of sweet sounds, his heart was beating time to the melody of his
                        day-dream. He went down by the river and lay upon an old mossy  drift log, against one end of which the light
                        current rippled sweetly. There was a windy rustle in the reeds and a broad,
                        washing murmur came from the water. He could see but a little distance along
                        the river surface either way, owing to a short bend, and the tall brakes on
                        the banks shut out all else save an occasional report from the guns of his
                        more enthusiastic companions. His dogs came and lay down near him, licking
                        their muscular legs and glossy sides, or nibbling at an occasional burr in
                        their hair So all the rest of the afternoon he did not fire a shot. It was
                        nearly sundown when he again climbed up the river-bank and turned towards
                        the house, with not a bird to show for the two or three hours spent with
                        dogs and gun. But what to him were the poor trophies of a quail-shoot, now
                        that his passionate nature was stirred to its depths with a love whose
                        fullness and intensity left no room for another feeling or thought? To be
                        near Agnes Ransom, to hear her voice, to gaze into her eyes, to bring the
                        whole force of his will and the fullest power of his eloquence to bear upon
                        her, to win her, to take her, to triumphantly hold her as his own, these
                        were the desires, the purposes surging about in his breast. He walked slowly
                        back towards the DeKay mansion, taking no heed of the beauties of earth or
                        sky. It was nothing to him that the low-hanging sun flung a glory over the
                        distant wood and touched the roof of the old house as if with a flame.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER X.
                    MILLY INQUIRES.
                    
                        ONE day in the time of Reynolds' absence at
                        General DcKay's, White came down to Birmingham in his cart and
                        Hilly insisted so strenuously on accompanying him, that she had her way.
                        This led to an adventure of a sort likely to impress itself deeply in the
                        mind of an unsophisticated girl of the mountains. She had given no especial
                        reason for wishing to visit the city, but White shrewdly guessed that her
                        desire to know something of the whereabouts of Reynolds was the motive
                        impelling her to so unusual an undertaking, for heretofore she had always
                        been very averse to goinginto Birmingham.
                    When they reached town White gave Milly a pittance of money and said:
                    "You go ter some store, Milly, an' buy ye some candy er a
                        apple er somethin' er other. When ye git tired er foolin'
                        cround ye kin go back ter the cyart an' stay ther' tell I
                        come."
                    She took the small pieces of silver without a word and allowed her father to
                        desert her. She suspected that ne meant to elective her and go off to some
                        gambling  den; but she did not care. Her
                        desires all centered in finding Reynolds or heating something about him.
                    She strolled about from place to place in the street, innocently staring into
                        men's faces and quite as innocently receiving, without shrinking,
                        such brutal leers and winks as certain of the bejeweled and over-dressed
                        loafers bestowed in return. She went into a store now and then, but, instead
                        of asking for any article of merchandise, she invariably propounded the
                        question:
                    "I wanted ter ax ef ye hed seed any thing o' John Reynolds
                        `bout this yer town?"
                    She spoke with such confiding earnestness of manner and with such an
                        appealing light in her eyes and such music in her voice, that she attracted
                        immediate attention from whomever she addressed. She received respectful
                        answers from the tradesmen. Nonc of them knew any thing about Reynolds, but
                        some of them, touched in a sweet, indefinite way by the inexpressible
                        half-lisp of her childish voice, and feeling the influence of her strange,
                        yearning face and graceful form, tried to draw her into conversation only to
                        discover that she became dumb so soon as she learned that they could not
                        give her what she sought. She turned solemnly away from each one and left
                        him to struggle out of the bewilderment she had unconsciously cast over his
                        mind.
                    With absolutely no knowledge of the difference 
                        between a reputable business street and a row of dives, she drifted here and
                        there until finally she met a man whom she at once recognized as Moreton,
                        although in fact he was a drummer for a wholesale liquor house of Atlanta.
                        She placed herself resolutely in his way, as he was about to pass her, and
                        said:
                    "Air ye the feller 'at come to our house thet
                        day?"
                    The man, a tall fellow, not unlike Moreton physically, looked down at this
                        pleasing apparition, and for want of better response, said:
                    "What day?"
                    "Thet air day' at hit rained so, an' ye tuck
                        dinner, an' staid all day. Don't ye `member?"
                    "Can't recollect you, sis: seems like I ought to though, by
                        George. What's your name?" He took hold of the brim of her
                        coarse hat and lifting it a little peeped under at her face, now suddenly
                        pink with blushing.
                    "Ye knowI'm Mr. White's girl, up ther'
                        wher' ye fotch the turkeys thet air rainy day."
                    "Oh, yes, I do recollect mighty well now, certainly. I fetched the
                        turkeys, yes. You are White's girl, I'm real glad to see
                        you. How's the folks?" said he, glibly.
                    "We're all well," responded Milly. "I
                        wushed to ax ye ef ye've seed John Reynolds lately."
                    "John ReynoldsJohn Reynolds, which John Reynolds do you
                        mean?" he inquired, with a deceptive show of having a dozen men of
                        that name in his mind.
                    
                    "Hit air Colonel Reynolds, es pap calls `im, an' he lives
                        at our house, an' ye know ye said he wer' yer
                        bes' frien' an' `at hewer' a grand
                        feller. Don't ye `member? Well, I wush to see him."
                    "Any thing of a furious rush about seeing him right offeh?'
                        He stooped low enough to look into her strange beautiful eyes.
                        "What do you want to see him about?"
                    She shrank uneasily and made no answer. Her pink lips quivered slightly, as a
                        flower's petals do when one breathes upon them. The man's
                        breath was foul with the fumes of whisky.
                    "Oh, if it's privateif it's a secret between
                        you," he resumed, "why, of course, I don't intend
                        to pry in; but as Reynolds and I are chums, I don't see why yeu
                        won't tell me."
                    "I wushed to see `im, that's all," she responded
                        in a plaintive, hesitating voice, putting a finger in her mouth and scraping
                        the toe of one coarse shoe back and forth on the ground.
                    "Oh, I guess that he's rather keeping sort o'
                        shady from you, just now," said the man with a brutal smile.
                        "He's got him another girl now, he's not caring
                        about seeing you very soon. I know what he's up to."
                    She shot a quick, almost wild look into his face, stared at him a moment and
                        then slowly inquired:
                    "What air yer name?"
                    He actually reddened with confusion, and was at a  loss what to answer. He saw that she had discovered his
                        deceit.
                    "I was just joking." he managed to say. "Never
                        mind my jokes. If you'll come with me I'll take you to
                        Reynolds. He's just down here a little ways. Come on, I'll
                        show you."
                    "Ye' r' not thet manye'
                        r'."
                    "Oh, that's nothing: I was just fooling with you.
                        Don't get mad. If you get mad you'll not have any luck.
                        Come on if you want to see Reynolds."
                    Her eyes had assumed a vague, distressed look and her lips quivered again.
                    "I wush ye'd go tell `im `at I wush he'd come on
                        home," she said, glancing uneasily around, as if afraid that sortie
                        one would approach.
                    "Guess you'd better go see him and surprise him like. He
                        won't be expecting you. He's just down here a little
                        piece. Come on, if you are going, I can't fool around all
                        day," the man urged, an ugly gleam getting into his eyes and his
                        face showing its coarsest lines.
                    "John wouldn't like hit ef I'd go ther'
                        wher' he is," she responded. "I hain't
                        got no business a goin' down ther'. I'd be
                        erbleeged ef ye'd tell `im"
                    "Tell him nothing," gruffly rejoined the man.
                        "Come along, it's not far, he'll be all right;
                        he's a good fellow and not going to make any fusscome on.
                        I'll stand between you and all dangercome on."
                    "I don't wanter go, an' I haint ergoin',
                        an' yemought  as well quit er
                        talkin'," she almost doggedly replied, taking a step or
                        two back from him. He followed her with a devilish leer in his eyes.
                    The street was a disreputable one and there was a narrow alley near where
                        they stood.
                    "He's not caring any thing about you now; you
                        needn't be so shy, I'm not going to do you any harm.
                        I'm the best friend you've got,"
                    Her strange, troubled face brightened a little.
                    "Then, ef ye'r' my friend," she quickly
                        said, "go an' tell `im at I wush he'd please kem
                        home."
                    The man laughed, looked at her quizzically for a time, and then in a tone,
                        half of vexation and half of amusement, said:
                    "Well, if you aren't the dangedest curiosity I ever saw!
                        You ought to travel with Barnum."
                    He gazed at her intently from head to foot, his face softening.
                    "You've no business trotting around loose in these
                        suburbs," he muttered, more to himself than to her, then quite solus he added: "She's cracked:
                        she's an idiot."
                    Her vague troubled look now appealed to the Other side of the man's
                        nature. "Do you know where you are? This is no place for you; where
                        do you live?" He put his inquiries in a voice so different from
                        that half-wheedling, half brutal one hitherto used, that she instantly
                        looked up with a gleam of trust in her eyes.
                    
                    
                        "W'y, ole Ben, air ye tired er
                            waiten'?" she exclaimed. Page
                        129.
                    
                    
                    "Where is your home?" he continued.
                    "Over to the tother side o' the mounting, at Mr.
                        White's," she frankly answered.
                    "Well, what are you doing down here among these saloons and dives?
                        Why don't you go home and stay with your mother? This is a bad
                        place for you."
                    "I hain't er feared," she said; "I er a
                        goin' down yer ter pap's cyart. Pap an' me we kem
                        ter town tergether. I jist stopped ter ask yer ef ye'd seed John,
                        that wer' all I keered about ye. Ye needn't er be a
                        frettin' yer-self `bout me."
                    The man chuckled in a puzzled way and walked on, muttering to himself
                        something about the "dangedest prettiest idiot" that he
                        ever saw. He looked back a time or two to watch Milly as she carelessly
                        strolled along, her petite form showing its lithe, wild grace, with every
                        movement and her wisp of yellowish hair shining under her hat and straying
                        down over the back of her loose cotton gown. His eyes had something of the
                        wistful glare with which a cat gazes at an escaped bird.
                    Milly found her father's cart gazes a tree in the outskirts of the
                        town, the one kind-eyed, long-horned little ox contentedly ruminating
                        between the rude shafts.
                    "W'y, ole Ben, air ye tired er waitin'?"
                        she exclaimed, patting the bony little fellow on the shoulder,
                        "we'll be er goin, soon es pap comes, won't we,
                        Ben?"
                    She climbed into the shallow box of the cart and sat down on its bottom with
                        her head thrown back so that  she could gaze
                        up through the tree-tops at the bright blue sky. A breeze, cool and sweet,
                        was stealing down from the mountains rustling the few dry leaves that still
                        clung to the branches overhead. She sang, in a thin childish falsetto,
                        snatches of the simple hymn-tunes she had caught from her parents; but she
                        got the words together in a meaningless confusion. Her conception of a song
                        of any sort rose no higher than a consciousness of the pleasing sounds of
                        the voice singing it.
                    For a long while she waited patiently, now and then glancing down the unkempt
                        street to see if her father had yet come in sight; then she stood up in the
                        cart and looked. It was growing late. The sun was slipping down behind the
                        mountains and a cooler breath crept through the valley.
                    "Well, Ben, hit air no use er stayin' yer any longer, I
                        `spec' at pap he air drunk. Git erp ther', Ben!"
                    She had gathered up the rope guiding line and the gad that lay in the box,
                        and as she finished speaking she tapped the ox and drove away, heading for
                        the road that led homeward. The thought that her father was drunk seemed not
                        to affect her in any way. She soon resumed her singing, and her aimless,
                        wistful gazing at the splendid Southern sky.
                    It was long after night-fall, but the moon was shining brightly, when Milly
                        drove up to the little front gate at home, and freeing Ben from his yoke and
                        shafts, turned  him loose to browse on the
                        mountain-side. Her mother met her at the door.
                    "Wher' air yer pap?" was the laconic inquiry
                    "Drunk, I `spec'," was the answer.
                    "An' er playin' of keerds," suggested
                        Mrs. White.
                    "Yes, I `spec'."
                    "Well, ef hit air seving up `at he air a playin'
                        ther' air sense to hit, fer he gin'rally wa'ms
                        their low down gam'lin' hides fer `em, w'en hit
                        air scving up `at he plays; but ef he goes in on ter any er them tother
                        games, he'll come home `ithout ary cent inter his pockets, mind
                        what I tell ye."
                    "I wush John `d come home, that's what I wush,"
                        murmured Milly, opening the door of Reynolds' room and going in to
                        wander listlessly about among his things. She touched his books, his
                        pencils, his brushes, his pen, and lingered about the easel upon which the
                        dog sketch still rested unfinished.
                    It was nearly midnight when White came in good-humoredly drunk, boasting of
                        another victory at "seving up with them air
                        gam'lers." His wife had gone to bed, but Hilly met him
                        with her usual quiet welcome and the formula expressing her predominant
                        "wush.'
                    "Ye needn't er be `spectin' the Colonel home for a
                        week, Milly," he said, as he lighted his pipe for a sobering smoke
                        before retiring; "fer he's gone away down on the
                        Arbam'River to Gen'l DcKay's to a
                        huntin' frolic with banker Noble an' his darter."
                    
                    Nothing save the very unusual amount of whisky he had been taking could have
                        induced White to say that and in such a tone. Milly looked at him in a
                        dazed, stupid way, her cherry underlip falling as if from the weight of the
                        information she had received.
                    "Do he go wuth them air fine folks?" she presently
                        inquired, in a dry, doleful voice.
                    "Ye'd think so ef ye'd see `im," he
                        answered. "He air high dinky davy along of the best of `em, I tell
                        ye. Him an' that feller Moreting what wer' here that rainy
                        day do scoot aroun' with them air silks an' ribbons
                        an' jew'lry alarmin' to the saints,"
                    Milly put her hands together and rested them on her head with their fingers
                        intertwined. She appeared to be considering some troublesome proposition.
                    "Do ye s'pose them folks `Il make fun of we-uns to
                        `im?"
                    White chuckled.
                    "I don't keer airy dam ef they do," he said,
                        contemptuously snapping his thumb and fingcn "Let `em sail
                        in."
                    "Well I wush `at they wouldn't. `Tain't none er
                        the'r business `bout how we-uns looks, no how," she
                        quickly replied. She looked over her faded cotton dress as she spoke, with a
                        hurried, dissatisfied glance. She had seen some wonderful dresses in
                        Birmingham.
                    "No, hit tain't the'r business, thet's a
                        fac', Milly," he responded, ramming his pipe with his
                        finger and  wagging his head.
                        "`Tain't store clo's, an'
                        jew'ls an' sich `at meks folks honest an'
                        `spectable, hits in yer, Milly, in yer," tapping his breast.
                        "We'r jest as good as any body, hain't we,
                        Milly?"
                    "Spec' so; dunno," she said, looking dully at him.
                    "I wush he had er staid yer an' kep' away
                        f'om down ther'."
                    "Hit air p'int blank no use er wushin' thet,
                        Milly," he slowly and firmly declared, "fur he air dead
                        sot onto `em an' he air a goin' wi' `em. In
                        fac', he air them sort er folks his own self, he air,
                        Milly."
                    The girl's eyes slowly brimmed with big tears, and without further
                        words she crept off to bed. White sat and smoked in a gloomy way for a long
                        while, his face showing more than usually gaunt and wrinkled in the dim
                        light of the flickering pine knots on the hearth. He shook his head from
                        time to time, as if dissatisfied with such results as his thoughts produced.
                        Once he spoke out rather fiercely.
                    "Hit air a dern shame! "he exclaimed, in a voice so fierce
                        and bitter that it awoke his wife. And yet he was too simple-minded to dream
                        of the worst. With the queer pride of the mountaineer, he was viewing the
                        predicament simply from a social standpoint.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XI.
                    DALLYING.
                    
                        THE quail-shoot, after the enthusiastic contest of the
                        first day, abated to a sort of desultory skirmish, each sportsman going into
                        the field as best suited his mood. The weather bred a languor, peculiarly
                        Southern and dreamy, which was aided by the quietude and isolation of the
                        place. The bustle and activity with which the sport had begun became
                        irregularly intermittent. Day after day the sky was serene and cloudless,
                        tinted with that cool, bird-egg blue, tender, delicate, transparent, against
                        which the lines of wood came out with a peculiar semi-tropical effect.
                        Nearly all the time there was a breeze, not the rollicking Northern wind
                        that whisks things about, but a fitful breath that palpitated lazily in the
                        tops of the dull old trees and stirred the vines and plants and dry, thin
                        grass in a fashion wholly indefinite and aimless. It was a luxury to idle
                        around in the shadowy nooks and corners of DeKay Place, where the spirit of
                        old times hovered like a vague, fascinating perfume. Life lost its rough
                        angles here, its outlines softening down to harmonize with the monotonous
                        equipoise of its surroundings. The river had the charm of all lowcountry  streams, a warm, slow, lagging motion, a look
                        of lapsing away into some strange, silent, unexplored region; its murmur was
                        a lingering, never quite ended good-by.
                    To Reynolds those were days of deep and sweet excitement into which now and
                        then darted a pang like a stab in the heart. He was with Agnes Ransom a
                        great deal. Shy and strangely limited in conversation as stie was, he yet
                        found her monosyllables and simplest phrases quite enough to hold him to her
                        side. She had not read a great deal of art and literature, she had but
                        fragmentary glimpses of knowledge, her round of life had been confined to a
                        small compass: still she seemed to have gathered a great deal, and a depth
                        rather than a width of experience was in some subtle way suggested by her
                        words and looks.
                    Moreton was unreservedly happy. Born sportsman as he was, it must have been a
                        genuine old-time love that made him prefer sitting on the veranda or on one
                        of the rustic benches with Miss Noble to following the pointers and setters
                        afield under the cloudless sky and over-warm beams of this waning,
                        low-country winter. He also allowed himself to become interested to a
                        certain extent in the plans of Miss Crabb, From his English point of view,
                        this eager, outspoken, persistent young woman, with her mingled air of
                        freshness, alertness and strangely hindered ambition, was a very novel and
                        interesting study. He recognized and respected  the worthiness and purity of her aims, whilst he could not keep from
                        regarding her doings with a curiosity little short of that with which he
                        would have observed the gambols of a rare species of monkey. He had not been
                        long enough in America to become indifferent to the oddities and sharp
                        salients of American character and our social contrasts and discords, nor
                        had his tastes resigned themselves to such breezy, democratic familiarity as
                        Miss Crabb insisted upon; but he was a good hater of shams, and her
                        genuineness appealed to him in its spirit if not in its manner. He walked
                        with her an hour back and forth on one of the long verandas, scarcely aware
                        how much he was promising when he agreed to make some sketches for her. He
                        had been, as the reader knows, an art-student once, but had lacked either
                        talent or industry or both, getting on no further than to become a clever
                        sketcher. Miss Crabb told him all she knew touching every subject she could
                        think of, even going so far as to give the details of the distressing tragic
                        circumstances under which Mrs. Ransom had been made a widow. It was a sad
                        story of a mere girl marrying a handsome, dashing, rather reckless youth,
                        who led her a romantic life for a time and finally deserted her, going away
                        to Texas where he had been killed in a street fight with a desperado at San
                        Antonio. Such stories were rather common in the South at one time. The first
                        decade after the close of the war was, in the Gulf  States, one of humiliation, nervousness, doubta decade that
                        soured and vitiated many young lives, making almost outlaws of youths who,
                        under a milder influence would have been good citizens, or at least,
                        harmless ones. Sudden poverty, the stagnation of agriculture and trade, the
                        ebbing of all commercial tides, the swift leveling of social eminences, and
                        the desperation that followed dire defeat, were supplemented and aggravated
                        by political annoyances of the most grievous nature. But the one
                        demoralizing element most active and potent was the prejudice, deep-seated
                        and woven into the very tissues of the Southern youth, against gaining a
                        livelihood by manual labor in plebeian employments. Of course it is no
                        wonder that this prejudice existed, indeed it would have been amazing if it
                        had not existed; but the result was the destruction of many young men who
                        really had in them the qualities that go, under ordinary circumstances, to
                        make up valuable citizens.
                    Herbert Ransom came of an honorable and once wealthy family at Pensacola,
                        Florida. He was one of what has been rather familiarly termed the
                        "first crop of young men since the war," which means that
                        during the war he was too young to be a soldier, and became a man soon after
                        its close. He was bright, handsome, vain, unprincipled, and yet he passed
                        current in society and married Agnes DeKay, a beautiful girl scarcely
                        sixteen, whose father, a brother of General DeKay, was  very poor, very proud and very old. For a time the young
                        people lived a sweet, idyllic sort of life on an old plantation near
                        Mariana, Florida; but Ransom's restless, rollicking nature would
                        not be confined to mere domestic quietude. He tried speculation in cotton
                        with just enough success to lead him swiftly to financial ruin. The
                        plantation was sold at a great sacrifice and Agnes had to return to her
                        father, while Ransom went to western Texas with the avowed purpose of
                        looking after some wild lands belonging to his father's estate, but
                        really with no hope of ever again seeing his wife. He had been gone nearly a
                        year when the news of his tragic death in a street fight in San Antonio
                        reached his relations in Pensacola. Soon after this Agnes' parents
                        died and she was left with an income barely sufficient to support her. She
                        had no children, and, with a widowed aunt, she lived in the old family
                        homestead at Pensacola, until General DeKay came and persuaded her to become
                        his adopted daughter. This meager outline of what seemed to Moreton a most
                        pathetic story, fell glibly from the lips of Miss Crabb, along with sundry
                        shrewd strictures upon social laws that render women so powerless to
                        struggle with adversity and neglect.
                    "When a woman gets married," she observed, "she
                        becomes helpless. She plunges into the gulf of matrimony with a mill-stone
                        at her neck, so that she may be sure to disappear utterly. If she ever again
                        comes  to the surface it is but to air
                        troubles for which there is no cure."
                    "If that is the case," said Moreton, "if I were a
                        woman I should try and not marry."
                    Miss Crabb laughed.
                    "Oh, I presume there will always be a majority of fools among
                        us," she replied. "Silly girls and restless spinsters,
                        ready to be martyred for the mere romance of the thing; but you know, as
                        well as I, that this is an awfully one-sided world."
                    "Yes, but you women make it so, don't you know, by decoying
                        us over to your side, thus destroying the equilibrium. If we were the
                        antipodes of each other, now, this would be a gloriously balanced world! All
                        the sorrow-making material on one side and all the joy-bringers on the
                        other!"
                    "You are like the restyou won't condescend to sensibly
                        argue a question with a woman. You must go off into badinage, as if a woman
                        could not understand and enjoy cogent reasoning. I don't like
                        insincerity, Mr. Moreton."
                    "I beg a thousand pardons," he exclaimed. "I did
                        not mean to be insincereindeed, Miss Crabb, I was under the impression that
                        I was making myself quite entertaining, don't you know, I"
                    She laughed again, a clear, honest, prairie laugh, throwing back her head and
                        holding up one hand as if to ward off something.
                    
                    "Oh, it's the same thing over and over. Wherever I go men
                        look upon me as a sort of monstrosity at large by some accident, because I
                        travel alone, just as a man may, and because I attend to my business, just
                        as a man does. It's really funny sometimes; I overhear what they
                        say. They comment on me. `A cheeky old girl,' `a newspaper
                        crank,' `a stiff-minded female,' and `a meddling
                        nuisance,' are the delicate and friendly epithets applied to me by
                        men. One fellow at the Cincinnati convention called me `a bag of
                        gimlets' to my face."
                    "But then your absolute knowledge that the man was mistaken must
                        have ruined the point of his remark," said Moreton.
                        "Conscious innocence is an impenetrable shield."
                    She looked up at him with a flash of momentary anger in her eyes, then
                        laughing again she said:
                    "Oh, go on, I'm used to it, and, besides, I can't
                        afford to quarrel with you until I have your sketches in hand; you must make the sketches, Mr. Moreton: they will be
                        invaluable to me. I want to get on in literature, and the only way in which
                        I can do that is to get into the great illustrated magazines: they are the
                        highways to fame." There was a hungry, almost greedy ring to her
                        voice, as if her longing for literary recognition were rooted in her heart.
                        Moreton fancied that her lips quivered as she spoke. Her manner touched his
                        sympathy.
                    
                    "You'll get on fast enough, Miss Crabb," he
                        quickly said; "your energy and persistence and your capacity for
                        work will take you through, never fear." It was the best he could
                        think of, though he felt its utter inadequacy to her fancied needs. As he
                        looked down upon her his rather heavy, thoroughly English face wore a very
                        kindly expression.
                    "But you don't know, Mr. Moreton, you can't
                        imagine what a hard time I have; how many ugly obstacles men put in my way,
                        simply because I am a woman. I don't see why they do, but they do.
                        It's awful sometimes."
                    "They are brutes, they ought to be punched, don't you
                        know," he blurted; "they deserve no recognition by
                        gentlemen."
                    "Yes, but they do get recognition," she
                        replied, half-mournfully. "They drink and smoke and swear
                        themselves into prominence in every walk of lifeinto fame, fortune,
                        and"
                    "Oh, not so bad as that, I hope," he interposed.
                        "Don't be discouraged. George Eliot and Georges Sand
                        and"
                    "They are not American women," she interrupted in turn,
                        "and they have never tried editing a country newspaper or writing
                        for a New York magazine. They were rich, or had influential friends, or made
                        people believe they were men."
                    "Well, suppose you try adopting a masculine pseudonym, you
                        might"
                    
                    "Never!" she exclaimed, with a little stamp of the foot.
                        "Never! I shall win my way as a woman or not at all."
                    Moreton was beginning to comprehend, in a measure, the really pathetic
                        hopelessness of Miss Crabb's intellectual predicament. To his mind
                        she appeared a heroine with a self-imposed task quite as great as that of
                        Joan of Arc. Like Joan, she must at last be man's victim. He could
                        see the stake set and the fagots heaped for her already. It now seemed a
                        mighty blessing of providence that she was not beautiful, that she was
                        positively ugly and not at all likely to attract men. He had the English
                        admiration for pluck and he felt a great desire to help her; but there was
                        no way. Evidently she did not possess any genius and was only gifted with a
                        shrewd, quick mind and a hungry imagination. She was mistaking notoriety for
                        just fame and was deluding herself with the belief that her burning desire
                        for success was proof positive of her power to succeed. Nevertheless her
                        attitude was heroic and he wished her a better fate than was sure to befall
                        her.
                    "But you must not commit the folly of setting yourself against
                        men," he presently said, his voice taking on a persuasive tone;
                        "you must recognize their power and the necessity of winning their
                        confidence and help."
                    "I have tried that turn," she replied with a short  laugh that had a ring of derision in it,
                        "and it's no use. A woman must have beauty before she can
                        influence men. All the wisdom of Minerva could not have compassed what
                        Cleopatra's"
                    "Hold," cried Moreton, with an affectation of lightness
                        which he did not feel, "you are slandering my sex, or, at least, I
                        am an exception. Not that I don't admit the power of beauty, but
                        you put the rule too savagely, don't you know. Why, you really
                        frighten me with your suggestion of masculine depravity!"
                    She laughed and changed the subject. They continued walking to and fro and
                        chatting in a broken way with the sough of the wind and the swash of the
                        river filling up the spaces.
                    "Some day," she said, recurring to the subject always
                        uppermost in her mind, and turning to leave him, "some day my ship
                        will come in."
                    Moreton breathed freer when she was gone. Her state of ferment, of restless
                        effort, tired him.
                    Two or three hours later when he and Reynolds sat by a window of the
                        latter's room, smoking cigars, he said:
                    "Miss Crabb told me something a while ago that surprised and touched
                        me."
                    "Well, what was it?" inquired Reynolds, gazing dreamily out
                        into the brilliant, moonlit night. He had just been for an hour talking with
                        Mrs. Ransom and was now mentally going over again every word of  the charming conversation. He was in love, he
                        knew it, and was reveling in the luxury of it. Her sweet face and low, rich
                        voice, her quiet grace of manner, her slender, supple form and that
                        indescribable, mysterious half-sadness in her eyes and smile, had fired his
                        imagination and filled his blood with a gentle tumult. Never before had the
                        moon and stars and the grand expanse of heaven looked so lovely to him;
                        never had the world seemed so good; never had life seemed so precious. Being
                        in love is a trite thing, and may be going out of fashion, but it is worth
                        experiencing once, at least, in every lifetime, as a test of the
                        imagination, if for nothing else.
                    "She gave me an account of Mrs. Ransom's
                        troubles," said Moreton. "It seems that hers has been a
                        rather rough cruise."
                    Reynolds clamped his cigar between his teeth and looked up.
                    "I know, I know," he said, in a half-impatient voice.
                        "Her husband deserted her."
                    "And was murdered out on the Texas border," added Moreton.
                    "Murdered," said Reynolds, as if weighing the word.
                        "There has been a great deal of that sort of thing in
                        Texas."
                    "In this instance," Moreton went on, "I fancy that
                        the murder was all for the best. Poor little woman, how she must have
                        suffered under such treatment as  that young
                        villain gave her. Pity that all such fellows don't go to Texas and
                        get a hole bored through them!"
                    Reynolds smoked quite rapidly for a few seconds, with his eyelids nearly shut
                        together, a barely perceptible grayish pallor spreading over his cheeks.
                        Presently, in an even and steady, but very strange voice, he said:
                    "She is a lovely little woman, Moreton, a sweet, warm-hearted, true
                        and noble little woman. I love her, Moreton. I'm going to marry
                        her, if I can."
                    "Good!" exclaimed Moreton. "I'm glad to
                        hear that. She will just suit you, make you a charming wife. I hope
                        you'll find your way clear, old fellow."
                    For a time they both were silent, each thinking of his own love, and gazing
                        out into the almost blue-black depths of the star-sprinkled sky. A gentle
                        swashing sound came from the river along with the fragrance of pine-needles
                        and the odor of turpentine. Somewhere, seemingly at a vast distance, an owl
                        now and then laughed, as if from a sepulcher.
                    "My way seems clear enough," Reynolds at last said,
                        "if I can understand her; but she is an elusive little woman, shy
                        and incomprehensible at times."
                    Moreton laughed.
                    "They all are that wayit's a part of woman's
                        nature to be inexplicable, don't you know, deuced inexplicable. Now
                        there's that Miss Crabb: I never  saw
                        such an enigma. She's a man and a woman and a little school-girl,
                        all in one."
                    Reynolds got up from his chair and began walking to and fro, his head thrown
                        back, his hands clasped behind him. He frowned and pressed his lips over his
                        cigar so that deep furrows came on each side of his mouth.
                    "Being in love appears to render you gloomy," Moreton
                        lightly exclaimed, as he glanced into his friend's face.
                        "Love is like wine, it makes some men surly whilst it makes others
                        merry. Now I"
                    Reynolds waved his hand impatiently and said almost abruptly:
                    "If she really loved her husband, in the first place, it must have
                        been a dreadful ordeal she went through."
                    "Oh, she must have been very young, scarcely more than a
                        child," said Moreton, as if hurrying to relieve Reynolds, if he
                        could; "and I should think she has outgrown it in a great degree,
                        by this time. She seems quite cheerful and in superb health."
                    Reynolds turned as he came near the middle of the room, and facing Moreton,
                        appeared on the point of saying some momentous thing. A gloomy cloud of
                        excitement had settled on his countenance. His lips faltered at the point of
                        speech, and with a strange smile he resumed his pacing to and fro.
                        Moreton's eyes followed him with a look of puzzled interest.  Presently he laughed outright and exclaimed
                        chaffingly:
                    "You make me think of that little girl of White's when you
                        look like that, Reynolds. Your eyes are for all the world like hers, with
                        those mysterious sad shadows in them. What the deuce is the
                        matter?"
                    Reynolds' countenance changed abruptly; he essayed to laugh, but
                        there was no sincerity in the effort. He shook his head and answered:
                    "My head is all in a whirl and I believe I am excited; but you must
                        remember that I am hard hit and awfully in earnest." His attempt at
                        making light of his show of feeling was not more successful than his
                        laughter had been. He saw that Moreton felt its hollowness, and he made
                        haste to add: "It has always been thus with me. I am a creature of
                        extremes, a straw in the currents of passion."
                    From Moreton's rather phlegmatic point of view, this excitement was
                        something inexplicable. He saw no reasonable cause for it in the situation,
                        and his mind at once reverted to certain indications of a secret trouble
                        observable in Reynolds ever since their first meeting in Birmingham.
                        Naturally enough the rather strange home chosen by Reynolds amid the sterile
                        mountains and among the rude, uninteresting mountaineers, came up to
                        emphasize Moreton's suspicion that all was not well with his
                        friend.
                    "What especial current of passion is tossing you  just now, to render you so restless and
                        moody? Moreton demanded. "One would think you were meditating
                        something as dark as suicide or assassination."
                    "Oh, I'm all right; I don't mean to do any thing
                        diabolical, I'm too happy for that; give me another cigar, mine are
                        locked up in my bag." He pulled himself together as he spoke, and
                        laughed in a way so careless and natural that Moreton felt a sense of
                        disappointment at having inwardly to acknowledge himself baffled, if not
                        mistaken.
                    They smoked and talked until late, enjoying the lulling coolness of the night
                        air coming in at the open windows. Reynolds was exceedingly cheerful, and
                        when they separated for the night he said:
                    "If you have as sweet dreams as I expect to indulge in to-night,
                        tell me in the morning, will you? Good night."
                    But Moreton, who slept lightly, awoke now and then, and heard him walking to
                        and fro all the rest of the night.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XII.
                    A BIT OF LOVE MAKING.
                    
                        THE party at General DeKay's broke up gradually.
                        some of the sportsmen going away on the morning of the day following the
                        quail shoot, the rest taking their departure in groups or singly, as
                        business necessitated or a sense of propriety dictated. At last the Nobles,
                        the Beresfords, Miss Crabb, Reynolds and Moreton were the favored remnant,
                        lingering at the old plantation to enjoy, as long as possible, the sweets of
                        its almost arcadian life.
                    Notwithstanding the great change wrought by the war, the DeKays had been able
                        to hold on to a picturesque residuum of their former wealth and to keep up a
                        fair show of that hospitality which had once been almost unlimited. The
                        guests of the mansion felt the perfect freedom given them, and so the days
                        went by without a circumstance to hinder their enjoyment of every moment.
                    Uncle Mono was a source of great amusement to every body; his banjo, his
                        songs, his stories, his peculiar philosophy and that individuality of
                        thought and expression, so often exhibited by old negroes, making him
                        especially interesting to Moreton and Miss Crabb.  His life had been so saturated with slavery's
                        influences that freedom, coming to him after he had passed the meridian of
                        life, had not been able to change him much.
                    Along with his other gifts, Uncle Mono was a fortune-teller whose fame held
                        the admiration and the awe of all the negroes at highest strain. He could
                        tell when it was going to rain and when the wind was going to change as well
                        as he could predict the kind of sweetheart the future would bring to the
                        inquiring youth or maiden. In fact he was the seventh son of a seventh son,
                        and not a drop of white-man's blood ran in his veins.
                    "I's pyo' blood dahky f'om away
                        back," he was fond of saying. "None yo' yaller
                        niggah 'bout me. Nuffin' I 'spises mo'
                        `n one o' dese yer no' 'count clay-faced
                        merlatters. Steal! Dey des steal de sole of 'm yo' shoes!
                        No sah, I's pyo' blood dahky."
                    Sometimes, when the evening air chanced to be warm enough, the guests and the
                        household would assemble on one of the wide verandas and send for Uncle Mono
                        to play for them while the gentlemen smoked their pipes and cigars and the
                        ladies promenaded back and forth to the brisk tinkling of the banjo. They
                        all enjoyed the touch of old-time custom when a number of the plantation
                        negroes, young and old, crept up to within a respectful distance, looking on
                        and listening.
                    
                    The nights were superb, the splendor of stars or moon and sky adding an
                        almost weird sheen to the gray fields and silvery river. The pronounced
                        atmosphere of isolation which broods over all those large low-country
                        plantations gave to the guests at DeKay Place a comforting sense of liberty,
                        as if the restraints of conventional life had been dissolved and dissipated,
                        or had never come here.
                    Some swings had been made of huge muscadine vines brought from the woods and
                        suspended from the trees on the lawn. The young women, especially Miss Noble
                        and Miss Crabb, found swinging most exhilarating sport. Moreton watched
                        Cordelia as she oscillated, like a gay pendulum, in the soft night-light
                        under the dusky boughs, until his heart timed its beating with her
                        movements. He enjoyed every phase of this delightful subtropical episode in
                        his life. It did him good to see Reynolds returning to something like his
                        old-time youthful enthusiasm and cheerfulness.
                    Among them all it was silently noted how Mrs. Ransom and Reynolds were drawn
                        towards each other.
                    "Dunno 'bout dat big, dahk young ge'man
                        flyin' roun' de young missus no how," muttered
                        Uncle Mono to his colored companions; "seem lak mebbe she better
                        look sha'p 'bout 'im. He sort o'
                        'sterious lookin' young man anyhow."
                    Miss Crabb for some reason failed to win favor with the negroes. She was very
                        much interested in them  and tried hard to
                        study them; but her inquiring manner and insistent tones of voice did not
                        touch their warm African hearts. On the other hand, Miss Noble was a prime
                        favorite with them all.
                    "Bress dat sweet chile," said Uncle Mono, "she
                        jes' lak de ripe peach on de eend ob a limb, she sort o'
                        glimmer an' look too good fo' to pull off an' too
                        ripe fo' to let erlone."
                    "Dat same lak what de young boss f'om way off fink, I
                        'spec," ventured a colored listener. "He look at
                        'er 'mazin' sof' an' hongry
                        lak."
                    "Wha' yo' know 'bout it?"
                        stormed Uncle Mono. "Wha' business yo' got
                        fo' to be a watchin' dem whi' folks? Fust ting
                        yo' know yo' git yo' backbone wa'med up
                        wid a stick! Better not be peekin' 'roun', I tell yo',"
                    "Ef yo' lak what yo' call
                        peekin'," replied the other, with a comical grin,
                        "jes' cas' yo' eye on dat young leddy
                        dat's got de leetle book an' pencil; she
                        kin' peek fo' de Lor' sake!"
                    Miss Crabb was pretty well aware of the delicacy of her situation, or, to put
                        it fairly, the indelicacy of it; but she had gone too far to retreat. She
                        must brave it through to the end.
                    It chanced that Moreton discovered Miss Noble's pique at Reynolds
                        because of his neglect to fulfill his promise to teach her the art of
                        handling a gun. This gave him a most excellent excuse for offering himself
                        as her instructor. He borrowed Reynolds' little gun  and made the most of his opportunities. His
                        patience was unbounded and Miss Noble's zeal unflagging, so that
                        between them they squandered a great deal of time down on a little open plat
                        between the house and the river, banging away at an improvised target. As
                        for Reynolds, his promise to Miss Noble was entirely forgotten by him. His
                        love for Agnes Ransom had crowded every lighter thing from his
                        consciousness. General DeKay and Mr. Noble remained faithful to the object
                        of the occasion, pursuing the birds with dogs and guns each day with
                        unremitting ardor. Young Beresford and his sister, after a most commendable
                        effort to stem, with a show of good natured indifference, the tide setting
                        against the passion of one and the pride of the other, went away, taking
                        with them, much against their will, the unflagging Miss Crabb, whose pencil
                        had filled the little red book with pothook notes of what she had seen and
                        heard.
                    Miss Crabb had failed, however, to get any sketches from Moreton. He had, at
                        last, begged her to release him from the obligation of his hasty promise.
                    "I did not think," he said to her; "I did not once
                        think of thethethe propriety of the thing, don't you know, when we
                        were talking about it; but it would offend every one here. These people are
                        peculiarly exclusivevery proud people, Miss Crabb, and they would take it as
                        a gross breach of hospitality. I am very sorry, and I hope you will
                        notnot"
                    
                    "Oh, no, certainly, I see," she exclaimed, in confused
                        haste. "It's all right, Mr. BeresfordMoreton I mean,
                        it's all right, I assure you; but do you think they'll
                        care for my writing them up? I don't see how I can afford to waste
                        all this material. It'll work up so charmingly."
                    "I don't pretend to advise as to that," Moreton
                        evasively answered, "You needn't send them any copy of
                        your paper. It takes any thing new a century to get here, if it
                        isn't especially sent. Use your own good editorial judgment, Miss
                        Crabb."
                    "Yes, of course," she responded, thoughtfully adjusting her
                        gloves, "it is a matter of business, a matter of bread and butter
                        with me. I must make every edge cut." She was silent for a moment.
                        Presently she looked up quickly and keenly, adding in a thin voice:
                        "If one writes for the public one must write what is of interest.
                        One can't afford to stand on small proprieties. I can't,
                        at least: I'm poor."
                    Moreton had ready no response. He felt an impulse toward putting his hand
                        into his pocket to give her some money; but of course he did not do it.
                        Never before had a look conveyed to him so sudden a discovery of the hard
                        lines of the life of a woman who is thrown upon her own resources for
                        earning a livelihood. It suggested to him a phase of human struggle hitherto
                        quite shut out of his imagination, however familiar to Americans.
                    
                    "Well, good-by," she presently said, with an almost
                        cheerful smile. "I wish I could stay here always: this is pretty
                        near my ideal of what a home should be." She cast a slow glance
                        around her, letting her eyes linger on the picturesque old mansion and its
                        embowering trees. Moreton fancied that her face betrayed a feeling of
                        weariness and failure, as if her enthusiasm had suddenly vanished.
                    "Good-by, Miss Crabb, I wish you great success," he
                        responded, cordially taking her hand. It was the best he could do.
                    "Thank you," she quickly replied. "I am determined
                        to deserve success, at least; but it is a long way off, I sometimes
                        fear." She turned to go to the waiting carriage, but faced him
                        again and added: "This has been a most charming experience to me.
                        What a sweet, restful life it must be living here. I almost envyI almost
                        covet Mrs. Ransom's lot. I have had such a hard," but she
                        did not finish the sentence. "Good-by," she repeated, and
                        went away.
                    Moreton felt a pang of sympathy for this poor girl, though he had no very
                        definite idea of what her struggles, her hopes and her failures might be. It
                        was enough for him to know that she was good and honest and earnest, and
                        that she felt the hardship of some galling limitations.
                    "Will she ever come to any thing? Is there really any chance for a
                        person like her in this country?" he 
                        inquired of Miss Noble a little later, as he sat by her side on a rustic
                        seat under some trees by the river.
                    "She may make a hit, as it is termed," was the answer.
                        "Some of them do, and then, if she will make the most of it, she
                        may get to where life is easier; but at best she can not hope for
                        much."
                    "It seems queer and pitiful to me," he said, after a moment
                        of thoughtfulness, "that so good and kind a girl as she evidently
                        is should have to do such things. Her situation has deeply touched
                        me."
                    "That is because you haven't been used to it. Young ladies
                        probably do not report for the press in England," replied Cordelia.
                        "It is a very common thing for them to do it here."
                    Moreton smiled, as one who gives up a sentiment rather reluctantly is apt to
                        do, and said:
                    "Still I would rather not see it; she appeared out of place,
                        somehow."
                    "She was quite out of place here; but she has become so used to
                        overcoming such obstacles that she easily evaded any sense of the
                        impropriety of invading the privacy of General DeKay's"
                    "No, I beg your pardon," hastily spoke up Moreton.
                        "You do her wrong. She did feel very keenly that
                        she was de trop, that she wasn't just free and
                        welcome, don't you know. I saw itshe almost acknowledged it to me,
                        in fact, and I felt downright sorry for her."
                    "Poor thing!" exclaimed Cordelia, her voice softening  with the sudden change in her quick sympathy.
                        "Poor girl! and we didn't try to help her or to make her
                        feel easy. I hate myself for it. I see how mean I have been. It would have
                        been so easy to have smoothed things for her, too!"
                    Moreton felt a temptation to seize this warm-hearted, impulsive girl and
                        press her close to his breast. Indeed he had a right to be sorely tempted,
                        for she was a strong, lithe, blooming maiden, whose steadfast honesty and
                        purity glowed in her eyes and on her lips. Then there was the dreamy
                        sunshine and the checkered shade and the softly rippling breeze to add to
                        his mood, and yonder was the slumberous river lapsing away between its
                        brakes. But he satisfied himself with simply looking at her and allowing her
                        beauty to freshen and sweeten his heart.
                    "I suppose it is selfish and narrow," he presently said;
                        "but I am heartily glad that all of them are gone that we are left
                        alone together, aren't you?"
                    She laughed, but she blushed as well, and looked away from him as she
                        answered in what she meant for a very careless tone:
                    "Oh, I like company and bright talk and the excitement of numbers;
                        it exhilarates me. This will be a dull old place, now that the party has
                        dwindled down to four or five. I hope my father has almost run the gamut of
                        his cartridges."
                    "Not a dull place," he said with a peculiar emphasis  "a dreamy, fascinating place,
                        rather. The river yonder, see how it glimmers, and this breeze; I never was
                        so happy at any place as I am here and now. There is a sort of mystery in
                        the influence of things around us."
                    She looked at him with a quick inquiry in her clear eyes, as if to discover
                        whether or not he was jesting. Something in his bold yet tender gaze parried
                        her glance and her lids dropped. She drooped her head and shoulders a
                        little, too, as if under some suddenly imposed burden.
                    "Aren't you very happy here?" he went on, leaning
                        a little toward her. "I want you to be very happy."
                    "Oh, yes, I'm always happy. I never was unhappy in my
                        life," she answered with a show of vehemence, instead of the
                        careless lightness that she intended should appear. "I'm
                        never serious enough to become sad."
                    Moreton looked at her with tender fervor, the power of love full upon him,
                        and yet the silly rhyme kept ringing in his brain:
                    
                        "The light of her eyes,
                        And the dew of her lips,
                        Where the moth never flies
                        And the bee never sips."
                    
                    Truly love-making has all of human nature in it, from the grandeur of extreme
                        exaltation down to the mere piping of sheerest nonsense; but the nonsense
                        for the time, is just as sweet as any part, so much does it  borrow of the rapture of the occasion. There
                        is comedy of a slender sort in it, which it seems a sacrilege to separate
                        from the sacred part, and yet we all are tempted into poking quiet fun at
                        the big, strong men who awkwardly dabble in love's sweet stream. So
                        few of them can come boldly down to the current and at once arrest it and
                        have their will of it outright.
                    "What would you do if you were poor, like Miss Crabb, and had to
                        face the world and struggle for life?" he asked with an absurd
                        inconsequence in his manner and voice.
                    "I can't imagine such a thing," she quickly
                        answered, "I really can't. It would be very, very hard, no
                        doubt. But I sometimes think I might be of more use, that my life is quite
                        empty of real value. I shouldn't know how to do any useful
                        thing."
                    "You might make some one happy. That would be good."
                    "I have no knack; I am selfish, frivolous, intent upon my own
                        happiness," she said, looking up with a bright smile.
                    "Just a word, sometimes, is better than any other alms," he
                        continued.
                    "Eleemosynary cheerfulness and breath of charity, as our good
                        minister is fond of calling it," she responded with a gay little
                        laugh. "I do sometimes try to be agreeable and bright, just to
                        please people,"
                    "That's mere social clap-trap, it doesn't mean any
                             thing. It must be genuine, don't
                        you knowcome right out from the heart. You must really desire to make some
                        one happy."
                    There was something in the vehemence of his voice and manner that caused her
                        to look into his eyes with a quick change from her careless levity to a
                        puzzled gravity of expression, that would have amused a disinterested
                        observer.
                    "How much would you do to make me very happy?" he went on,
                        speaking as if the question might be one of life and death. "You
                        would like to make me happy, wouldn't you?"
                    "Why do you ask thatwhat" Her eyes had drooped and she made
                        an unavailing effort to lift them again to his face. Here was his
                        opportunity.
                    "Because I love you, love you better than all the world,
                        Cordelia," came his hurried response. His arms made a quick initial
                        movement, instantly arrested, for the place was not just suited to any
                        violent demonstrations; then he added, breathlessly:
                    "Do you love me, Cordelia?"
                    She glanced rapidly around, as if expecting to find in the landscape some
                        relief from the embarrassment that flooded her cheeks with blushes. Just
                        then, Reynolds and Mrs. Ransom passed down the pathway leading from the
                        mansion to a little landing on the river, where a small boat lay moored.
                        They were too much absorbed in conversation to notice the lovers,  though they could almost have touched them as
                        they went by. Miss Noble remained silent, watching Reynolds assist his
                        graceful companion into the boat and draw in the little painter. Suddenly
                        she looked up and very demurely said:
                    "They're going for a row on the river: why didn't
                        we think of that? I delight in going out on the water."
                    "You would take a profound delight in any thing just now that would
                        help you to avoid answering my question, wouldn't you?" he
                        grumbled. "You've forgotten what it was I inquired about,
                        haven't you?"
                    She laughed in a low, clear way. Reynolds and Mrs. Ransom, lightly startled
                        by the sound, turned their faces quickly and waved a greeting, as they
                        glided out upon the placid stream. They appeared very happy.
                    "I shall not be put aside so lightly," he went on;
                        "I can't bear it. You must answer me, Cordelia."
                    "Answer you what?"
                    He sprang to his feet, and stood gazing down at her with his face actually
                        pale with emotion.
                    "You don't mean it? You can't mean to drive me
                        from you in this way?" he cried, his voice a little husky.
                    "Sit down, do, they're looking at usthey'll know
                        what it is," she murmured, making a deprecatory gesture with her
                        hand.
                    
                    He obeyed, saying rather ungraciously as he did so:
                    "What if they do know? We needn't care, they're no
                        better. Reynolds is nearly crazy about her; he means to propose to her as
                        soon as they're round the curve." He could not help
                        laughing a little at his own absurdity. But Cordelia pretended to pout.
                    "You should not say such things about Agnes; she doesn't
                        deserve your levity."
                    "I didn't say any harm of her," he hastened to
                        reply. "I spoke of Reynolds: he is very much in love. You do not
                        blame him for thinking a great deal of herI don't blame him at all.
                        I think it is deuced clever of him, don't you know."
                    She rose as if to go away.
                    "Come, now, turn about is fair: you made me sit down again when I
                        got up," he said, catching her hand and gently pulling her down
                        beside him.
                    What further was said between them has never been gathered from the sweet
                        wind that bore their fragmentary murmurings away among the old trees and
                        down the silvery windings of the river. I presume that, no matter how much
                        the circumstances of courtship may differ, true love, in the hey-day of
                        youth, or in the vigorous prime of life, has certain constant quantities by
                        which it may readily be known; and one of these is so sweet that, to one not
                        personally interested, it narrowly misses being entirely too sweet for
                        deliberate discussion.  John Ruskin has, I
                        believe, more than suggested an amendment to the ordinary methods of
                        love-making, but lovers seem inclined to follow the old, familiar
                        rose-scented plan, no matter how silly it may appear to superannuated
                        philosophers and art critics.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIII.
                    AT THE RUIN.
                    
                        REYNOLDS had been shut away from society for so long a
                        time that he had returned, in a degree, to the susceptibility and
                        receptivity of extreme youth. We grow like what we contemplate, is a very
                        trite truth, and he had absorbed much of the outright simplicity of the
                        mountaineers, without losing any of the character he had long ago formed.
                        Self-knowledge may be very valuable, but self-study does not tend always
                        toward happiness. One might almost venture to say that, in a vast majority
                        of cases, serious self-analysis amounts to remorse if nothing worse.
                        Moreover, one usually chooses solitude in which to erect one's
                        furnace and laboratory of self-criticism, where one may make the heat as
                        high and protracted as one pleases. The result is usually a mass of
                        unsightly slag instead of the fine and precious metal one has hoped to turn
                        out. Hence it is that a hermit returning to the world after years of
                        seclusion and self-delusion finds it a paradise when he had expected to see
                        it a hell. Men and women are so much purer and stronger and nobler than he
                        had pictured them, and all the  ways of human
                        social life are so much sweeter and fresher than his diseased brain had
                        remembered them to be, that he sloughs his crust, like a serpent, and comes
                        out a new man.
                    The doctrine that evil experiences are ever of value, or rather that a
                        baptism in sin ever worked a positive good to the recipient, is too
                        dangerous to be received; but it sometimes appears that there is an
                        annealing influence exerted on character by the intense heat of
                        uncontrollable passions, tempering it at last to the highest degree of
                        sensitiveness and susceptibility. Reynolds was aware, in a vague way, of the
                        change so rapidly going on within him. It was as if his nature were putting
                        forth a tremendous spurt of power with which to eject from its tissue the
                        evil of the old life. What a mystery there is in remorse and repentance and
                        reform! But how much greater the mystery of evil, that terrible, invisible
                        acid, combining with all the bases of human nature and disintegrating every
                        crystal of beauty! How shall the stream of a life, once defiled, be
                        purified? The simplest reagent will disclose the presence of sin, but what
                        process will eliminate it?
                    The Hand that made the mirror must remove the spots of tarnish.
                    Love is always the gateway of a new life. When its purple mists and its wafts
                        of heavenly perfumes come upon its victim his whole nature feels as if the
                        ultimate  sources of impulse had been
                        cleansed, sweetened and electrified. New needs, new aspirations, fresh hopes
                        and the dewy vigor of morning leap into the heart. Ah, then how bitter is
                        the memory of misdeeds! Just then if Satan would get behind and forever
                        disappear, what a relief! What a joy if all the past could be wiped out, as
                        with a sponge, and existence be left to date from the advent of love!
                    The meeting of Reynolds and Mrs. Ransom was much more than the ordinary
                        contact of life with life, whereby the spark of passion is generated; it was
                        significant of a blending of their past experiences as well as of the
                        creation of a new life for both. Even on the instant when a mutual interest
                        was awakened, their minds flashed back over the past. No doubt love ought to
                        be prospective always; but it can not often be so.
                    Agnes Ransom could not realize that she was a widow. It was more as if a very
                        sweet romance of her experience had ended in sorrow and disappointment. She
                        looked back upon the short space of her wedded life with a vision dimmed by
                        mists and shadows. She was half aware that her nature had gained much and
                        lost little by the experience. It all seemed very sad to her, and yet she
                        felt that the sadness was rather an atmosphere of the past than of the
                        present. It hovered somewhere behind her, it did not affect the future.
                        Still there was a protest somewhere, gentle and weak,  but quite troublesome, against this new, strong, imperious,
                        wayward love, now rising in her bosom and anon sinking away almost into the
                        depths out of which it had come. She trembled sometimes with a great fear,
                        at other times she abandoned herself to it with a serene fullness of
                        content.
                    Close to the river's bank, all overgrown with wild vines and darkly
                        shadowed by clustering trees, there stood, distant about a mile from the
                        DeKay place, an almost shapeless pile of brick and stucco, the ruins of a
                        once stately Southern mansion. It had been burned, whether by accident or
                        the work of an incendiary is not known. Some tragic legend was connected
                        with its historya vague story of hereditary feud, bloody encounter, the
                        gloom of crime and the solemn hush that follows after violent death. It was
                        not a story ever told by a DeKay, for it affected the history of the family
                        a generation or two ago. The very oldest negroes on the plantation knew
                        something of the dark outlines of the tragedy; but they had learned not to
                        more than vaguely hint the extent of their knowledge by equivocal allusions
                        and dubious generalities. The affair dated back to the early Alabama days,
                        when slavery was in its most prosperous state in a financial way, and when
                        chivalry, so-called, was at its zenith. The ruin, with its picturesque walls
                        overgrown with vines, was a fitting monument of the decay of medieval
                        customs in the South as well as of the downfall of  a once proud and in many ways brave and generous family.
                    It was towards this pathetic pile that Reynolds pulled with vigorous
                        oar-strokes, as he and Mrs. Ransom set out upon the river from the little
                        landing at DeKay Place. Unconsciously and with the case that comes of great
                        nervous and muscular force, made ready by his recent years of healthful
                        habits and out-door training, he put such impulse into the little craft as
                        made it leap like a skipping fish, leaving a whirling wake behind it,
                        gleaming and darkling in sun and shade. He had not yet spoken of love.
                        Indeed his heart was so full of this new and sweetly stormy passion that he
                        could not master it sufficiently to clothe it in words. He was ever at the
                        point of speaking and ever faltering and holding back his voice. So he found
                        a relief in great muscular exertion. It was love thrilling along his nerves
                        and sinews that made his arms tireless. He felt as if each long, strong
                        sweep of the oars were bearing Agnes and him away from all the rest of the
                        world, away from the past and into a sweet, shadowy solitude like that which
                        the imagination has, in all ages, seen swimming on the furthest horizon, and
                        towards which all lovers have hopefully but vainly steered their
                        dream-ladened barks.
                    A sense of unworthiness repressed and almost smothered, a strong conscience
                        bound down and enveloped in the fire of passion, these would make themselves
                             felt in a dull, heavy, indefinite way. He
                        could not shake off for long at a time a consciousness that all this deep,
                        sweet, strong happiness flooding his soul to bursting, was ephemeral, and
                        would vanish at the touch of the first sinister faux pas
                        by which the past might be uncovered.
                    Mrs. Ransom, in the after part of the boat, sat facing Reynolds, her lissome
                        figure in an attitude of almost childish carelessness and grace. She was,
                        apparently, as unaware of her rare charm of person as was he of his immense
                        physical power. It is one of the wholesomest of out-door influences that
                        eliminates, for the time, the frivolous conventionalities of social life,
                        and establishes in their stead something of the freedom of the wind and the
                        transparent freshness of running water. Nature, by some occult process,
                        reaches our hearts and sponges off the sediment of artificial sentiment, so
                        that the simpler elements of life are set to work in us without any
                        hindrance. Given a boat, a calm, clear river, fine weather, a man and a
                        woman, youth, strength, health, and what an infinitude of happiness may be
                        expected! It is often the case that human experience is, under such
                        circumstances, condensed to the last degree of denseness, or expanded to an
                        ethereal tenuity never dreamed of in the hot-house narrowness of city life.
                        Out-door realities are so strong and dreams are so wide and fair where the
                        sun shines and the air is full of balm and the water flows with such a
                        liberal, far-going murmur.  Tragedy has a
                        broader and deeper significance enacted without any stage limitations, and
                        comedy catches a sparkle from the brooks and the daylight and the starlight,
                        never reflected from gas jets and painted backgrounds.
                    Very little was said between Mrs. Ransom and Reynolds in the time it took to
                        reach a place where they could land near the ruin, their conversation
                        confining itself to observations on such little incidents as happened during
                        their quick flight. Once a flock of wood-ducks sprang in a rapid whirl from
                        the water near them and winged their way up the stream, their bright colors
                        shining with a peculiar twinkle, as far as the eye could follow them. Little
                        shadowy sandpipers ran along the sandy margins, here and there, or flew
                        across from bank to bank with their comical jerky motion. In some places the
                        reeds grew down to the water's edge in dense brakes wherein the
                        hermit thrush arid the catbird could be seen by fitful glimpses. The rapid
                        movement of the boat kept changing the point of view and at each change some
                        new arrangement of the trees, the cane, the tall dry stalks of water grass
                        or of the bold banks of the river attracted the eye.
                    Reynolds felt the stimulus of his passion tingling in his blood. His bronzed
                        checks wore a faint flush and his eyes were full of earnest, tender light.
                        He stranded the prow of the boat on a little crescent of sand at the foot of
                        the bluff and helped Mrs. Ransom out. She  had
                        directed him where to land, and now he turned to her and asked:
                    "Now, how shall we get up to the top of the bluff?"
                        "There is a sort of stairway yonder by that old tree," she
                        answered, pointing with her hand. "It is badly dilapidated, but we
                        can climb it easily."
                    Somewhere, not very far away, they heard the booming of General
                        DeKay's and Mr. Noble's guns. The sport must have been
                        fine, for the shooting was rapid.
                    They found the staira zig-zag flight of crazy steps, leading up to the
                        plateau above. In order to reach its foot, they had to stoop and creep under
                        the low-hanging boughs of a tree. Reynolds took hold of her arm to help her.
                        On a sudden impulse she freed herself from him. A thrill had come with his
                        touch, and something like fear took momentary possession of her. She fled
                        nimbly up the steps ahead of him, as if she meant to escape him entirely. He
                        scarcely noticed her start and her haste, for some vines and tangled
                        branches hindered him and disturbed his vision. When she emerged into the
                        sunlight of the level space on the bluff, Mrs. Ransom stopped, ashamed of
                        her foolish flight, and turned about just in time to look straight into the
                        eyes of Reynolds, as he was surmounting the topmost steps.
                    "I beat you climbing," she exclaimed, her voice shaking a
                        little from the effect of her exertion.
                    
                    "I feared you had left me for good and all," he replied;
                        "but how pale you are! Was your effort too violent? Are you
                        ill?"
                    "Not at all," she responded, the negative phrase peculiar
                        to the Southern people falling with a sort of breathless readiness from her
                        lips. "Am I really pale?"
                    "Perhaps not," he said, seeing the rosy light coming into
                        her cheeks again. "I only imagined it; but it is a difficult place
                        to climb, and you came up like a bird. You shouldn't take such
                        risks: it is dangerous."
                    He looked about for the ruin. A tall, heavy chimney-stack rising above a
                        tangled mass of wild vines and trees answered his inquiry.
                    "Come this way," she said, leading on; "there is a
                        path, further up the slope, that goes round to the entrance."
                    He followed her quick movements, and soon she stopped before an arched
                        doorway in the old semi-circular transom of which a few pieces of stained
                        glass still remained. On either hand stood fragments of stuccoed pillars all
                        festooned with vines. She paused but for a moment, then went under the arch
                        and passed from roofless room to roofless room with the swift, certain step
                        of one quite familiar with the place, Every where the ivy and wild grape
                        vines had draped the crumbling walls and heaps of rubbish, so that, in
                        places, bowers as fanciful as those of fairy-land, made a sweet crepuscular
                             gloom, though the foliage was mostly
                        gone. He tried to reach her side, but her quick turns and elusive movements
                        kept her all the time just ahead of him, and her sweet voice came back to
                        him, as if tossed to him over her shoulder, luring him on and on, in and out
                        through the labyrinth of rooms. Once she stopped for the merest moment to
                        look out, through a ragged opening which had once been a window, down upon
                        the placid face of the river. He came close to her and bent low to gaze over
                        her shoulder. She felt his breath on her neck.
                    "How lovely!" he murmured, in that deep, rich voice which
                        always vibrated so strangely in her ears. His moment had come.
                    "Lovely," she echoed, and slipped away, like some shy, wild
                        thing afeard of its own voice.
                    Reynolds was burning with a desire to speak to her of his love, and she,
                        hardly knowing why, felt a sweet dread of him. She tripped along through
                        what had been a broad hall and turned into an open space where some of the
                        walls had crumbled into a great heap around the base of the stack of
                        chimneys. Here it was that suddenly a man, wild-eyed, shaggy-headed, ragged
                        and gaunt, sprang up before her in a menacing attitude with a heavy pistol
                        in his hand. She gave one little chirruping scream, threw up her arms and
                        sank in a crumpled heap to the ground. Reynolds sprang forward with a loud
                        ejaculation. His movement had all  the
                        appearance of a furious attack upon the startled ruffian, who, in sheer
                        self-defense, as he thought, raised the pistol and fired. Reynolds felt the
                        blow and the dull pang of the bullet in his right shoulder. The man did not
                        fire again, but turned and fled through the nearest opening. It was all so
                        sudden, the whole thing happening within the space of half a minute, that no
                        one of the actors had time to get more than a glimpse of the situation
                        before the act was ended. The ruffian, as was afterward ascertained, was a
                        condemned murderer who had escaped from jail just the night before he was to
                        have been hanged. No doubt he was lying asleep when the approach of Mrs.
                        Ransom startled him, and thinking it was an attempt to recapture him, he had
                        fired and fled. The sound of the shot roused Mrs. Ransom from her half swoon
                        and she leaped to her feet. Reynolds put forth his hand and touched her on
                        the arm.
                    "Be calmdon't get scared, I can protect you," he
                        said, but he could not see her. A cloud was in his eyes and a reeling
                        sensation in his brain.
                    She looked up into his face and saw how deathly white it was.
                    "Are you hurt?" she quaveringly asked, taking a step nearer
                        him.
                    He mumbled some unintelligible answer, felt blindly about in the air with his
                        hands, staggered, gasped hoarsely, and fell at full length upon the ground,
                        face  downward, arms outspread, and lay quite
                        still. Suddenly, to Mrs. Ransom, the silence of the place became awful,
                        dense, impenetrable. She screamed, but her voice seemed not to go a yard
                        from her lips. She stood for a moment with clenched hands, her face pinched
                        and thin, her eyes fixed upon the prostrate form of Reynolds; then she threw
                        herself down beside him and tried with all her might to turn him so that she
                        could see his features; but he was so heavy and she so weak that her effort
                        was vain. She called for help until her voice became thick with hoarseness.
                    "Oh, is he dead?" she wailed, "is he dead? Oh,
                        won't some one come! Must he die now! Oh, and I love him solove him
                        so!"
                    It was as if her grieving words called him back from lifelessness, for he
                        moaned, sighed deeply, and by a violent struggle turned himself on his side
                        with his face toward her. He opened his eyes and looked inquiringly at her
                        for a time, then he closed them with a weak, tremulous motion of the lids.
                        She clasped his head in her arms, and summoning all her strength, lifted it
                        upon her lap. The blood was beginning to ooze through his saturated clothes
                        and trickle on the ground beside him. It almost crazed her to see this, but
                        she was as powerless as a child to help him. She could but bend over him,
                        and, brushing the dark heavy hair back from his forehead, where cold beads
                        of sweat had risen, kiss him again and again in the ecstasy of her  excitement. He was not unconscious now, but
                        he was limp and nerveless, his immense vitality slowly gathering itself for
                        the effort to recover equilibrium. Faint almost unto death as he was, he
                        felt the thrill her kisses sent throughout his frame, and he did not note
                        the pain of his ugly wound.
                    "Oh, you must not die, you must not die!" she wailed, in a
                        sobbing voice. "Open your eyes for my sake, Johnfor my sake, do you
                        hear, for I love you so!"
                    He heard every word, but he could not open his eyes or move his lips, though
                        slowly and surely his strength was coming back, despite the rapid loss of
                        blood.
                    The pistol ball was a very large one and it had made a bad, almost fatal
                        wound, having passed through his shoulder and a part of his chest, barely
                        missing the lung. The shock had had a paralyzing effect, causing the
                        insensibility from which he was rallying.
                    It was a striking picture they made grouped against the dark back-ground of
                        the old wall, with the dim light falling over them. If a broken spear and a
                        cloven helmet had rested hard by, it would have served well for a tableau of
                        medieval days, a lady nursing the head of her fallen knight within the
                        crumbling ruins of some battered castle.
                    "Why did we ever come here! Oh, love, my own love,
                        open your eyes! Speak to me: say you will not die, you will not
                        die!"
                    
                    Her words, so insistent, so despairing and so passionate, filled his
                        consciousness with an all-satisfying sense of happiness. He could scarcely
                        understand why she should not be willing to let him lie quietly and listen
                        to her, for he had not recovered himself sufficiently to be able to grasp
                        the reality of her suffering or of his own condition.
                    "Speak to me, speak to me," she kept reiterating, until at
                        last, like one freeing himself reluctantly from a sweet dream, he moved his
                        lips, making no sound at first, but presently saying:
                    "Where are you, Agnes?"
                    His voice was so strange and so low that she could not catch his words. She
                        bowed her head so that her face almost touched his.
                    "What is itwhat did you say?" she tenderly asked.
                    He put up his left hand and swept it over her cheek and down along her
                        shoulder. Then, as his wound began to pain him, he groaned in a suppressed
                        way.
                    "What ails me? Whatah, the shothe hit me, I knowI remember
                        now," he said, beginning to gather strength. "Let me sit
                        up."
                    With a strong effort he raised himself to a sitting posture and smiled
                        feebly.
                    "I have called and called, but no one will come. What shall we
                        do?" she cried, wringing her hands and gazing helplessly at him.
                        "Oh, why did we ever come here?"
                    
                    "Be calm, darling," he said, looking fondly at her, the wan
                        smile on his face growing more intense. "I will show you that I am
                        a man worthy of your love." Then he arose and stood up, tall and
                        beautiful in his strength, before her, seeming to defy his wound and its
                        pain, though his face was pale as death.
                    "Come," he added, "let us go to the boat and
                        return to the house. Come, I am strong now, and I love you, Agnes, my own
                        little womancome with me."
                    He caught her with his unhurt arm and drew her hard against his side. With a
                        swift, firm tread he went with her down to the landing, never faltering or
                        wavering until he had fixed himself in the stern of the boat and directed
                        her how to paddle out to the middle of the stream.
                    All this time he had been losing blood and his pain had been excruciating. He
                        had made a grand effort, and now the reaction came with a power that he
                        could not resist. He sank back with his head resting on his arm and lay
                        there as white and lifeless as if dead. She thought him dead, and sat there
                        numb and motionless, letting the boat drift with the gentle current. Every
                        thing about her appeared shadowy, misty, unreal. Her heart scarcely beat.
                        Why was it that, in the midst of this awful trial, there came to her mind a
                        vivid memory of the short romance of her married life down on the old
                        plantation by Mariana? Some of those days were dreamily happy ones with her
                        wild boy husbandthe  days before discontent
                        and trouble came. Why would the reckless blue eyes and curling, yellow hair
                        waver before her, between the strong, pallid features of this man whom she
                        now loved with such fervor?
                    Slowly the boat drifted on in the sunlight, between the reed-covered banks,
                        bearing its strange load down toward the DeKay place. It was a dark touch
                        with which to end so charming an idyl as the past few days had been; but
                        life in the South favors the tragic and the melodramatic: it is the life of
                        passion and of sudden changes.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIV.
                    A WHISPER IN THE CABIN.
                    
                        ONE day, while Reynolds was gone to General
                        Dekay's, White came home from Birmingham perfectly sober and with
                        no gambling story to tell. Miliy met him at the gate, as usual, with the
                        same pitiful look of patient inquiry in her eyes. He chucked her under the
                        chin and in an uncommonly cheery voice said:
                    "He air comin' home right away soon, Milly, I hev hearn
                        from `in straight. Go an' drive up the steer fer me, won't
                        ye? I want er haul er jag er pine-knots puity soon."
                    "I don't b'lieve he air a comin' no sich
                        a thing. I dremp he wer' married, an' thet's a
                        sign o' death. How d'ye know he air a
                        comin'?" She spoke almost pettishly, looking fixedly at
                        her father, whose pale eyes wandered aimlessly from object to object.
                    "I seed Mr. Noble, thet banker down ther': he hev come
                        back. He said ter me, says he, `The Colonel, he an' Mr. Moreting
                        air comin' nex' week,' thet's what he
                        says ter me."
                    Milly let her eyes fall and began digging in the ground with the toe of one
                        of her shoes.
                    
                    "Thet young lady, thet Miss Noble down ther', hes she kem
                        back?" she presently asked.
                    "La, yes, she hev," quickly replied White. "Bless
                        yer life, yes, she kem with 'er pap. Oh, yes, she kem too, she
                        did."
                    "What meks John stay so long?"
                    "Oh, him? w'y he's a havin' a
                        stavin'ole time er shootin' quails an' a
                        drinkin' er fine liquor an' er smokin' good
                        seegairs. Don't yer go to blamin' him fer stayin'
                        awhile down ther': hit air a good place ter be at, yer better
                        think."
                    "Seems like he mought never come," she murmured, and there
                        were tears in her eyes as she started to go and fetch the ox.
                    White went into the house and shut the door.
                    "I hev a bad secret to tell ye," he said to his wife,
                        "an' I don't wan't yer ter let Milly
                        know airy breath about it, nuther."
                    "Well, less yer what it air."
                    "Ye won't tell Milly?"
                    "Nairy word."
                    "Sarting an' sure?"
                    "Yes."
                    "Well, the Colonel he air shot."
                    "Shot?"
                    "He air."
                    "Shot?"
                    "He air, sarting."
                    
                    "Goodness! an' who tole ye?"
                    "Thet banker, down ther' at town, Mr. Noble, he tole me.
                        Hit wer' a feller 'at broke jail 'at done hit, a
                        outdacious murderer, down yer at some other town, 'at wer a
                        goin' ter be hung, an' some friend of his'n
                        helped 'im ter break jail an' give 'im a pistol,
                        an' he put out through the country. Hit seems, f'om what
                        thet banker down yer says, 'at the Colonel were a
                        galivantin' off to some lonesome ole house wi' a widder
                        'oman, 'an thet feller he wer in ther an'
                        jes' shot 'im down."
                    "Goodness alive! Hit didn't kill 'im? The Colonel
                        he hain't dead?"
                    "No, not dead, but he air bad off. He air laid up in bed. He hev got
                        a hole through 'im."
                    Mrs. White began filling her pipe with great energy, her husband following
                        her example. There was a space of silence, then he said:
                    "We hev got ter lie ter Milly fer all thet's out.
                        Hit'll never do fer her ter know it'at the
                        Colonel's hurt. She'd go 'stracted."
                    "She mought jest as well. Hit air no use er foolin',
                        he's not goin' ter hev 'er."
                    "Hev her! Hev her! w'at upon the airth
                        are ye talkin' 'bout?"
                    "She loves 'im."
                    "Milly? She love? She love him?"
                    "Ye-es, she-e lo-ove hi-im!" drawled Mrs. White in a high
                        key, wagging her head with each word.
                    
                    White looked at her in utter consternation.
                    "Thet leetle silly gal love him? W'y she
                        air no more'n a tom-tit er a hominy-bird ter be a lovin'
                        the Colonel. Shorely she hain't gone an' been no sich a
                        dang fool es thet!"
                    "She hev."
                    "How d'ye know?"
                    "Hain't I got no eyes, ner years?"
                    "Ye hev, sarting, an' a tongue."
                    "Now smarty! Ye think ye've said
                        somethin'!"
                    "Beg parding. But this yer stuff 'bout love, hit air a bad
                        thing. I commence ter see into some er Milly's cur'us
                        notions, ef thet air's the case. But dang ef I b'lieve
                        sech a thing."
                    "Well, hit air the case, an' there's more ter
                        come. Ye hain't hearn the wo'st part."
                    "An' what d'ye mean by thet?"
                    "I mean a heap, thet's w'at I mean."
                    "A heap er what?"
                    "Ef ye'll promerse me on yer wordy honor ter keep still
                        tell I say at ye may go free, I'll tell yer
                        w'at."
                    "I promerse, sarting."
                    "On yer wordy honor?"
                    "Yes."
                    "I'm erfeard ye'll go ter bein' a fool
                        an' makin' a fuss 'fore I whant ye to.
                        'Cause ye see, hit mayn't be es bad es it
                        mought."
                    As Mrs. White said this, White looked searchingly  into her face, and what he saw there caused him to move
                        uneasily and puff his tobacco smoke nervously.
                    "What is this yer what yer a hintin' at, anyhow?"
                        he demanded, almost fiercely.
                    "I hain't erbleeged ter tell ye, an' I'll
                        jest never do hit er tall, ef yer a goin' to be er fool
                        an' high-rantin' aroun' like er eejet er
                        somethin'."
                    "Didn't I promerse ye? Hain't thet enough? Ef hit
                        tain't, what d'ye want me to do?"
                    "W'y I whant ye ter never say er word ter nobody
                        'bout w'at I tell ye, tell I say so, not a single word,
                        nor do a thing 'bout hit of any kind. Do ye promerse?"
                    "Yes."
                    "On yer sacurd wordy honor?"
                    "Yes, dang it all, go on!"
                    "Now I'r a goin' ter tell ye somethin' at
                        air orful, an' I don't know w'at to do erbout
                        hit. But 'member, yer promersed me."
                    "Yes."
                    "Ye'll keep right still, an' never say a word, er
                        do a single thing erbout hit?"
                    "Yes, I tole ye thet, long ago, 'bout a dozen times. Go on,
                        an' say what yer a goin' to."
                    They were looking at each other, as people do who are about to experience
                        some grave domestic crisis. Mrs, White's sallow face had suddenly
                        taken on a hot flush, and her eyes looked worried and hollow.
                    "I d'know hardly how ter say hit with my mouth,"
                             she falteringly began. "I wush I
                        never hed a been born'd, no how!"
                    Tears came into her eyes and her lips quivered.
                    White leaned over close to her, taking the pipe from his mouth, and said in a
                        low, hoarse voice:
                    "What air the matter, wife?"
                    "Oh, a heap, a heap air the matter!" she sobbed.
                    White put his hand on her shoulder and brought his ear close to her lips.
                    "Tell me now, I want er know," he gently and gravely urged.
                    She whispered something in a rapid, sobbing way. Not more than a dozen words,
                        but White's face shriveled as if with a great heat. He drew back
                        from her and glared like a wild beast. Not a sound came from his writhing
                        lips. His thin jaws quivered.
                    "'Member yer sacurd wordy honor," said the woman.
                    "Ye promersed me, ye know."
                    He got up and tramped aimlessly around the room. Presently he took down his
                        long flint-lock rifle from its rack over the door, and blew into its muzzle.
                    "Ye'll not brek yer wordy honor?" she insisted.
                    He put the gun back and came and sat down by her again. Just then Milly
                        opened the door and entered the room carrying her coarse sun-bonnet in her
                        hand. The exercise of fetching the ox down from his browsing place on the
                        mountain side had put a bright color in her cheeks, and the wind had been
                        tossing her pale,  straw-gold hair so that it
                        hung in elfish tangles about her neck and shoulders. She scarcely glanced at
                        her father and mother.
                    "I hitched 'im out ther'," she said,
                        referring to the ox, and passing on into the kitchen, went by that
                        round-about way into Reynolds' room. She was very, sly, but they
                        heard her moving about, and knew she was once more re-arranging his things.
                    They looked at each other with something of that hopeless, dazed expression
                        often observed in the eyes of the lower animals when hurt to death. Milly
                        had left the outer door open and the cool mountain air poured in, rustling
                        vaguely such loose articles as its current could stir.
                    Little more was said between the man and his wife, for there seemed nothing
                        to say. A cloud had settled over their compressed, barren lives. Nothing in
                        their natures was ready or flexible. They stared at fate, as they stared at
                        each other, with the hopelessness of utter bewilderment.
                    Days went by, days of that languid, cloudless weather which comes to those
                        mountains in early February, and the little household of the cabin went
                        through the dry, spiritless round of duties, as if some spell had fallen
                        upon them. True there was no marked visible change in their way of life;
                        that was impossible. The limitations of human action nowhere else are set
                        with such rigid immutability as they are, and perhaps always will  be, in those cramped, unfertile, almost
                        barren mountain to regions of the South. No advance, no retrogression (save
                        where here and there a railroad brings its little whisky centers), all is
                        stagnant, dull, dry, hopeless poverty. Illiteracy, sterility, and that
                        stubborn conservatism which is born of them, rest like an atmosphere around
                        those poor people. They move and breathe and are stolidly content.
                    When a month had passed and Reynolds had not come, Milly, who had been kept
                        in ignorance of the true state of affairs, began to show stronger signs of
                        disappointment. She was restless and anxious, wandering about the house or
                        leaning upon the gate, silent, sad-eyed, expectant and hopeless by turns, a
                        source of deep trouble to her parents.
                    Now and then White attempted to cheer her up, but the words seemed to come
                        dead and meaningless from his dry lips when he would say:
                    "He air a havin' a out dacious good time down
                        ther', he air, an' he don't like ter quit off
                        yet. Jest ye wait a day er two an' 'en ye'll see
                        'm a comin' up yer, Milly, a comin' up
                        yer" his voice would most usually fail him, but he would go on:
                        "Yes, he air comin' back purty soon, when he hev hed all
                        the shootin' he ken git."
                    Such statements, reiterated so often, lost a large part of their reassuring
                        power, but Milly liked to hear them, and they were the best that he could
                        do.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XV.
                    A DISCLOSURE.
                    
                        THE day following that on which Reynolds received his
                        wound brought letters to Moreton from his home in England, with intelligence
                        of the sudden death of his father, and a request for him to come at once.
                        This summons was so urgent and peremptory that nothing short of immediate
                        departure could be thought of. So he went; but not without
                        Cordelia's promise to become his wife, and not before he had
                        reached a full understanding with Mr. Noble on the subject. It was hard for
                        him to break away from the sweet meshes in which he was entangled, and hard
                        for him to leave Reynolds lying there pale and emaciated, with little more
                        than the breath of life in him; but he could not stay. He promised to come
                        back within two months, little thinking at the time that he would never see
                        Birmingham again, or at best for some years to come. But so it was. When he
                        reached England he found that the best interests of his father's
                        estate required the sale of the American property, and that he would have to
                        give his entire attention to the home affairs.
                    
                    Soon after Moreton's departure Mr. Noble, following the fashion of
                        thrifty Americans, seized upon a most favorable offer and changed his place
                        of abode to New York City, where he became the chief of a strong banking
                        establishment in which he had hitherto held a subordinate interest. So that
                        by the time that Reynolds was beginning to gather strength and to forge well
                        past the point of danger from his hurt, he was left alone with the DeKay
                        household. No in valid ever had more careful nursing or had thrown around
                        him more charming influences. General DeKay gave his entire time and
                        attention to ministering to the needs of his guest, appearing to feel that,
                        in some way, as a host, he had been careless and thus to blame for the
                        almost fatal misfortune to one of his party. He had formed a great liking
                        for Reynolds, beginning no doubt with the young man's excellent
                        shooting in the first day's sport, and made stronger by the manly
                        qualities and magnetic influence he possessed in a marked degree; and this
                        liking shaped itself during Reynolds illness into an attachment very rarely
                        engendered between men.
                    Mrs. Ransom, after the first great shock of the adventure had spent its
                        force, exhibited a quiet courage and fortitude in strong contrast to her
                        girlish weakness up at the ruin. She was tireless in her efforts, hopeful,
                        even when the doctors doubted, and cheerful when every one else appeared
                        ready to despair. She seemed to  rely, with
                        perfect confidence, on Reynolds' power to overcome the effect of
                        the hurt, and when his enormous vitality began to assert itself, she went
                        about the house with a gentle smile on her lips and a serene light in her
                        beautiful eyes that told how her heart rejoiced. To know that he was under
                        the same roof with her and that he loved her and that he was getting well,
                        filled her with a contentment little short of perfect happiness. She was not
                        an intellectual woman, as the phrase goes; she knew little of the
                        world's philosophies and sophistries, but she was a true woman,
                        full of feminine sentiment, cleverness and earnestness: shy, wary, elusive,
                        and yet outright and artless, at times, as any child. Her beauty was of that
                        rarer Southern type which is the opposite, in most features, of the fiery,
                        passionate, voluptuous, tropical model which has been unjustly copied into
                        art and literature as the representative one.
                    Beauty that shrinks from self-advertisement and delights in blooming in a
                        sheltered place where the light is never over-strong, secretes such essence
                        and fragrance, takes on such modest and delicate color, and holds about it
                        an atmosphere so subtly individual, that it is not within the power of brush
                        or pen to portray it so easily and effectually as it may that other and
                        coarser and possibly more vital sort. It is this beauty that a pink ribbon
                        to-day or a bunch of violets to-morrow, or any other simple bit of
                        adornment, seems so  perfectly suited to as to
                        appear a part of the wearer. If Agnes Ransom was rather below the best
                        womanly stature, the casual observer would not have noticed it, for her
                        bearing was high and her development strikingly balanced, or rather, so
                        evenly balanced as not to be striking, and her movements had the smoothness
                        and rhythm of a perfect lyric. She was a woman whose love would be of
                        lasting value to a true man, and to love whom would generate nothing lawless
                        or shortlived in the masculine nature. If Cleopatra stands as one type of
                        eastern beauty and passion, Ruth stands as another. A woman like Agnes
                        Ransom may be taken as representing very fairly a certain class of Southern
                        women who carry about with them, even in old age, a girlishness and
                        simplicity, combined with a shyness and exclusiveness often mistaken for
                        either prudery or unfriendliness. Plantation life is, to an extent, a lonely
                        one in a climate where it is possible and pleasing to spend much time out of
                        doors, and where all the influences of out-door nature tend to generate
                        repose. One can not but observe what seems to be the effect of these
                        influences in determining the physical and mental contour of the Southern
                        girl. She is slender, well developed, lithe, graceful, rather inclined to
                        repose, not strikingly intellectual, has strong domestic inclinations and
                        bears about with her an air of provincial innocency and naivet that has a
                        marked flavor of the isolation and the freedom of the plantation. Mrs.
                        Ransom  had been very little in city society;
                        a winter in New Orleans and a few visits to Savannah limiting her experience
                        beyond that obtained from a residence in the dreamy, isolated little old
                        place of her birth, Pensacola. She was not a Catholic, but the rudiments of
                        her education had been obtained in a convent, and something of that demure
                        quietness and quaintness of manner characteristic of the nun had remained
                        with her. No doubt her short and trying married experience had modified her
                        charms of person and character to an interesting extent, adding an
                        inexpressible value to her beauty. A trace of lingering sadness, slight but
                        always present, gave a mild emphasis to the purity of her face and the low
                        music of her voice. Such a woman could not fail to touch the heart of a
                        fervid and passionate man like Reynolds, whose whole nature had been
                        introverted for years, and whose life had been so long repressed and
                        stagnant.
                    During the half delirium of his fever, while the inflammation of his wound
                        was at its worst, he lay and watched her come and go, his heated vision
                        making an angel of her about whose ethereally lovely form halos and rainbow
                        colors played fantastic tricks. Sometimes the apparition was double, and
                        then one of the angels took the form of poor little Milly White, whose
                        haunting, hungry face flashed with a heavenly light. But as he grew stronger
                        and the fever left him, it was Agnes Ransom, the pale, sweet, earnest little
                        woman, that  controlled his every thought. He
                        was content to lie there and patiently wait on nature's slow work
                        so long as she hovered near. He felt securely fixed in her love. Every word,
                        that in the stress of agony, she had uttered up there in the ruin, lay like
                        some divine germ in his heart, growing and strengthening with every moment.
                        He did not seek to have her say more and he said little himself. When she
                        fetched flowers from the out-door conservatory, grand cream-white and blush
                        camellias, roses, jasmine and violets, and arranged them on the odd little
                        mahogany table by his bedside, he would whisper some tender phrase of thanks
                        and love, and then she would sit by the window and read aloud to him some
                        forgotten romance, such as is to be found in every ancient Southern library.
                        Happy invalid! to have such balm for his wound! And so the days of his
                        convalescence drew by, not in pain and fretfulness and impatience, but
                        freighted with the richest gifts of love. He was like one in some favored
                        nook of fairy land, realizing the tenderest visions of dreams.
                    One day, near the first of March, when he had grown able to sit propped up on
                        a sofa by a window, whence he could look out over the broad landscape to
                        where the sky came down to the tufted woods, or turn his eyes upon short
                        silvery bits of the river, he said to her:
                    "I shall soon be able to go away. I feel my strength coming back
                        with every breath."
                    She looked up from the needlework that she chanced  just then to have in hand, and, with one of her slow, sweet
                        smiles, shook her head.
                    "You must not begin to hurry. You must be patient, ever so patient.
                        A moment of haste might cause a month of trouble. You can not afford to run
                        any risks."
                    "Oh, I am patient," he replied. "I really find
                        myself dreading to get well, selfish wretch that I am. Do you observe that I
                        never take into consideration the immense trouble I am causing all of you? I
                        think of nothing but the charmed life I am livingthe sweet comforts I am
                        receiving."
                    "I really believe you are getting well," she said.
                        "When you talk in that strain I know you are but trying to hide a
                        longing for your mountain air and the freedom of your hermitage."
                    "You do me wrong," he responded, with an earnest resonance
                        in his voice. "I am so content to be as I am that when I go to
                        sleep I do not even dream of being well."
                    "I am glad of it, for the doctor says that a quiet mind is the best
                        salve for a healing wound."
                    "You had better not convince me that the doctor is right, for I
                        might be tempted to get restless in order to prolong my period of delicious
                        convalescence. Beware, if you don't want me lolling in easy chairs
                        or propped on cushions and pillows for you to minister to all the
                        season."
                    
                    "Oh I shall know it if you begin to take on the air of a
                        professional invalid, and shall discharge you at once," she
                        exclaimed, with a light laugh. "You won't be interesting
                        as aa sham! I hate shams and deceits and hidden things of every
                        sort."
                    He looked at her with such a sudden, though barely noticeable change of
                        expression in his eyes, that her quick intuition told her of some serious
                        thought that had leaped, unbidden and unwelcome, into his mind.
                    "Hidden things," he said, with a peculiar smile.
                        "Hidden things are often much better hidden than disclosed, and it
                        is a mercy to the world that secretiveness is one of the strongest elements
                        of human nature."
                    "Perhaps so," she said, growing grave and thoughtful.
                        "But it would be so much better if there were never any need to
                        exercise one's secretive faculties."
                    "Oh, a dormant faculty would be contrary to the economy of nature.
                        Even confession catches a precious fragrance from the transgression long
                        hidden away. Conscience would not even be ornamental, much less useful, if
                        it bore no treasure of sins known to it only." He spoke in an airy,
                        idle manner, but there went with his tones a ring of something not quite
                        pleasing.
                    "You shock me," she exclaimed, in perfect earnestness, a
                        cloud gathering in her eyes. "I hope you do not believe in such
                        ugly and dangerous doctrines."
                    Immediately he gathered in his straying thoughts  and crushed down the memory that was nagging at his consciousness. He
                        felt with sudden clearness how easily he might turn away from him the
                        confiding earnestness of this sensitive woman, and attract from her instead
                        the interest born of a doubtful sort of fascination.
                    "I don't believe in them," he smilingly answered.
                        "I was merely giving rein to an idle whim of the moment. On the
                        contrary, I believe in perfect frankness in all things. Confession and
                        forgiveness are together the safety-valve of society, as they are chief
                        among the Christian virtues."
                    "Yes," she said, with a sort of relief in her tone.
                        "There is as much to ask as to grant in that law. I could not quite
                        respect myself if I should deceive any one, and I should feel it a triumph
                        of duty over the strongest bias of my nature if I should thoroughly forgive
                        one who had willfully deceived me."
                    "But you would forgive such an one," he hastily exclaimed,
                        looking almost eagerly into her eyes.
                    "I should feel it incumbent upon me to try with all my
                        might," she responded.
                    "One who would deceive you in a matter of any
                        moment," he observed, with a warmth and vehemence that fairly
                        startled her, "would deserve never to know forgiveness. He would be
                        a monster outside the limitations of the Christian code."
                    "You shouldn't say that," she replied, a pink spot
                        appearing on either cheek. "It would be a great deal  worse to deceive some one more ignorant and
                        much weaker than I. I have had many opportunities, denied to a large number
                        of young women. I ought to know better how to evade the evils of falsehood
                        and deceit."
                    Reynolds did not speak for some minutes. A swell of the fragrant south wind
                        came through the window, and the first mocking bird of the season was
                        singing in a magnolia tree at the further angle of the house. The drowsy
                        charm of spring's earliest stirrings hovered in the sky, the air,
                        the far-spreading fields and the shimmering glimpses of water. Something
                        like the warning of a distant, scarcely audible voice was ringing in his
                        ears. Below his dreamy happiness he could feel the beginnings of a vague
                        uneasiness.
                    "I know, I know," he presently said, and he did not realize
                        the almost brutal directness of his words, "yours was a bitter and
                        burning disappointment. You deserved every thing that you hoped for, nothing
                        that you received."
                    Her face grew pale and flushed at once, so that the spot on either cheek
                        shone like carmine on a milk-white ground. She looked helplessly at him with
                        her lips slightly parted and her eyes beaming, as if through a haze.
                    "Oh, I have pained you!" he exclaimed, with such a penitent
                        and sorrowful intonation that she made a weak effort to smile,
                        "Forgive me," he went on rapidly.  "I seem in an unfortunate groove to-day. You know I
                        would not wound you for the world."
                    "It relieves me that you have said what you have," she
                        replied, after a pause, "for it tells me that you know my past. I
                        wanted you to know, and I could not tell you. I did not see how I ever could
                        begin or how"
                    "Let it pass, let it go by like the wind," he murmured;
                        "the future is all ours, we will make it as pure and lovely as the
                        sky yonder, won't we, love?"
                    She crossed her hands in her lap and smiled on him with tears in her eyes.
                        How grand and beautiful he appeared to her, reclining there, with his
                        stalwart limbs outstretched and his manly face beaming with love. It was a
                        quick, uncontrollable impulse that caused her to say, with a tender tremor
                        in her voice:
                    "I wanted you to know that I loved him and that if he were alive now
                        I would still love him, notwithstanding all that has happened."
                    "Yes, yes that is all right, all right," he quickly
                        responded. "It is sweet of you to feel so; but he ishe is not
                        alive, you know, and"
                    "Sometimes I have dreamed that it is not truethat he is not dead,
                        but may be living yet. I never could get the particulars, the country was in
                        such turmoil and he was so far away. Somehow the thought has haunted me that
                        some day he will come back."
                    A strange grim look settled on Reynolds' face.
                    
                    "He will never come back," he said.
                    "No," she replied, "I know he will not. It is
                        foolish for me to allow the thought to enter my mind, but it will, and I can
                        not drive it out."
                    "You must, Agnes, you must," he exclaimed with a rush of
                        passion, "for my sake, love, for my sake."
                    She sat for a moment in silence, and then, as the tears welled up afresh in
                        her tender eyes, she replied:
                    "You know how gladly I would, but I can not. It grows upon me
                        sincesince I have known you, and it will not be banished. Sometimes I find
                        myself actually going to the door to look"
                    "Hush! Oh, Agnes, I can not bear it," he cried, his face
                        growing pale with extreme excitement. "My God! I shall have to tell
                        you all."
                    "Tell me all?" she plaintively, inquiringly murmured,
                        looking wonderingly at him, for something in his voice, his face, his manner
                        had given to his words a mysterious power.
                    "Yes, I will tell you, though it drive me from you forever. I see
                        that I must, that it is my duty." He paused and hesitated.
                        "I know," he went on, "that I am rushing into the
                        dark, but I trust you, Agnes, and I know you will do rightyou will do no
                        hasty thing. Remember, oh, remember how I love you."
                    "I can not understandwhat is it you mean?what"
                    "No, you can not understand, but you will; it  requires but a sentence." Again he faltered, and with
                        his eyes fixed upon hers in a way that almost terrified her, seemed to be
                        rapidly choosing his words before continuing.
                    "I am the man who fought with your husband, and"
                    "No, no, no!" she exclaimed, holding her hands out toward
                        him, her face ghastly.
                    "Yes," he resumed, "yes, it is so. He was to
                        blame. He forced it upon me. I could not escape him. He would have killed
                        me."
                    She let her hand fall in her lap and sat in a helpless, horrified attitude.
                    "You will hate me now, Agnes, but I have disclosed my secret and my
                        dreadful duty is done. For the sake of my great love, say no bitter
                        word."
                    She did not speak. How could she? Such a disclosure coming so suddenly and
                        unexpectedly and from his lips, crushed her into that silence which is next
                        to the silence of death.
                    He trembled now and his voice broke as he said:
                    "Do you see how hard it is? I refused to fight with him, because I
                        did not believe in the practice of dueling and then he forced an encounter
                        in the street of San Antonio. I did every thing to avoid him, but I could
                        not. I had toto do what I did. Can you comprehend, Agnes?"
                    Still she remained speechless, motionless, bowed down and awfully pale.
                    
                    "I don't want to make any unmanly excusesI would spare him
                        for your sake; but he was all in the wrong, and it would be"
                    She stopped him with a quick gesture.
                    "I can not hear this nowI am too weak and excited. I must go. Excuse
                        me. I must go." She arose almost with a spring
                        and passed swiftly out of the room.
                    A feeling of desolation swept, like a breath of noisome air, through the
                        breast of Reynolds. It was as if the whole world had become a desert and his
                        life a dreary, void waste. And yet there was a sense of relief, as if a
                        great load had been cast aside. A load indeed, but not all the load he
                        carried. He tried in vain to feel that his whole duty was done. He hid his
                        face in his hands, but he could not shut out the truth. His whole past life
                        lay like a fiercely illuminated panorama under his inward gaze. Ah, by what
                        a zig-zag path, through what torments, had been his course! And how he had
                        always panted for happiness! Must it end here? He raised his head and smiled
                        in a way that would have been terrible to see. He clenched his hands, his
                        eyes flamed. All the melodramatic fierceness and fervor of the old South had
                        come upon him. He was ready with desperate courage to fight all the
                    world.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVI.
                    CONVALESCENT.
                    
                        MRS. RANSOM kept her room for several days. The shock she
                        had received from Reynolds'confession carried with it something
                        more than the predicament might at first view imply. She had loved her
                        husband with all that romantic fervor characteristic of girlhood in a warm
                        climate. He was a handsome youth, bright, impulsive, brave, passionate,
                        reckless, holding her to him by that strange fascination, which we all know
                        but can not account for, exerted by the bad over the good. When he had
                        appeared to desert her she was not surprised, and the news of his death by
                        murder saddened without shocking her beyond endurance. With the lapse of
                        time the effect of her trouble had softened and faded; but she had never
                        ceased to remember with a warmth of devotion, more of the imagination than
                        of the heart, perhaps, the lover and the husband of her romantic girlhood.
                        To be sure it had grown to seem no more than a tender dream, that period of
                        love and happiness ending in gloom, but its memory haunted her.
                    Reynolds had in some way thrilled her life with  something more potent than that girlish adoration with which she had
                        honored her boyish husband. His influence over her was so strange and so new
                        to her experience, so sweet and yet so masterful, so overwhelming. His love
                        had shown her how little she had ever known of love before, love in its
                        highest and perfectest development.
                    But this dreadful discoverythis dark, strange confession, fell upon her just
                        at the time when it could have the effect of darkening as with the shadow of
                        both crime and death the whole of her life. It seemed a stroke of fate so
                        malignant, so merciless, so far-reaching, so unutterably terrible.
                    Reynolds suffered, but not as she did. He was gloomy, impatient, restless,
                        but his wound continued to heal rapidly and his bodily strength hourly
                        increased. His physical constitution was so elastic and vigorous that
                        nothing, it seemed, could long disturb its equilibrium. Mentally, however,
                        he was a man of extremes, surging to the furthest stretch of the tether in
                        whatever direction impelled. Now he was in the deepest pit of despondency.
                        The whole light of life had gone out.
                    As if to render his state more dreary by contrast, the weather waxed with
                        sudden fervor into all the golden splendor of a semi-tropical spring. A
                        sprinkling of pale green tassels and tender leaflets appeared on certain
                        deciduous trees, and the grasses peculiar to 
                        the region began to shoot up bright spikes in the warmer spots of the brown
                        fallow fields. A dainty woody odor pervaded the air and the mocking birds
                        and brown thrushes sang gayly in the old trees about the mansion. The sky
                        assumed a hue of such rich, tender azure as is observed nowhere save in the
                        low country in especially favorable weather. And the river (what stream is
                        more beautiful than the Alabama?) seemed to go by with some rhythmic impulse
                        but half repressed in its broad, almost silent current.
                    Left much alone during these days, Reynolds naturally enough indulged in
                        retrospection; but his thoughts rarely went further back than to that
                        tragedy in the far West which had let fall upon his life the almost
                        insufferable shadowa shadow rendered doubly dense by its effect upon his
                        present prospects. Often his gloomy reflections stopped at the mountain
                        cabin and lingered with its inmates. The face and form of Milly White, once
                        so meaningless to him, were rapidly assuming a significance that would not
                        be ignored. Even his deep passion for Agnes Ransom and the brooding dread of
                        its hopelessness now, could not shut away the accusing, vaguely insistent
                        eyes of the little mountain girl. The isolation of that lonely plantation
                        house gave him no sense of separation from the sources of his trouble.
                    One day, it was quite early in the morning, Uncle Mono, the old negro
                        musician, came along in the plat below the window of the room in which
                        Reynolds sat,  and chancing to glance up,
                        doffed his dilapidated hat and said:
                    "Mo'nin', boss, how's ye comin'
                        on dis mo'nin', sah?"
                    "Oh, very well, Uncle Mono, thank you," responded Reynolds,
                        smiling mechanically down on the black, wrinkled face so queerly ornamented
                        with its shocks of almost snow-white wool. "How is Uncle
                        Mono?"
                    "Po'ly, boss, po'ly. Got some 'flictions
                        in de spine ob de back, an' los' my ap'tite some.
                        Ole dahkey no 'count no mo' no how. Done see all my
                        bes' days long 'go, boss."
                    Mono had a long-handled hoe on his shoulder. He was a sturdy, well-fed
                        looking old fellow, with any thing but unhappiness in his shrewd, deep-set
                        eyes.
                    "What are you up to this morning, Mono?" Reynolds idly
                        inquired, leaning at ease on the window-sill.
                    "Gwine ter plant some watermillions, boss; got some pow'ful
                        good seed yah, got 'em outer a watermillion what wus a million
                        fo' sho'. I allus hab a fine patch, boss, kase I neber
                        plants no po' seed. Yo 'member de book say: `Yo'
                        reaps what yo' sow, an' ef yo' sows de
                        win' yo' reaps de whirlwin'
                        sho'.'"
                    "That is a true saying, Mono," said Reynolds. "It
                        holds good in the matter of all kinds of crops."
                    "Now yo's a gittin' ter de marrer ob de
                        subjec', boss. "Tain't many young men see it dat
                        way, do'. Dey mos'ly sow a little ob de win'
                        jes' fo' ter see how it 
                        wo'k'. but de way dey cotchcs hell fo' it at de
                        end ob de row am cunnin' ter see. I knows all 'bout it,
                        boss; I's ben dah, I has.
                        'Spec' you's ben poo'ty rap'td,
                        too, boss, yo' got do gallopin' cut o' de eye. I
                        knows a rus'ler w'en I see 'im. Yo' no
                        slow-goin' creeter, boss, yah! yah! yah! yah-h-h!" The old
                        wretch chuckled and guffawed, as if his sayings had stirred his feelings
                        boisterously. The active wrinkles in his face made it ludicrously
                        expressive. Reynolds made no response.
                    "I kin tell w'en I see a young feller, whedder he like de
                        spo't er sowin' a leetle win' an' kinder
                        hanker fo' de 'citement ob de whirlwin'.
                        Yo' no spring chicken, boss, yo's 
                    "Be off, you old vagabond! stormed General DeKtiy's
                        military voice from somewhere among the shrubbery.
                    "Vag'bon', vag'bon',
                        I's no vag'bon, no mo' 'n some white
                        folks I knows ob," Uncle Mono muttered, very careful that the
                        general should not hear him, and then shuffled away to plant his melon
                        seeds.
                    The sort of flattery intended to be conveyed by the old negro's
                        expressions fell with a peculiarly disagreeable effect upon the mine! of
                        Reynolds. It seemed quite devoid of the humor which Mono by his nods and
                        winks and grimaces had meant to enforce. It had come like a direct,
                        malignant, personal accusation, all the more disagreeable on account of its
                        source. He gazed out across the little plat and through the treetops  beyond toward the patches of blue skey,
                        without noting any of the softness and beauty of the view. It chafed him
                        immeasurably that he could see no escape from his tormenting situation. What
                        was the use of struggleing against the pressure? He felt all the verve and
                        force of life slipping out. He was not weaker than most men whose passions
                        are deep and turbulent and whose imagination is fervid and flexible. He
                        passed esily from one extreme to another. He could not dally on the middle
                        ground. Looking back now, he saw no good in all his past life, and looking
                        forward he felt no expectation of good in the future. With his arm resting
                        along the window-sill and his head drooping across it, he did not hear the
                        light foot-fall on the floor. A hand was passed over his hari. When he
                        turned Mrs. Ranson stood near him, with her sweet blue eyes bent with a
                        measureless meaning of love upon him. He almost shrank from her at first,
                        then he would have clasped her, but she eluded him and sat down in a chair
                        beyond his reach.
                    "You are appearing so much better," she said, with a little
                        constraint in her voice, but not disclosing any excitment. Her beautiful
                        face was a trifle pale and there were faint, dusky lines under her eyes.
                    "Yes, I am nearly well, I hope," he replied, abetting her
                        in the effort to make the occasion have a common-place appearance.
                    "It is such sweet weather. Do you hear my mocking  birds?" she inquired, trying to
                        smile, "They have been having a stormy concert."
                    "Yes, they have had a real war of song all the morning," he
                        answered.
                    A long space of silence ensued, during which they heard Uncle Mono chanting
                        an African ditty to a lagging, melancholy tune, while he worked in his patch
                        some distance away. Presently Reynolds almost abruptly said:
                    "You have been ill, your aunt says. I am so glad you are with me
                        again. I have been lonely andand sad. I was afraid you were worse than your
                        aunt would acknowledge."
                    "It is all over now," she replied with a short, repressed
                        sigh, "Do you feel strong enough to walk out? The morning is very
                        inviting,"
                    "It is a happy thought," he almost cheerily responded,
                        rising and taking up his hat; "let us go out at once, I am tired of
                        being indoors, despite the good nursing I have had."
                    They passed into the broad hall, where she took from a table her hat, on
                        which the twisted sprig of mistletoe still remained, just as he had fixed it
                        on the day of the shoot, and thence they went forth among the magnolia trees
                        on the front lawn.
                    "One can never quite lose sight of the river here," said
                        Reynolds; "see how it shines under the boughs yonder.
                        Isn't it fine?"
                    
                    "Have you noticed that the gentle roar it had some weeks ago is
                        almost silenced?" she asked.
                    "I had not, but I do now," he answered; "what is
                        the cause?"
                    "It has fallen so low that its current is too sluggish, I suppose;
                        but Uncle Mono and the rest of the negroes have a pretty saying that the
                        river sings till the mocking birds begin, and then it becomes silent in
                        order to listen to their voices."
                    "That is a poetical idea."
                    "They have a more grotesque one about the moon crossing the
                        river."
                    "What is that?"
                    "They claim that if one takes a skiff and goes to the middle of the
                        river, exactly at midnight when the moon is full, one may see the moon in
                        the water making all sorts of wry faces at the moon in the sky."
                    "I have observed that myself," said Reynolds, very gravely.
                    "The moon making faces?" she exclaimed with a little smile,
                        looking inquiringly up into his face.
                    "Yes, the skiff or the wind breaks the surface of the water into
                        ripples which cause the reflection of the moon to appear to do all manner of
                        fantastic things."
                    "Oh, I understand it now. I had never thought of that."
                    "But," she added, after a moment of silence, "it
                        would be cruel to explain away Uncle Mono's fanciful  legend or myth of the Alabama and the moon.
                        Don't you think so?"
                    "The old scamp is not so ignorant," said Reynolds.
                        "It would not be so easy as you might imagine to destroy his
                        stories. He would have plenty of expedients for evading the demonstrations
                        of natural philosophy."
                    "I should hope he would," she said, "for there is
                        something fascinating in all his grotesqueries. They seem to have a smack of
                        genuine African wildness of poetry in them."
                    They sat down on a low wooden bench, mossy with age and exposure to the
                        weather, under a grand magnolia tree. Here they were in the full tide of the
                        breeze with all the freshness and fragrance of the morning around them. The
                        dingy old house, so large and plain and yet so picturesquely Southern, was
                        just sufficiently removed to be nearly lost in its vines and trees. Reynolds
                        felt some sort of dread lest their conversation should fall away from the
                        lightness with which it had beguna dread almost betrayed when he said:
                    "Can't you think of another negro conceit? I am sorry I
                        spoiled the one about the moon."
                    "They have a story of the owl and the magnolia bloom," she
                        answered, after a pause. "They say that the big laughing owl comes,
                        in his wisdom, every spring, when the buds of the magnolias are just on the
                             point of opening, and says to the tree: `
                        Hold fast, hold fast; if you speak now you'll lose your influence
                        for a whole year,' but the tree does not heed the wise counsel. It
                        opens its lips (the petals of its flowers) and spills its perfume. Then the
                        owl laughs dismally and the tree has no more perfume for a year."
                    "That doesn't sound much like a thought of savage origin.
                        It has a weak touch of civilization in it somewhere."
                    "Oh, the negroes have gathered liberally from us, no
                        doubt," she said, reflectively stirring some dry leaves with the
                        toe of her tiny boot.
                    It vexed him that this action reminded him of Milly White. He rubbed his
                        forehead to try to dissipate the thought. Perhaps there was, scarcely known
                        to himself, a deeper reason for his irritation in the consciousness that
                        they both were beating against the wind to reach some common ground from
                        which they might banish forever any allusion to what they felt must always
                        remain a dreary memory. After a long silence, Mrs, Ransom, with the outright
                        courage of her womanly sense of what was for the best, did not hesitate to
                        approach the point.
                    "This thing, that you told me of the other day, must be our secret.
                        The world has no right to it. I have considered it from every point of view
                        possible to me, and I can see no other safe or proper course. Am I
                        right?"
                    
                    Reynolds was startled by the steadiness and firmness of her voice and manner,
                        but he clutched eagerly at the comfort of her suggestion, so like an echo of
                        his own thought.
                    "I am glad to hear you say that," he replied. "I
                        was on the point of saying it myself. Let us bury the subject forever. It is
                        one of the inscrutable turns of fate over which we never had control. It is
                        in the past. Let it stay there."
                    "I thought at first that I could not bear it, but it came to me,
                        after the first shock, that you are the one most burdened and that I ought
                        to help you," she responded, with an infinite tenderness in her
                        voice, "I know you were not to blame."
                    "God knows how true that is, and how I love you," said he,
                        in a husky accent, his cheeks pale with intense feeling, his eyes burning
                        strangely.
                    Her face was turned somewhat from him, and as he looked at its fine profile
                        and gentle grace of expression, he upbraided fate with unutterable rebuke
                        because he had not been allowed to see and know her before any ill had
                        befallen her. How little he understood the value that trouble and sorrow had
                        added to her charms. He thought of nothing but the pathetic aspect of her
                        experiences and the effect of her past and his upon the present and the
                        future. He chafed under the conviction that this secret which they now held
                        between them would never fall back among those cast aside things  that form the rubbish of the past, but would
                        stay close to them ready to come into view at any unguarded moment. In fact,
                        would they not have to keep always this common burden well in view in order
                        not to allow the cover to fall from it?
                    "Does your shoulder pain you? "she asked; but she knew that
                        it was an older and more dangerous hurt that caused the pallor in his
                        cheeks.
                    "No, it is coming along finely," he answered, with an
                        effort at cheerfulness. "I shall be going away in a few
                        days."
                    "Not so very few; you are not strong yet."
                    "Oh, yes, I am beginning to feel quite like myself, and my wound is
                        almost healed,"
                    "I shall miss you when you are gone," she said, with a
                        little smile, "You have been my patient so long."
                    "Do you imagine that I can stay away? Don't you know that I
                        will be back surprisingly soon? How can I live where you are not,
                        Agnes?"
                    Just a hint of color suffused her cheeks. She dropped her eyes in a charming
                        way, with that girlish air disclosing itself in her outlines, and yet some
                        indefinable expression of great trouble remained.
                    "You will find the mountains delightful at this time of the
                        year," she said. "The spring is very forward. The
                        wild-flowers will be out and the mountain-slopes will be growing
                        green."
                    
                    "But there is nothing left for me up there. Moreton is gone, the
                        Nobles are gone: it will be very lonely."
                    "Then why go at all? Stay with us as long as you can," she
                        said, with all the old navet in her voice. "The bass-fishing is
                        beginning, uncle says, and you and he can enjoy it together. The spring
                        fishing is very fine here."
                    "That will insure my return," he said, with the first
                        laugh. "But I shall have to go up to Birmingham and look after some
                        affairs. They are running a coal-switch into some of my lands, and I must
                        see to leasing some of the best veins."
                    "Such lands must be quite valuable. Have you a large
                        amount?" she asked, but she could not have told why.
                    "have a great many acres, but the extent of the coal deposits
                        remains to be ascertained. I have been offered a large sum for the estate,
                        however."
                    "I can't visit Birmingham any more, now that Cordelia is
                        gone, I wish she could have staid. She is a charming friend," she
                        said, with that inconsequence which is so apparent in written conversation,
                        but which runs unnoticed through the oral intercourse of even the best
                        talkers.
                    "A few daysa week, at furthestWill set all my things to
                        rights," he continued, "And then, if I may, I will come
                        back toto try the bass with General De Kay."
                    
                    It is by such bridges of straw that many a gulf is spanned; but who can
                        successfully laugh at the structure, no mutter how fragile, if it is able to
                        serve the purpose for which it is built? Happy is he who can at will bind
                        together or hold apart the incidents of life with the almost imperceptible
                        gossamer threads of tact.
                    At the end of an hour they had managed to forget themselves somewhat, and it
                        was with a feeling closely akin to annoyance that Mrs. Ransom read on a card
                        brought to her by a servant" MALLORY BERESFORD."
                    "Mr. Beresford has come," she said, a decided flush corning
                        into her cheeks, "and wishes to see me. I shall have to go, I
                        suppose. Will you return to the house now?"
                    "No, I will get some more air. You will come back, won't
                        you, when he is gone?"
                    "Yes; that is, if he doesn't stay too long,"
                        answered she with a bright smile.
                    Reynolds let his eyes follow her lithe and supple form as she walked briskly
                        toward the house. She was carrying her hat in her hand and there was a bit
                        of bright ribbon fluttering back over one shoulder and down her back, under
                        her dark coil of hair. Touches of the Southern, the warm, the dusky, the
                        dreamy, filled in the spaces of the picture beyond and around and over her.
                        The light brush of her feet, in the crisp, fallen leaves and tufts of grass,
                        came back to him, and  along with it a thrill
                        sweeter and more mournful than any chord of the olian harp. He shook
                        himself, drew his hand across his face, arose and strolled idly about under
                        the trees.
                    "It is worth a great effort," he was thinking,
                        "and I shall succeed. Life gives up its measure of happiness at
                        last to the brave and earnest. The past shall not mold my future and hers. I
                        will take her and go abroad. She shall forget, among the beauties and
                        interesting changes of travel, all this foolish panorama that our
                        imaginations have made out of the coincidents and calamities for which
                        neither of us is to blame. Oh, we shall be happy yet!" He held his
                        head high and his eyes flashed with mingled hope and defiance.
                    When he thought of Milly White he added: "I shall not forget to
                        repay her for all her faithfulness and childish affection."
                    Faithfulness and childish affection! Faithfulness and childish affection! the
                        echo went ringing away into the remotest nooks of his consciousness. For a
                        time he struggled hard and finally he hurled memory aside to give himself
                        wholly up to forming plans for the future. But no one is vigilant enough to
                        keep unwelcome guests long out of the chamber of his brain. They fit in so
                        swiftly at any chance opening. How giant strong and yet how furtive and
                        silent they are!
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVII.
                    DREAMS AND PLANS.
                    
                        REYNOLDS lingered in the pleasant shadows of the magnolia
                        trees, now slowly walking to and fro, now resting on some one of the old
                        lichen-grown seats, his thoughts oscillating between the past and the
                        future. He was aware, but not vividly, of how aimless and cowardly his life
                        until now had been, and he was not quite sure that, no matter how strong
                        might be his present purpose, the cowardice did not still linger with him.
                        One thing he did realize perfectly: that he had not told the whole truth to
                        Agnes Ransom. He might have avoided killing her husband had he been prompted
                        by the highest moral motives. If before the act he had been as willing to
                        fly from San Antonio and go bury himself in the lonely depths of Sand
                        Mountain as he was after the blood was on his hands, he could to-day look up
                        into the bright sweet sky and feel no load on his heart. But then, Heaven
                        forgive the thought, Agnes could not have been his! It was with a dull,
                        almost stolid sense of the gloom and hopelessness of his situation that he
                        at the same  time pondered the possibilities
                        of the future. Throughout his consciousness, too, independent of the past or
                        the future, the present fact of Agnes Ransom's love for him
                        diffused itself with constantly increasing power, warmer, more vitalizing,
                        more glorifying than sunshine and spring-tide and virile health combined. He
                        knew and he did not know that he was trying to deceive himself and the woman
                        he loved. He was aware and he was not aware that all his reasoning regarding
                        the future was sophistry and that the things of the past were not dead. He
                        smiled there under the dusky trees as if he were a guileless youth in the
                        sweet wonder of his first love. He held his head high. Had he not flung all
                        weights of memory behind him and set his eyes on a fair and calm future?
                        Yes, he was going to be happy. He was already happy. He would take Agnes far
                        away, beyond the sea, where no hint of the past could ever come. At length
                        he caught a distant glimpse of Beresford going away, and then a little
                        thrill of pity stole into his bosom. The man looked lonely, even at that
                        distance, and moved as if bearing a burden of trouble, or so at least
                        Reynolds' imagination colored the apparition.
                    Mrs. Ransom did not come forth immediately. She had borne the interview with
                        firmness, and had tried to soften with such art as she could command the
                        wound she was forced to inflict. Beresford was a gentleman as well as a man,
                        and whilst he had urged  his plea with all the
                        passion of a strong nature, he had taken his final dismissal with the
                        dignity of a courageous, if not lofty soul.
                    When he was gone, the reaction upon Mrs. Ransom's sensitive and
                        already sorely taxed nerves was more than she had expected, and she went to
                        her room and cried. It seemed so bitter a thing to do to one so earnest and
                        honorable and gentle.
                    Reynolds saw the traces of tears on her face, when at last she did come out
                        to look for him, but he avoided saying anything to call up an explanation.
                        She told him the story, however, in her straightforward, simple way,
                        acknowledging her regret and her tears, and ending with some outright praise
                        of Beresford's worthiness.
                    "I am sorry he came," said Reynolds. "I felt for
                        him when I saw him going away; but what else could you do?"
                    "Did he look sad?" she inquired with perfect navet, a sweet
                        sorrowfulness in her voice.
                    "Oh, I couldn't tell, be was too far off,"
                        answered Reynolds. "It will all come right. We will not allow our
                        imaginations to follow him. I must tell you my plans. I hope they will be
                        your plans too."
                    She lifted her eyes to his but did not speak.
                    "First of all, Agnes," he went on, "will you be my
                        wife? "The words fell dryly, strangely on her ear.
                    They were standing close to a tree and she was 
                        lightly leaning against the bole. She felt a quick but vague sense of fear,
                        or something akin to it, strike coldly into her heart.
                    It was inexplicable, an almost irresistible impulse toward flight took hold
                        of her. She could not speak. Something forbade it.
                    "Answer me, Agnes: you will marry me, won't you,
                        love?" His voice was low and appealing.
                    Her trepidation and weakness were but momentary. She mastered herself by a
                        strong effort, and, with a brave, earnest smile, put both her hands in his.
                    "Yes, I will marry you," she said.
                    He lifted the hands swiftly and kissed them, then he led her to one of the
                        seats.
                    "I have been planning such a delightful life for us," he
                        began, and with passionate eloquence went on to disclose his idea of their
                        going abroad, for a time at least, to live in Italy or Switzerland or
                        France, together, for each other, the blissful life of love.
                    Her imagination responded readily to his eloquent descriptions, and her face
                        was soon aglow with enthusiastic interest. She had always dreamed of foreign
                        travel, and the subject was one into which she could cast herself with all
                        the abandon of a child. He saw with delight how his proposition pleased her,
                        and he talked with a freedom and earnestness that were irresistible. They
                        were now very happy lovers indeed, and the time sped on golden wings until a
                        servant  came to call them to luncheon. They
                        had slipped away from the troubles that had haunted them into the true realm
                        of the youngthe rosy region of dreams.
                    The mid-day meal at the DeKay place was not, as is, perhaps, the prevailing
                        custom on plantations, the principal one. Dinner came on early in the
                        evening and was all the more enjoyable on account of the delightful
                        temperature of the hour throughout most of the year.
                    Late in the afternoon a young gentleman from an adjoining plantation came
                        down the river in a little boat to make a friendly visit. He had been one of
                        the guests on the day of the shoot, a dapper, talkative youth whose fund of
                        good spirits made him welcome at all times. He liked wine and tobacco, was
                        somewhat of a horseman and never tired of discussing questions of angling
                        and field sports. Of course General DeKay, who cared for nothing so much as
                        such companionship, would not let him return until after dinner. His name
                        was Lapham. The Laphams were a fine old familynearly all the Alabama
                        families below the mountains are reported to be fine and oldand he retained
                        in his speech and manner much that was ultra old and Southern, along with
                        certain strong traces of quite modern "slang and snap," as
                        it is called.
                    He sat next to Mrs. Ransom at table, entertaining her and the rest with an
                        account of some recent races  at New Orleans,
                        or Tuscaloosa, or somewhere, that he had been to see. There had been a row
                        among some sports ending in one being killed.
                    "It was a mean murder," he remarked, "the man was
                        given no show. I hope the law will be swift, as in the case of your man,
                        Colonel Reynolds."
                    Reynolds looked at him with quick inquiry and Mrs. Ransom's face
                        showed the shrinking of her feelings.
                    "Oh, they got him below Selma and hanged him," added Lapham
                        in answer to the question in Reynolds' eyes. "They made
                        short work of it: caught him and strung him up to the first tree."
                    "I haven't read the papers for several days," said
                        General DeKay. "They lynched him, did they? Hanging is the popular
                        thing now."
                    "Yes," answered Lapham. "He deserved it, I
                        believe. It was a bad case. Killed a young fellow who had just been married.
                        Loved the girl himself, it is said, and did the deed out of sheer revenge,
                        because she took the young man in preference to himself. The circumstances
                        were atrocious. The young wife is reported to have lost her reason on
                        account of the affair."
                    There came a depressing silence over the little group at the table. Mrs.
                        DeKay made haste to change the topic of conversation to one she was sure
                        would interest the gentlemen.
                    "Have you tried the trout since this fine weather has  come?" she asked, addressing Lapham.
                        "I should think the angling might be good now."
                    The mention of trout (bass are called trout in the South) set the young man
                        in the midst of one of his favorite elements. He began at once to tell how
                        he had killed a four-pounder that very morning. He always killed
                        four-pounders. "It was the gamiest fish I ever hooked, I think,a
                        regular savage. I toiled with it a full half hour before I could land it. At
                        one time it had out nearly a hundred yards of line and I thought I never
                        should get it checked up. If it had gone a little further my rod or my
                        lineone would have suffered. It was jolly sport."
                    "I must rig up my tackle and try the river to-morrow," said
                        the General. "Are you strong enough to join me, Colonel Reynolds?
                        Of course you will come down, Mr. Lapham?"
                    "I am sorry," answered Reynolds, "but I fear my
                        shoulder is too tender. I am quite anxious to get well, and to that end must
                        heed my doctor's advice."
                    "I will join you, General," said Lapham with eager
                        readiness. "This morning's taste has made me ravenous for
                        another round with the finny beauties."
                    "What flies are best here?" inquired Reynolds, thinking of
                        something else.
                    "Oh, we use minnows," said Lapham, "though I have
                        had success with a bob of deer-tail hairs and red feathers. The trout
                        won't rise to a regular fly."
                    
                    "Up in the mountains I find the `Doctor' and the brown
                        hackle very killing," said Reynolds. "I have had rare
                        sport in the smaller streams. The bass there are quite as game as brook
                        trout."
                    "The mountain fish are like the mountain crackers: game but not over
                        wise," Lapham quickly responded, with an intonation meant as a
                        guaranty of the originality of his humor.
                    "Neither would be easily handled by a novice, I grant you,"
                        said Reynolds with a peculiar smile.
                    Lapham laughed merrily. The retort pleased him better than his own venture.
                    "I was up in the mountains last winter deer hunting," he
                        said, "and there's one thing I can testify to in behalf of
                        those crackers: they are very hospitable and obliging; they seem to think
                        they can't do too much for one. But the women! It kept me in a
                        state of chronic melancholy to see the poor things."
                    "Their life is a lonely, dreary, hopeless one," replied
                        Reynolds, "but they are good, and as true as steel."
                    "Yes, no doubt they are good, I know they are kind, and all that.
                        They asked me to smoke with them and called me sonny!"
                    "Did you go when they called you?" the General asked, with
                        the ready familiarity of old acquaintance.
                    "Yes," said Lapham, "I recognize the fitness of
                        the appellation."
                    Reynolds was thinking of Milly White. She was, in  his mind, unseparable from any idea of the mountains and their
                        people. He felt an impulse to resent, as personal to her, every suggestion
                        made at the expense of the mountaineers. He could see her now, standing by
                        the little gate gazing down the crooked, stony road, patiently watching for
                        his return. He strove to brush aside the reflections that began to crowd
                        into his brain, and with the help of Lapham's skipping levity and
                        the unusual volubility of General DeKay's talk, he at last
                        succeeded in hiding his uneasiness and lack of sympathy with the quiet
                        merriment of the occasion.
                    Mrs. Ransom appeared to be lighter-hearted than at any other time since the
                        adventure at the ruin. Her face was touched with a charming color and she
                        followed Lapham's shallow chatter with smiling attention. It was
                        from her that Reynolds finally caught the ability to forget himself and to
                        fall into the spirit that ruled the rest of the company. Once engaged, he
                        put forth his powers with good effect. For Lapham's benefit he
                        described the Derby and the Grand Prix, a pigeon shoot in
                        England where the stake was a thousand pounds, angling in Scotland and some
                        hunting adventures in Algiers. From sport he easily drifted to art and from
                        art into the ever wonderful and fascinating scenery of Switzerland and
                        Italy. It was Agnes who led him on to speak of Paris and Rome, the two
                        cities of every young woman's dream. She was full of the thought of
                        going with him to the old  world. It was
                        intoxicating her. How far away it would bethat life beyond the seafrom the
                        dreary, sorrowful pool of her narrow and bitter experience! That night in
                        the quiet of her chamber she thought it all over, and she was dreaming of it
                        when next morning the mocking-birds awoke her, Reynolds, too, went to his
                        room with an almost light heart. From his window he saw Lapham, with a
                        little sail set, go up the river before the night breeze, in the light of a
                        crescent moon that hung over in the west.
                    "I will return to Birmingham to-morrow," he thought. He was
                        in haste to get his affairs all arranged and then come back and persuade
                        Agnes to name the earliest day possible for their marriage. He felt a mighty
                        impatience, as if each moment endangered the cup of happiness now bubbling
                        at his lips.
                    But the thought of going back to the mountains chilled him. Why need he go at
                        all? Why should any sordid consideration enter into the discussion of his
                        plans? Had he not already shut out of his life the dreamy hermitage and all
                        that pertained to it? He tried to imagine a line drawn across the past at a
                        point on this side of all his unprofitable experiences, a line over which he
                        would teach his memory not to cross. Could he not, by a supreme effort of
                        will, tear wholly away from his old self, as from a chrysalis sheath, purify
                        himself and spend the rest of his days in the summer atmosphere of a calm
                        and peaceful  life? How it tormented him to
                        perceive his lack of genuine courage and sincerity in this exacting crisis!
                        He tried not to know that his new hopes and desires were not borne up by an
                        underswell of true repentance. The selfishness of mere regret and remorse
                        taunted him insidiously, whilst the happiness that beckoned him on was
                        tricked in sensuous tinsel-tints, the exponents of a very low power of good.
                        He struggled fiercely, silently, fighting down in detail the troops of
                        phantoms that beset him. Finally he cheated himself into believing, or
                        feigning to believe, that he had gained the victory. The field is clear, he
                        thought, I am a man once more.
                    Strangely enough his mental struggle ended in confirming instead of rejecting
                        the thought of returning to Birmingham at once and closing out his interests
                        there. After all, why should he hesitate? What possible objection existed?
                        How could he be affected? He brushed it all aside as sheer sentimentality
                        unworthy of consideration. He could not assume to be responsible for every
                        body who had chanced to come within the radius of his life. What is a man
                        here for, save to forge his own way to happiness?
                    And so he rushed from one extreme to the other, wholly unable to see the fine
                        straight line of right, wholly unwilling bravely to assume the
                        responsibility of lifting the burden his own hands had packed and bound. Not
                        see the right! Yes, he saw it at last, 
                        clearly enough he thought. Reparation, reparation. He would right all the
                        wrongs he had done. He would do good all the rest of his life. Kindliness,
                        charity, blessings. He would leave a trail of good deeds behind him wherever
                        he should go. The poor should remember him and the afflicted should feel the
                        touch of his tenderness. With Agnes beside him, with her pure soul to
                        influence and encourage him, to what a height of unselfishness he might
                        rise. He smiled and felt reassured. All was well.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVIII.
                    REALITIES.
                    
                        THERE is no phase of life so steadfast and at the same
                        time so tricksy and variable as what is called being in love: the current is
                        all one way and yet its force appears to act in every direction. Love sets
                        for itself impossible tasks with a perfect confidence, attempts any height,
                        and, alas, too often is willing to delve in the mire and dregs of things
                        with the hope of finding one glittering grain of its desire. No doubt
                        supreme passion and supreme happiness lie far apart. Form, color, sound,
                        perfume and whatever appeals through them, may constitute, we know not to
                        what extent, the values of passion. Happiness is not so clothed that its
                        substance is covered or its footing invisible. It appeals to the conscience
                        more than to the senses. One may say: I am happy, and go delightedly through
                        the giddy rounds of the little whirlwinds of pleasurable emotion, but he is
                        all the time conscious of the vacuum and lack of equilibrium that have
                        caused the unusual excitement. He is vaguely or otherwise mindful of the
                        fact that he is indulging a delusion. His conscience argues that
                        steadfastness, poise, evenness and certainty are the foundation stones  of happiness. Too often these foundation
                        stones seem to lie far away, so that, like the old poet, one cries out:
                        "Oh, had I the wings of a dove!" Reynolds and Agnes had
                        fixed their eyes on this distant place where, amid new scenes and strange
                        people, the temple of their love might become the dwelling-place of
                        immeasurable happiness. And why should they not realize this dream? They
                        were young, strong and loving. He had wealth sufficient for a life of
                        reasonable luxury, and was not their secret their own? Over and over again
                        the argument was made and the pleasing conclusion reached.
                    It was a comfort to them both to reiterate their expressions of confidence in
                        the future; for all the time there lurked a doubt somewhere on the outer
                        boundary of their field of thought, a doubt each hoped the other did not
                        know of. Not that either questioned the purity or perfectness of the
                        other's love, that was impossible, but this dark secret of the past
                        seemed to link them together on an insecure footing which might give way at
                        any time, plunging them into an abyss of irremediable suffering. It mattered
                        not how far away or how shadowy this doubt was, or how often it seemed to be
                        utterly driven off, the lesion it caused to the tissue of their love-dreams
                        was incurable and therefore dreadful, notwithstanding its obscurity. It
                        might be forgotten for a time, even for a long time, but it could not be put
                        away wholly and forever.
                    
                    However, love takes all risks, braves all dangers, attacks every obstacle.
                        There was no longer hesitation, even if the doubt would linger. They were
                        impatient to embark upon their voyage to love's land, as they
                        imagined it, somewhere beyond the sea. They laughed, they sang, they
                        exchanged sweet, airy utterances of passion, as did the birds in the green
                        mazes of the tree-tops above them. They made the most of the moments.
                    "`Clar' ter goodness!" muttered Uncle Mono, whose
                        eyes were not so old that he failed to note the wooing.
                        "`Clar' ter goodness! Ef de young boss haint a
                        rus'ler den I dunno nuffin'. W'y he done kotch de
                        pore leetle missus, same lak er hawk ketch um bird. She not hab time ter
                        squeak 'fore she gone! Mebbe it turn out de bes'
                        kin', I dunno, but seem lak dar's somefin'
                        'sterious sorter bodderin' my min' 'bout
                        it Wha' dat boss come f'om, anyhow? an'
                        wha' he gwine ter go to, I'd lak ter know? But
                        he's er rus'ler, sho's you bo'n, he is!"
                    General DeKay and his wife saw how matters were drifting, too, and they
                        discussed the probable outcome with many doubts and misgivings. They were
                        not persons fond of borrowing trouble, however, and they did not know of any
                        objection to Reynolds. In fact, the General had grown to like him very much.
                        Moreton had told them that Reynolds was wealthy and of a good family, and
                        had let fall a great many apparently 
                        accidental references to his friend's good qualities. There seemed
                        to be no foundation upon which to base an objection, no plausible reason for
                        interference, so the love-passage was left to be worked out to its ending,
                        whatever that might be.
                    Reynolds got ready to go to Birmingham. The DeKay place was about two
                        hours' drive from Montgomery over a level country highway. So on
                        the morning set for his departure a carriage stood ready at the gate in
                        front of the lawn. He had taken formal leave of General DeKay early in the
                        morning when that sport-loving planter was on the point of joining Lapham in
                        an excursion for bass. The General had warmly urged him to return soon, so
                        as to test the qualities of the fish in the Alabama, and he had readily
                        accepted the invitation. Now he was lingering on the veranda with Agnes,
                        who, dressed in a pale blue morning gown and flushed with the sweet emotions
                        that filled her breast, was looking her loveliest. Her blue eyes had lost
                        for the time all traces of the quiet sadness they had so long harbored, and
                        were beaming with a tender, happy light. She stood up erect and strong, her
                        slender figure, with its softly rounded outlines, poised with such grace as
                        always suggests a reserve of abundant elasticity and youthful alertness.
                        Whoever had studied her face at that time would have declared that its
                        expression was in every way witchingly girlish, simply and charmingly
                        beautiful, full of truth and earnest faith  in
                        the right; but he would not have called it an intellectual face, or one
                        indexing a strongly developed character. She would make a good wife, he
                        might have said, a trusting, gentle, ever-loving, ever-faithful companion,
                        the comfort of a strong man, the sweet light of a home; but she could never
                        be any thing more.
                    "A week, love, and then" said Reynolds, pausing to look
                        fondly down into her eyes.
                    "And then you will come back to me," she quickly replied,
                        "I know you will, and I shall wait for you and think of you every
                        minute of the time."
                    "Oh, you must not worry about me, or be impatient. The days will
                        soon slip by. Take good care of yourself and"
                    "You are the one who needs that advice," she urged,
                        "for your wound is not entirely well, you know. Do be very, very
                        careful, for, foryou are very dear to somebody now!"
                    He would have kissed her then, but Uncle Mono very unopportunely made his
                        appearance around the corner of the veranda. Mono was old and wise. He knew
                        that the departure of a guest from the house was the golden moment for a
                        servant possessing his liberal opportunities. The lifting force of
                        emancipation from slavery had not raised his pride above the level of those
                        tricks which, in his days of bondage, had served to soothe his palm with
                        pieces of silver, and even of  gold sometimes,
                        tossed from the lavish, careless hands of visitors whom he had waited upon.
                        He came shambling along with his old hat in his hand, bowing very low and
                        grinning the grin of the trickster who is sure that his trick must win. As
                        he came near he said:
                    "Berry sorry yo' gwine away, boss, berry sorry. Hope
                        yo' not fo'get ole Mono when yo' done gone,
                        'Cessful journey to yo', boss,"
                    "Thank you, Uncle Mono, I can never forget you. Did you ever play
                        base-ball, Mono? "said Reynolds.
                    "Nah, sab, do'n know nuffin' 'bout
                        dat," answered the old man, shaking his head and executing some
                        ludicrous grimaces. "I nebber plays nuffin'
                        'cep'n' de fiddle an' de banjer,
                        an' I'se gettin' so ole an'
                        'flicted dat I can't play dem to no good. Old Mono
                        mos' run he ye'thly co'se, boss."
                    "You're not springy and active, then, Mono, You've
                        lost the use of yourself pretty nearly, I suppose?"
                    "Dat's it, boss, dat's it. Ole man all cripple up
                        wid 'fliction an' ole age. No 'count any
                        mo'. He done los' all he sperit."
                    "Well, Mono," said Reynolds very gravely, taking some
                        pieces of money from his pocket, "if you'll catch this
                        dollar when I throw it to you, I'll give you another."
                    Mono prepared to use his hat.
                    "No, no," exclaimed Reynolds, laughing,
                        "I'll not  have that! Put
                        down your hat and use your hands. Now, here it comes,"
                    No cat, leaping out of the summer grass to catch a low-flying sparrow, ever
                        displayed more nimbleness and adroitness than did old Mono in catching that
                        dollar. It fell upon his dusky palm with a clear slap and immediately found
                        its way into his trowsers pocket.
                    "Yah, yah, yah! let de oder 'n come, boss, I's
                        ready for 'm!" shouted the old fellow in great delight.
                    "You're an intolerable fraud, Mono," said
                        Reynolds, tossing him another dollar, "your afflictions are of the
                        kind the good people sing about, that `are oft in mercy sent;' a
                        few more of the same sort would make a famous acrobat of you."
                    "Fanky, boss, fanky; tole yo' dat yo' wus a
                        rus'ler, did'n' I? Goo'by, boss,
                        'cessful journey to yo', sah."
                    "Good-by, Mono, we'll go a fishing when I come
                        back," Reynolds called after him, as he rapidly retreated.
                    "All right, boss, I go wid yo'. I show yo'
                        wha' dey is, she's yo' bo'n.
                        Goo'by!"
                    The morning breeze was singing in the vines that clothed the heavy columns of
                        the tall veranda, and its gentle current tossed some loose tresses across
                        Mrs. Ransom's happy face. It was time for Reynolds to be on his
                        road, but he faltered whenever he undertook to say the word of parting. Yet
                        a minute or two, he  would think: I will make
                        up for the lost time when I get started. She had never appeared so beautiful
                        as now, never so happy, never so loving.
                    "Walk down to the gate with me," he presently said:
                        "it will give me a happy send-off on my journey, to look back and
                        see you standing there watching me as I am going out of sight among the
                        shadows of the wood.'
                    They spent a long time passing over the space between the veranda and the
                        gate. Here they paused to dally beside a bed of hyacinth or there to note
                        how wonderfully large the violets were. A touch of childishness, or
                        thoughtlessness (or was it that artlessness which comes of complete
                        self-forgetfulness?) made their actions amusingly interesting to Mrs. DeKay,
                        who watched them from the window.
                    The colored driver was perched upon his high seat in front of the DeKay
                        landau and the team of chestnut mares was ready for the road. There was
                        plenty of time left in which to reach Montgomery so as to take the north
                        bound train.
                    "Agnes," Reynolds murmured, "you must be ready to
                        set an early day for our marriage by the time of my return. We shall want to
                        sail as early in June as possible. I have not yet spoken to your uncle and
                        aunt, but I shall as soon as I return."
                    She was silent, but it was a silence just as satisfactory to her lover as any
                        words could have been.
                    The barbaric imagination, always a part of the negro,  must have been aroused in the driver as he lounged in his seat
                        and gazed at the beautiful woman and the tall, strong man straying down the
                        walk. Their figures were boldly relieved against the dull gray background of
                        the old house, and framed in with vines and magnolia boughs. He had a vivid
                        though savagely crude sense of the warmth and tenderness and freshness of
                        the picture. His indolent, half-closed eyes and shining, jet black face were
                        expressive of that dreamy phase of delight which is generated by mere
                        passive receptivity. The delicate blue of Mrs. Ransom's dress, the
                        charming bloom of her face and the supple grace and strength of her slender
                        figure were to him as a star is to a poet, a mystery, a focus of
                        unapproachable glory, never to be any nearer or any further away. He felt,
                        without knowing it, all the aesthetic values of the scene before him; the
                        cloudless, tender sky, the rich green of the magnolias, the wind-beaten and
                        rain-stained old mansion all wrapped in semi-tropical vines, the flare of
                        the sunlight and the soft glooms of the shade, and, beyond the house and the
                        trees, the sheeny reeds and the broad, winding river, all these with the
                        fresh perfumes and delicious spring wind, touched him and 
                            
                                "Passed like a glorious roll of drums
                                Through the triumph of his dream."
                            
                         He saw, he felt, he enjoyedwhat more could his lazy. basking nature
                        crave?
                    
                    The parting was commonplace enough, a mere clasping of hands, strong, hopeful
                        smiles and good-by. It could not be less, it might outwardly have been more,
                        if the driver had not been there.
                    "You will come soon."
                    "Very soonin a few days."
                    The carriage, a sort of open landau, began to move, and Reynolds sitting in
                        the rear turned and furtively flung back a kiss.
                    She was already beginning to grow pale, but she touched her lips with her
                        fingers and waved him adieu with a bright smile.
                    He kept his eyes upon her, as the distance gradually grew, and, so absorbed
                        was he, it startled him when the vehicle suddenly came to a stand-still.
                    "Wha' do Gin'l DeKay lib?" called out the
                        driver of a carriage whose way lay opposite to theirs.
                    "Jis back ya' leetle ways," answered
                        Reynolds' driver.
                    "All right, I fought so; much 'bleeged."
                    Both carriages moved again. In passing Reynolds saw a slender, picturesque
                        looking man, whose yellowish hair fell in profuse curls about his neck and
                        shoulders. He wore a broad-brimmed, light colored hat and a close-fitting
                        semi-military suit of gray.
                    It was a most irritating thing that this man and his vehicle should whisk
                        into the line of Reynolds' vision and entirely hide Agnes from him.
                        He craned his  neck and tried to look over or
                        past that wide slouch hat and those slender, curl-covered shoulders, but it
                        was impossible.
                    "Damn the fellow!" he muttered. "Stop a moment,
                        Dan," he called to the driver.
                    The mares were drawn up and the carriage came to a stand-still in a moment.
                        Reynolds waited impatiently, hoping that some slight swerve in the road
                        would give him one more glimpse of the blue dress and shining face. He felt
                        that he could not thus abruptly and unauspiciously lose sight of her. But
                        the road was straight and the vehicle kept well in the middle of it until it
                        neared the gate of DeKay Place, where it turned and stopped.
                    Mrs. Ransom was there, with her face toward him. He snatched out his
                        handkerchief and waved it rapidly to and fro, but before he could get any
                        response from her, the young man had got out of his carriage and placed
                        himself in front of her, so that she was completely eclipsed.
                    Reynolds uttered some phrase expressive of bitter disappointment. His driver
                        turned a surreptitious look of wonder and inquiry upon him, but dared not
                        speak when he saw that Reynolds was looking at what was going on at the
                        gate. Naturally enough the negro shrewdly suspected that here was a little
                        play of rivalry between two gentlemen, and that he had better not interfere.
                    
                    As Reynolds leaned over the back of the seat and looked, there was a sudden
                        movement made by the stranger that for a moment left Agnes in plain view,
                        and he saw her throw up both hands and heard her cry out. Then the man
                        clasped her and held her in his arms. Something in this scene startled
                        Reynolds strangely, he hardly knew why, and he hurriedly commanded the
                        driver to drive back to the gate.
                    "Quick, Dan, make the horses go; hurry, I say!" he added in
                        a voice rough with excitement. There was a cold feeling in his breast, as if
                        a damp, chilling breath had blown through it, and a heavy weight seemed
                        pressing on his brain.
                    In less than a minute the gate was reached and Reynolds had leaped to the
                        ground. The man had let Mrs. Ransom go, and the two were standing facing
                        each other. Both looked excited. She was very pale, but showed no sign of
                        weakness, holding herself erect and steady. She turned her eyes upon
                        Reynolds, as he came near, and made a movement with her lips, as if
                        speaking, without emitting any sound. The man, who appeared to be an
                        invalid, trembled a little and did not take his eyes off her face, even for
                        an instant, but gazed at her with such yearning in his expression as would
                        have touched the coldest observer. He had taken off his sombrero, holding it
                        in his hand, and the light wind was tossing his long ringlets about his neck
                        and cheeks. There was that peculiar droop to one of  his shoulders, together with a hollowness of his chest on that
                        side, which indicated that at some time in his life he had been desperately
                        wounded.
                    "Agnes, Agnes, what is the matter?" Reynolds exclaimed in
                        that startled, rasping voice which is common to all men when confronted by
                        an overwhelming trouble. He asked this question involuntarily, aimlessly,
                        for he well understood what all this quiet, terrible scene was about. He
                        knew this man now. It was hard to comprehend how such a thing could be; but
                        this was Ransom standing here, Ransom alive and confronting his wife. Agnes
                        made two or three fruitless efforts before she was able to exclaim:
                    "Oh, JohnMr. Reynolds, go away! Go away! This isthis is my
                        husband!" She did not say this demonstratively or noisilyher voice
                        was low and quite calm, save that she seemed to falter a little.
                        "Oh, I have always thought you were not dead and that you would
                        come back!" she added, turning toward the man with something like a
                        shudder in her tones.
                    "Ransom, is this indeed you?" demanded Reynolds, gathering
                        enough force to crush down his bewilderment.
                    The man turned his eyes upon his interrogator for a second. His stare had in
                        it a mingling of surprise and insolent bravado. Then with a slight start he
                        ejaculated:
                    "Reynolds!"
                    
                    Mrs. Ransom clasped her hands and looked helplessly and beseechingly from one
                        to the other. Her lips quivered pitifully.
                    The two men stared at each other as if unwilling to accept the situation and
                        yet unable to escape it. Each seemed waiting for the other to explain why he
                        was there. It did not once occur to Reynolds that this man had the legal
                        right to Agnes, and that henceforth she must be as lost as if dead. He went
                        no further than to recognize that here was a mystery and a trouble. The
                        catastrophe had been so peculiar and sudden, so lacking in those
                        melodramatic features common to such scenes, that it had a dulling, numbing
                        effect upon his faculties. Ransom was not so bewildered. It surprised him to
                        see Reynolds and it displeased him as well, but he had prepared himself,
                        before coming, for any kind of a scene with his wife; therefore, although
                        excited, he was quite deliberate after the first little start of recognition
                        had spent its force.
                    "I was not expecting to see you," he said
                        with peculiar emphasis. "Nor you me, I suppose."
                    The man's whole manner was sinister and crafty, and yet, at the same
                        time, there was something subdued, something suggestive of long suffering
                        and unmerited injury, in the expression of his face and the attitude of his
                        person. He appeared to Reynolds' startled and distorted vision an
                        incarnate accusation.  The situation might
                        have had a touch of the supernatural in it, if its realism had not been so
                        peculiarly pronounced and unmistakable. The whole affair was a cold, dull,
                        immitigable affair. It did not even rise to the level of romance. It had
                        come as death comes, a stark, overpowering, repulsive result of perfectly
                        inexplicable causes, bearing down before it every thought of resistance or
                        escape.
                    Reynolds had ready no response. The predicament was one which seemed to him
                        malign in its whole bearing, with no room for words of inquiry or of
                        explanation. A sense of suffocation assailed him, as if all those dreams and
                        hopes and delightful anticipations that he had been so luxuriating in
                        lately, had fallen dead in a wilted heap upon his heart.
                    Ransom was a strangely handsome man, with a dash of devil-may-care blended
                        with melancholy in his face. His features were clearly and finely cut,
                        delicate but not effeminate, showing strong traces of suffering, with
                        something of that cool nervousness (if one may so express it) in their play,
                        so often noticed in the faces of gamblers and outlaws. He was rather above
                        the medium stature, well-knit and graceful, erect (saving that slight
                        peculiar droop of one shoulder), alert and well-poised. He turned from
                        Reynolds to Agnes and with the utmost tenderness said:
                    "Come, little wife, I've a long story to tell youa strange
                        story. I have not been so bad as you think. I 
                        have been just the same as dead, four years in a Mexican prison."
                    It was not what he said but the way in which he said it, that made his appeal
                        so very affecting. Reynolds felt a vague thrill of pity. At the same time
                        there came upon him the first shock of genuine realization of the situation.
                        The phrase "little wife," as used by Ransom, enforced its
                        deep significance at once. It struck with a directness that gave no chance
                        for evasion.
                    "Oh, Herbert, Herbert!" cried Agnes, suddenly making a step
                        forward and casting her arms around Ransom's neck. "Oh, is
                        it really, really you!"
                    The lithe little figure in its rustling blue gown shrank close to him and
                        quivered in his embrace. He bent his head and kissed her again and again,
                        his long bright curls falling across her upturned face.
                    Reynolds recoiled as if he had received a blow, then, steadying himself, he
                        looked upon them as one might look into one's own grave.
                        Ransom's voice, murmuring all manner of caressing phrases, was
                        infinitely musical and sweet, but there was that in it which betrayed a
                        weakness not wholly physical, a suggestion of irresponsibility and
                        insincerity.
                    It may have been the effect of long imprisonment, the nature of his wound and
                        protracted mental worry, or it may have been altogether owing to the
                        interpretation he had instantly given to the relationship 
                        
                            "Oh, Herbert, Herbert, is it really, really you!"
                                    Page 244.
                        
                         between Agnes and Reynolds; but from whatever
                        cause, his face was luminous with a pale glow expressive of the most
                        pathetic misery blended with exultation.
                    Reynolds stood like a bronze statue, his eyes burning with a dull fire and
                        his face seamed and shriveled.
                    Ransom clung to his wife, stroking her hair and kissing her cheek. His
                        ecstasy was genuine, but it lacked the force of lofty passion.
                    Presently Agnes freed herself from his embrace, quite as suddenly as she had
                        sought it, as if some revulsion of feeling or some strong conviction of the
                        impropriety of such extreme action had mastered her. She looked at Reynolds,
                        and meeting his gloomy, despairing gaze, let fall her eyes, a quick blush
                        covering her cheeks. In that moment all the force of her surroundings rushed
                        furiously upon her. The blush gave place to a deadly paleness that appeared
                        to affect her face as a white heat. She put up one hand quickly, as if to
                        touch her forehead, but lowered it again, staggered and fell. Both men
                        sprang to her assistance. Reynolds brushed the other aside, as he might have
                        brushed aside some insect. Then lifting Agnes in his arms he bore her to the
                        house. He did this in a mood that eliminated from his thought, for the time,
                        all else save the woman he loved. He carried her without at all feeling her
                        weight, and his movement was so swift that Ransom did not try to keep pace
                             with him; but followed him with slow,
                        feeble steps into the hall and thence into the parlor. But it had not been a
                        swoon, only a mere vanishing from her of strength sufficient to stand. She
                        raised herself to a sitting posture, so soon as Reynolds put her on a sofa,
                        and looked at him with an immediate understanding of what had happened.
                        Ransom had not yet come in.
                    "Where is heHerbert, my husbandwhere is he?" she asked.
                    "Oh, Agnes! Agnes!" cried Reynolds, taking her again in his
                        arms. "It can not be so! you can not, you will not, you shall not
                        give me up for him!"
                    She sprang away from him and stood up pale and firm before him.
                    "Do not touch me again," she exclaimed, in a way that sent
                        the blood in upon his heart. "You have no right. He is my husband.
                        You said he was dead. You saidyouyou deceived metold me a
                        falsehoodyou"
                    "For heaven's sake, Agnes, holddon't say that! I
                        told you true. I thought he was deadI thought I killed himI did not dream of
                        his being alive!"
                    Ransom was standing by now glancing keenly from one to the other. When he
                        spoke it was directly to Reynolds.
                    "If my wife wishes to talk longer with you, well and good, sir, but
                        if not, you must see the propriety of leaving her to me." His
                        manner was suave, but there  was a mighty
                        meaning in his voice and a steely glitter in his eyes.
                    "Leave her to you!" said Reynolds in a
                        white heat of fury, "never!"
                    "You must leave me, and at once," said Agnes firmly.
                    He looked into her eyes as if trying to read the lowest lines of their
                        meaning, but he found nothing to aid him. The love-light had faded and in
                        its stead the cold beam of loveless duty shone out clear and strong. He saw
                        that she was as hopelessly gone from him as if she lay dead in her grave. He
                        stretched out his arms toward her, but quickly withdrew them, not, however,
                        on account of a swift, facile movement of Ransom's hand to the
                        place where a pistol is usually concealed by a man who carries one, for he
                        did not see it, but because her eyes repelled him. There was nothing for him
                        to do but to go away forever. He rushed from the room and from the house.
                        Half way to the gate he stopped and turned about, fixing upon the
                        weather-stained old building a gaze that it would have been awful to
                        contemplate, so intense, so wild, so malignant. His hands were clenched, his
                        lips, so compressed that they seemed welded, were cold and purple. For a
                        mere point of time he was a murderer; but, despite the intervening wall of
                        the house, he could see Agnes clinging to her husband and the mood was flung
                        aside. Her husband! What right had he to 
                        survive that well-aimed shot? What right had he to escape from a Mexican
                        prison and drag his wrecked body and withered soul back here to crush out
                        such a love as that which but an hour ago had lighted up the whole world?
                    It was but a flash of desperate passion, that came and went in an instant,
                        leaving Reynolds all the more helplessly bewildered. What could he do? He
                        stood there rigid, breathless, choking in the impotence of utter
                        irresolution.
                    Again he turned towards the carriage. Far and near in the tender foliage of
                        the trees the mocking birds sang with lusty fervor. The sweet South breathed
                        upon him the warm, odorous breath of love's own clime.
                    Dan the driver, from his seat on the carriage, had watched this melodramatic
                        scene from first to last, so far at least as it was not shut out from his
                        vision, with all the open-mouthed wonder characteristic of a negro under
                        such circumstances. He well knew that the predicament was one of no ordinary
                        sort, and that weighty interests were involved. He had expected every moment
                        to see knives or pistols gleam and flash, but he had been so dazed and
                        scared that he could not have moved to save his life. He sat there gripping
                        the lines and leaning forward in an attitude of painful rigidity, his
                        shoulders elevated and his chin thrust out, lost to every thing but the
                        excitement that had taken possession of him.
                    
                    Uncle Mono, in blissful ignorance of the drama, was down in the little plat
                        of ground devoted to his melon vines, stirring the sandy loam with a hoe and
                        singing a lively camp-meeting song. The two silver dollars given to him by
                        Reynolds had made him very happy indeed.
                    Reynolds took no note of any thing around him. The sunshine, the bird-songs,
                        the voice of the merry old freedman and the dying rustle of the now almost
                        motionless air did not reach his senses. Again and again he stopped as if to
                        rush back, his arms twitching, his face rigid, but all the time he was half
                        aware that fate was binding him more firmly each moment. Already the sweet
                        life of the past month had receded into the far, hazy distance, as if its
                        sphere had whirled away to the remotest region of space, almost beyond the
                        reach of his vision, and with it all the best of his nature, leaving him
                        groveling and baffled, a clod on a barren field.
                    "Drive me to Montgomery as fast as you can go, Dan," he
                        said to the driver as he reached the gate and entered the landau.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIX.
                    WHITHER?
                    "DRIVE fast, Dan, I am in a great hurry,"
                        said Reynolds, as the mares again moved gently along the road in the
                        direction of Montgomery.
                    The negro waved his whip above the backs of the spirited animals, starting
                        them into a rapid trot. The wheels made little noise on the light sandy
                        surface over which they whirled. Reynolds sat bolt upright, looking neither
                        to the right nor to the left, his vision introverted. He was calm as marble,
                        so far as outward appearance went, and inwardly there was no commotion, but
                        a cold, dull, smothering sense of defeat and despair.
                    The woods on either side of the road were dull and soundless, save that,
                        where the tall clumps of pines shot above the rest of the trees, their tops
                        let fall a mellow roar which the slightest breeze has power to awaken in
                        their frondous meshes.
                    The negro presently began to sing, in a strangely melodious undertone, an
                        old, old Alabama ditty:
                    
                    
                        "Oh, poor Lucy Neal,
                        Oh, poor Lucy Neal,
                        And if I had you by my side,
                        How happy I would feel!"
                    
                    Reynolds started, clenched his hands and began to breathe hard.
                    "Dan," he cried, "drive back, drive back, I
                        can't bear it!"
                    Dan pulled up the mares and turned round in his seat:
                    "What yo' say, boss?" he inquired, touching his
                        hat and but half repressing his surprise.
                    "Turn round and drive back. Be quick, make them go: do you
                        hear?"
                    "Yah, sah," answered Dan. A flush had sprung into
                        Reynolds' cheeks in response to his sudden resolve. How could he
                        ever have thought of abandoning her in this cowardly way? She is mine, he
                        thought, she loves me, he has no right to her now: I will go back and claim
                        my own with a force that shall be irresistible.
                    "Drive faster, Dan, do you hear, drive faster!"
                    "Yah, sah, boss."
                    The mares put themselves forth to their utmost, gladly reaching back toward
                        home. For a minute or two Reynolds was wholly in the power of this new mood.
                        But it passed as suddenly as it had come, and again, with redoubled weight,
                        the load of despair returned.
                    
                    "Hold up, Dan, hold up!"
                    "Yah, sah." Dan once more brought the equipage to a
                        standstill.
                    Flickering expressions of hesitancy, faltering and giving up of hope, played
                        for a brief space of time on Reynolds' face, before he could say:
                    "Turn again: drive to Montgomery."
                    "By jiffs!" muttered Dan, sotto voce,
                        "is de boss done gone 'stracted?"
                    He obeyed the order, however, not caring to risk the consequences of any open
                        symptoms of disapproval. He was well aware that a storm was pent up in
                        Reynolds' bosom, and he dreaded lest the slightest slip should turn
                        its blasts and buffets loose upon him.
                    "Faster, can't you, Dan?" urged the heavy rasping
                        voice behind him, and the half-frightened negro touched the spirited team
                        with the whip. Away they flew, at what horsemen call a three-minute pace,
                        flashing through the spaces of sunshine and sweeping over the long stretches
                        of shade, until the open country was again reached, where, between
                        straggling worm fences, the road cut across vast fertile plantations.
                    At length in the distance, crowning a swell of billowy, irregular land,
                        Montgomery appeared, with its clay-red streets slanting up between long
                        lines of gnarled trees and its house-roofs and church-spires struggling
                        through the greenery of vines and orchards, and the gloom of old dusky
                        groves. On the highest point the grayish 
                        white, rectangular capitol, with its heavy columns and diminutive windows,
                        gleamed bare and almost barn-like, in contrast with the embowered and
                        picturesque residences surrounding it.
                    Just before they entered a street of the city, they met Beresford and another
                        gentleman going toward the country in an open road wagon. They had their
                        guns and dogs. Beresford bowed and lifted his hat. Reynolds returned the
                        salute, rather from force of habit than from any real notice given to the
                        courtesy, but the incident took his thoughts back past the drear defeat of
                        to-day, to the sweet victory of that short period now glimmering as if on
                        the uttermost horizon of memory.
                    "Drive directly to the railroad depot, Dan," he said, and
                        all the way through the city he sat calmly erect, like some thoughtful
                        professional man going to his office.
                    It was some time past noon when they reached the station and there was no
                        train until after nightfall.
                    Reynolds gave Dan a liberal reward in money.
                    "Good-by, Dan," he said, "don't drive the
                        mares so fast going back: they appear tired."
                    "Pow'ful hard on 'em, boss, a rushin'
                        'em dis way an' dat way an' a makin'
                        'em go der bes' licks all de way, up hill an'
                        down. By jiffs, but I's erfeared dey'd drap afo'
                        dey got yer, boss!"
                    Reynolds turned away and began walking back and  forth on the station platform. A beautiful reach of the Alabama river lay
                        in full view, under high bluffs of chocolate-colored clay, and the breeze
                        came over the water sweet and cool.
                    Dan mounted to his seat and prepared to drive up into the city, where he
                        intended to get something to eat for himself and horses.
                    "Hold a moment," called Reynolds, taking a pencil and a
                        small memorandum-book from his pocket, "wait till I write a few
                        words." He began rapidly writing, then stopped and tore up the
                        leaf, looked aimlessly about for a time and turned abruptly off, saying in a
                        strangely dry voice:
                    "Never mind: good-by, Dan."
                    The carriage rolled away, the sound of its wheels on the street coming back
                        to his ears in gradually diminishing clacks, reminding him that the last
                        fragile link that had connected him with the old plantation was broken. He
                        walked across the railroad tracks and sat down on a breezy point of the
                        bluff overhanging the river. There was something in the river, there was
                        something in the wind, the water, the sky and the wide horizon that cooled
                        the fever in his blood for the time and set his brain to work with less
                        confusion. His long years of hermit life had developed in him the habit of
                        self-communion to such an extent that it required solitude to reduce his
                        distracted faculties to something near their normal relations. We who view
                        from the mere  artist's standpoint
                        the operations of those influences that control the destinies of men,
                        sometimes see a hideous stroke of humor in the doings of fate. Tragedy and
                        comedy lie so close to each other, that a mere change of intonation in the
                        reading of a line may determine the difference between them. So, in reality,
                        what under one light is incomparably tragic may, under another, appear
                        trivial and almost comic. Beresford's failure with Agnes Ransom,
                        though just as final and conclusive, seems a small thing beside the
                        overwhelming disaster that fell upon Reynolds in the same field, and yet one
                        might say: failure can go no further than failure: Beresford lost all, how
                        could Reynolds lose more? Is it really a more hopeless and tragic thing to
                        love and be loved and lose than to love and not be loved and lose? Was it
                        the difference between the men, or the circumstances, that enabled Beresford
                        to take pleasure in a friend, his dogs and his gun, whilst Reynolds sat
                        dreary-hearted, wretched, unconsolable, with folded hands and bowed head,
                        alone by the river? This set of questions may not be solved by any artistic
                        analysis. The solution is in the bold impression of the facts caught at a
                        glance by every one who has any considerable reach of human sympathy.
                    When at last Reynolds grew calm enough to examine the situation somewhat in
                        the light of cold reason, he saw that Agnes, not himself, must bear the
                        heaviest load of any one connected therewith. He knew that  she loved him and that, loving him, she would
                        devote the rest of her life to one whom she could not love, but to whom the
                        laws of man and of duty, and every dictate of a pure conscience, bound her.
                        Viewing it thus, his life seemed to end in a cul-de-sac.
                        It had been a barren life, for the most part, so far, even worse than
                        barren; it had been evil in no small degree. Conscience leaped upon him and
                        shook him as a wild beast shakes and worries its prey. He felt its fangs and
                        welcomed the agony they inflicted, as a relief from the terrible numbness
                        that had taken possession of him and beside which any pain was pleasure.
                    It was almost dark when he went back to the station and entered the little
                        waiting-room, where Dan had deposited his traveling-bag, and sat down on a
                        bench to wait for the train. Several persons were there, impatient to be
                        going, as travelers by rail usually are, but Reynolds was not in sympathy
                        with their mood. He felt no concern about the train, whether ten minutes or
                        ten hours late. Why should he not be just as content while waiting for a
                        train as while doing any thing else? What more interest was it to him to be
                        going than it was to be staying? The thought of the cabin and its household,
                        of White's oddities and humorous absurdities, and of
                        Milly's faithful patience and plebeian sweetness and sincerity, did
                        not draw him: in fact it repelled him. Why go back there at all? Why not go
                        to England and join Moreton, or to Egypt  and
                        engage with Doctor Blank (another friend of his) in his scientific
                        explorations? Then again came conscience, with waving mane and flaming eyes,
                        roaring and baring its fangs. He could see no promise of escape from the
                        torment. But why should he struggle? He got up and walked to and fro, as did
                        the other restless waiters for the train. Strange what tricks the brain
                        plays under every sort of strain and torture. The turmoil of his thoughts,
                        like some tempest-tumbled sea, kept tossing lightly on its surface as the
                        sea might have tossed a cork, those simple rhymes about 
                            
                                "The light of her eyes
                                And the dew of her lips,
                                Where the moth never flies
                                And the bee never sips."
                            
                         He could not help it, any more than he could calm the awful underswell
                        of despair. He was far from feeling any presence of good in all this agony.
                        No sense of a coming purification, as a result of the heat to which his soul
                        was subjected. That his nature was giving way before the intense blast of
                        the furnace, he may have known, but he had no thought of any separation of
                        the little gold of good from the mass of evil. How could he ever again think
                        of trying to do good? What a life of heavenly happiness he had just missed!
                        He clung desperately to the sensuous picture his memory kept before him,
                        reveling in the torture it generated  No
                        thought of the future entered his mind, unless the form of poor little
                        Milly, which now and again appeared to him, might be called a thought. From
                        the outlines of her supple figure and haunting face he shrank with an inward
                        shudder. Then suddenly, by some obscure cerebral operation, a glimpse,
                        momentary but thrillingly sharp and clear, disclosed to him that other
                        extreme of his situation. What a vast are between the two confines of
                        oscillation! Agnes Ransom, Milly White! Now, at last, he felt himself
                        shriveling and wasting in the fire, as the blast from the tuyeres of
                        God's furnace was doubled and trebled. He began to imagine how it
                        all was to end, while some strange, thrilling whisper suggested the outlines
                        of duty. Duty! what did he care for duty! Why should he, whose sweetest
                        hopes had been dissipated by this breath of providence, have any care for
                        the happiness of others? But his rebellion was weak. He arose, as the ears
                        came crashing up to the station, and prepared himself for he knew not what.
                        Almost any thing would be welcome. There seemed to be no place for him save
                        the barren, dreary cabin in the mountains. As he realized this, once more
                        his old arrogant nature flared up. "I will not go there,"
                        he thought, and his cheeks flushed. "I will not be the dupe of
                        circumstance. I will go to the ends of the earth first."
                        Nevertheless, he went aboard the train and took his seat in a car which was
                        well filled with  happy tourists returning to
                        their Northern homes. The first person upon whom his eyes chanced to fall
                        was Miss Crabb. She was busy with her note-book and pencil, her chin drawn
                        down and her brow con tracted with intense thought. He shrank from her, as
                        from something unbearable, and forthwith slipped away into another car.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XX.
                    AFTER ALL.
                    
                        WHITE'S cabin was better than the average
                        Sand-Mountain house, but its surroundings were not so inviting as those
                        where considerable farms, with orchards and garden plats, gave an air of
                        frugal thrift, almost of comfort to the scene, at some points in the lower
                        valleys. It was built of pine logs, split into halves, the flat side turned
                        in, and the apertures between covered with long clap-boards of pine, rove
                        with the grain, and smoothed with a drawing-knife. The chimneys, which were
                        spacious, consisted of pens of split sticks, built from the ground to a
                        little above the roof, and heavily daubed with red clay. An arid little
                        clearing whose stumpy, rain-washed fields lay as if on edge, leaning against
                        the mountain-side, showed that a light crop of tobacco or a doubtful yield
                        of maize "nubbins" would be the best return that labor
                        might hope for from the soilless clay and the dry, lifeless monotony of the
                        mountain summers. This clearing was all on one side of the cabin, reaching
                        down toward the little valley, whilst on the other three sides the forest
                        was unbroken, saving that, further up the 
                        mountain, wind and fire had done their work for ages. The fences about the
                        place were old and neglected, grown over by vines and shrubs of various
                        kinds, and the little gate in front, made of wattled boards, hung askew on
                        rude hinges of hickory withes. Just outside of this gate, between it and the
                        road, was a small space which for many years, ever since the cabin was
                        built, in fact, had been used for piling up, cutting and splitting the wood
                        and pine knots used by the household, and upon which a moldy mass of chips,
                        bark and woody fragments had slowly accumulated. All the native trees near
                        the cabin had long ago been felled, and a few gnarled peach trees now grew
                        in their stead. Standing on the rotten door-sill and looking out across the
                        lower valley, one could have a fine view, over ill-shaped farm-plats and
                        variegated woods, of the broken masses of mountains, near and far, with
                        their beetling cliffs, their clustered foot-hills and their bare stony
                        peaks, all over-canopied with a serene blue sky. But the scene was not one
                        to inspire the beholder with any broad ideas of nature or of human life. It
                        was a dry, cramped, desolate landscape, even in the first fresh colors of
                        spring, when the tassels were on the trees and the wild flowers fairly
                        carpeted the ground, for it lacked fertility, suggestion, promise.
                    Here Milly White had been born and here she had lived to grow from babyhood
                        to womanhood, a wild growth, like that of the native trees, plants and
                        birds.  Physically she was beautiful to look
                        upon, if in looking one could separate the physical from the other form of
                        human beauty; but she was strictly a product of Sand Mountain, the last
                        refinement of its productive forces, no doubt, approaching as near the
                        perfect as nature, working within such limitations and under such hopeless
                        restrictions, could get. It would be impossible to give in words any fair
                        idea of her beauty or of her ignorance; to attempt either would appear like
                        exaggeration. The painter would succeed no better, for his representation
                        could reach no further than pathetic caricature. Her life, her condition and
                        her surroundings composed an instance not far out of the common in Sand
                        Mountain existence. Her beauty, it is true, was exceptional, as beauty is in
                        all cases, her ignorance was somewhat denser than the average, and her
                        experience on Reynolds' account, had compassed its utmost
                        possibility of disturbing force. In so far as her vision could go, she
                        peered into the paradise coveted by all girls, and dreamed the dreams of
                        unselfish love. Every evening she went down to the little gate and leaned
                        upon it, watching long and patiently for the coming of a man, as other women
                        do, and every morning she renewed the vigil for a time, and the evening and
                        the morning were a day. She had but a vague understanding of things too
                        vaguely understood by all girls, and she made of Reynolds no more a god than
                        most young women do of the men they  love. She
                        could not realize her danger and she felt but indefinitely how much she was
                        risking. As days and weeks dragged by and John did not come, she showed
                        signs of nervous restlessness; but she said little. Her health, instead of
                        failing, as might have been expected, seemed to improve. Her face filled out
                        to full womanly proportions, her cheeks gathering rich tints of rose and
                        carmine, her eyes softening and dilating as if with the wonder of some
                        sweet, strange discovery. She hovered, as a butterfly about a flower, over
                        the things in Reynolds' room. For hours she would sit before the
                        sketch on the easel and gaze dreamily, half forlornly at it. She arranged
                        and re-arranged the books, the chairs, the little worn foot-stool, the
                        slippers, the dressing-gown, creeping about as noiselessly as if she feared
                        the least sound might break her reverie. She was lonely, despondent and
                        nervous at times, but she did not complain. White exhausted over and over
                        again his stock of ingenuity in inventing excuses for "thet ther
                        Colonel," who, he insisted, was "a hevin' of sech
                        a roarin' ole time, a shootin' of birds an' a
                        drinkin' of liquor an' a playin' of them ther
                        newfangled games of keerds." White himself had grown strangely
                        uneasy in his manner and his eyes had lost somewhat of their humorous light.
                        It was beginning to confirm itself in his mind that his idol had clay feet.
                        He gave up his confidence in Reynolds inch by inch, so to speak, clinging to
                        it with the dogged stubbornness of his narrow nature.
                    
                    Spring fell upon the mountains some weeks earlier than usual. The old
                        peach-trees were loaded with pale pink bloom and along the ragged ravines a
                        tender green ran in waving veins. Day after day was cloudless and warm,
                        followed by nights of such starry splendor as are seen nowhere save in the
                        Southern mountain regions.
                    One evening Milly was at the gate, as usual, leaning over its uneven slats,
                        gazing down the stony road. Her father came out of the cabin, bare-headed,
                        pipe in mouth, with his hands thrust into his trowsers pockets.
                    "Think he air a comin' to-night, do ye, Milly?" he
                        asked, standing near her and looking aimlessly about. "I
                        shedn't be s'prised ef he'd drop along one of
                        these yer days purty soon. Hit air a gittin' most time for the
                        bird-shootin' ter stop, anyhow."
                    "I dremp las' night 'at he wer' dead,
                        an' 'at's a sign, ye know," she
                        answered, without looking up. "I jes' know 'at he
                        air a comin' purty soon."
                    "Ef ye do see 'im a comin' down the road
                        ther', Milly, an' ye've a min' ter jump
                        over thet gate ther', w'y I shed 'vise ye ter git
                        back yer a leetle an' take a runnin' start so's
                        to be shore not to trip er nothin'." White chuckled dryly
                        at the end of his speech, as if enjoying the scene it suggested; but
                        receiving no reply from the girl his face resumed its look of stolid repose,
                        albeit his eyes wandered restlessly without seeming to see any thing.
                    
                    The sun was down, an hour ago, and the stillness of night had fallen on the
                        wide, rugged landscape. There was scarcely wind enough to bear away the
                        light jets of tobacco smoke puffed sharply now and then from the
                        man's mouth.
                    "I dremp las' night, too, 'at the Colonel he
                        wer' dead, Milly," he presently said; but he did not add
                        that he dreamed that the Colonel had been killed, and by his hand.
                    "I'm jest a lookin' for 'im now,
                        an' a 'spectin' 'im ever'
                        minute," she replied, her voice quavering sweetly, her limbs
                        trembling.
                    White swallowed, as if something hurt his throat, and pressed a finger
                        vigorously into his pipe. The muscles of his face twitched convulsively.
                    "Oh, I consider 'at we'd better go inter the
                        house, Milly," he urged, "for hit air not 'tall
                        s'posible 'at the Colonel he 'll come to-night;
                        but he air comin' shore ter-morrer, that's es sarting es
                        gun's iron, Milly."
                    "Lis'n, pap, I yer somethin' like he wer'
                        a walkin' up the road this yer way: lis'n!" She
                        shook her hand at him in token of silence, but did not turn her head,
                        leaning far over the gate.
                    "Hit ain't him, Milly, he'd be er singin'
                        er song, ef hit wer' him. Don't ye 'member how he
                        used ter warble them cur'us chunes when he wer' a
                        comin'?"
                    "Keep still, I tell ye, pap, for I know 'at I jest do yer 'im a comin' down
                        ther'."
                    
                    "Mebbe ye do, s'pec ye do," said White with a
                        shake of his head, "but hit air ter-morrer 'at ye yer
                        'im a comin'. He air dead shore to roll in ter-morrer.
                        Don't ye fret, he air a comin' 'fore long,
                        Milly."
                    "He air a comin' right now: oh!" she cried, and
                        flinging open the gate, she slipped through like a bird and ran down the
                        road.
                    "I knowed 'at ye'd come, John, oh, John!
                        John!" White heard her say, her voice cutting with shrill sweetness
                        through the still evening air.
                    He went through the gateway, and, stumbling over the wood-pile, walked
                        rapidly after her. Sure enough, there was Reynolds in the middle of the
                        road, with Milly clinging to him. They were in a place where the strong
                        star-light dimly outlined them. White stopped short and actually reeled like
                        a drunken man. He went no nearer to them, but turned and staggered rather
                        than walked back into the cabin.
                    "Hit air all right, mother," he said to his wife as he
                        entered. "He air out ther'the Colonel air."
                    She looked up with a start, for his voice was thick with excitement.
                    "ShesheMilly 'll be all right now. She won't go
                        erstracted now, mother," he added, dropping into a chair and
                        beginning to refill his pipe.
                    THE END
                
            
        
    
