
     ----CITATION---- 
        Dreiser, Theodore, 1871-1945. A Traveler at Forty: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2397
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
            
            
                JOSEPH P. GREAVES.
                "Read this book and please return it. This may seem a strange request,
                    but I have found from experience that while many of my friends are poor
                    mathematicians, they are nearly all good bookkeepers."Scott.
            
            
            
                A TRAVELER AT FORTY
                
            
            
            
            
            
                
                    Piccadilly Circus
                
                
            
            
            
                
                    A TRAVELER AT FORTY
                
                BY
                    THEODORE DREISER Author of "Sister
                    Carrie," "Jennie Gerhardt," "The
                    Financier," etc., etc.
                ILLUSTRATED BY W. GLACKENS
                
                    NEW YORK
                    THE CENTURY CO.
                    1920
                
            
            
            
                Copyright, 1913, by THE CENTURY CO.
                
                    Published, November. 1913
                
            
            
            
                TO "BARFLEUR"
            
            
            
            
                CONTENTS
                
                    I BARFLEUR TAKES ME IN HAND 3
                        
                    II MISS X 16
                        
                    III AT FISHGUARD 24
                        
                    IV SERVANTS AND POLITENESS 32
                        
                    V THE RIDE TO LONDON 37
                        
                    VI THE BARFLEUR FAMILY 47
                        
                    VII A GLIMPSE OF LONDON 57
                        
                    VIII A LONDON DRAWING-ROOM 66
                        
                    IX CALLS 72
                        
                    X SOME MORE ABOUT LONDON 77
                        
                    XI THE THAMES 89
                        
                    XII MARLOWE 95
                        
                    XIII LILLY: A GIRL OF THE STREETS 113
                        
                    XIV LONDON; TIIE EAST END 128
                        
                    XV ENTER SIR SCORP 136
                        
                    XVI A CHRISTMAS CALL 148
                        
                    XVII SMOKY ENGLAND 171
                        
                    XVIII SMOKY ENGLAND (continued) 180
                        
                    XIX CANTERBURY 188
                        
                    XX EN ROUTE TO PARIS 198
                        
                    XXI PARIS! 211
                        
                    XXII A MORNING IN PARIS 225
                        
                    XXIII THREE GUIDES 238
                        
                    XXIV "THE POISON FLOWER" 247
                        
                    XXV MONTE CARLO 255
                        
                    XXVI THE LURE OF GOLD! 264
                        
                    XXVII WE GO TO EZE 275
                        
                    
                    XXVIII NICE 288
                        
                    XXIX A FIRST GLIMPSE OF ITALY 295
                        
                    XXX A STOP AT PISA 306
                        
                    XXXI FIRST IMPRESSIONS OF ROME 315
                        
                    XXXII MRS. Q. AND THE BORGIA FAMILY 327
                        
                    XXXIII THE ART OF SIGNOR TANNI 337
                        
                    XXXIV AN AUDIENCE AT THE VATICAN 345
                        
                    XXXV THE CITY OF ST. FRANCIS 354
                        
                    XXXVI PERUGIA 365
                        
                    XXXVII THE MAKERS OF FLORENCE 371
                        
                    XXXVIII A NIGHT RAMBLE IN FLORENCE 380
                        
                    XXXIX FLORENCE OF TO-DAY 387
                        
                    XL MARIA BASTIDA 398
                        
                    XLI VENICE 409
                        
                    XLII LUCERNE 415
                        
                    XLIII ENTERING GERMANY 424
                        
                    XLIV A MEDIEVAL TOWN 437
                        
                    XLV MY FATHER'S BIRTHPLACE 449
                        
                    XLVI THE ARTISTIC TEMPERAMENT 454
                        
                    XLVII BERLIN 462
                        
                    XLVIII THE NIGHT-LIFE OF BERLIN 474
                        
                    XLIX ON THE WAY TO HOLLAND 486
                        
                    L AMSTERDAM 494
                        
                    LI "SPOTLESS TOWN" 501
                        
                    LII PARIS AGAIN 507
                        
                    LIII THE VOYAGE HOME 515
                        
                
            
            
            
                ILLUSTRATIONS
                
                    Piccadilly Circus 
                            Frontispiece
                        
                        
                    I saw Mr. G. conversing with Miss E 8
                        
                    One of those really interesting conversations between Barfleur and Miss X
                            20
                        
                    "I like it," he pronounced. "The note is
                        somber, but it is excellent work" 70
                        
                    Hoped for the day when the issue might be tried out physically 74
                        
                    Here the Thames was especially delightful 90
                        
                    Barfleur 156
                        
                    The French have made much of the Seine 228
                        
                    One of the thousands upon thousands of cafs on the boulevards of Paris 236
                        
                    These places were crowded with a gay and festive throng 244
                        
                    I looked to a distant table to see the figure he indicated 252
                        
                    "My heavens, how well she keeps up!" 290
                        
                    I sated myself on the house fronts or backs below the Ponte Vecchio 384
                        
                    There can only be one Venice 404
                        
                    A German dance hall, Berlin 464
                        
                    Teutonic bursts of temper 482
                        
                
            
            
        
        
            
            
                A TRAVELER AT FORTY
                
                
                A TRAVELER AT FORTY
                
                    CHAPTER I
                    BARFLEUR TAKES ME IN HAND
                    
                        I HAVE just turned forty. I have seen a little something
                        of life. I have been a newspaper man, editor, magazine contributor, author
                        and, before these things, several odd kinds of clerk before I found out what
                        I could do.
                    Eleven years ago I wrote my first novel, which was issued by a New York
                        publisher and suppressed by him, Heaven knows why. For, the same year they
                        suppressed my book because of its alleged immoral tendencies, they published
                        Zola's "Fecundity" and "An
                        Englishwoman's Love Letters." I fancy now, after eleven
                        years of wonder, that it was not so much the supposed immorality, as the
                        book's straightforward, plain-spoken discussion of American life in
                        general. We were not used then in America to calling a spade a spade,
                        particularly in books. We had great admiration for Tolstoi and Flaubert and
                        Balzac and de Maupassant at a distancesome of usand it was quite an honor to
                        have handsome sets of these men on our shelves, but mostly we had been
                        schooled in the literature of Dickens, Thackeray, George Eliot, Charles Lamb
                        and that refined company of English sentimental realists who told us
                        something about life, but not everything. No doubt all of these great men
                        knew how shabby a thing this world ishow full of lies, make-believe, seeming
                        and false pretense it  all is, but they had
                        agreed among themselves, or with the public, or with sentiment generally,
                        not to talk about that too much. Books were always to be built out of facts
                        concerning "our better natures." We were always to be seen
                        as we wish to be seen. There were villains to be sureliars, dogs, thieves,
                        scoundrelsbut they were strange creatures, hiding away in dark,
                        unconventional places and scarcely seen save at night and peradventure;
                        whereas we, all clean, bright, honest, well-meaning people, were living in
                        nice homes, going our way honestly and truthfully, going to church, raising
                        our children believing in a Father, a Son and a Holy Ghost, and never doing
                        anything wrong at any time save as these miserable liars, dogs, thieves, et
                        cetera, might suddenly appear and make us. Our books largely showed us as
                        heroes. If anything happened to our daughters it was not their fault but the
                        fault of these miserable villains. Most of us were without original sin. The
                        business of our books, our church, our laws, our jails, was to keep us so.
                    I am quite sure that it never occurred to many of us that there was something
                        really improving in a plain, straightforward understanding of life. For
                        myself, I accept now no creeds. I do not know what truth is, what beauty is,
                        what love is, what hope is. I do not believe any one absolutely and I do not
                        doubt any one absolutely. I think people are both evil and well-intentioned.
                    While I was opening my mail one morning I encountered a now memorable note
                        which was addressed to me at my apartment. It was from an old literary
                        friend of mine in England who expressed himself as anxious to see me
                        immediately. I have always liked him. I like him because he strikes me as
                        amusingly English, decidedly literary and artistic in his point of  view, a man with a wide wisdom, discriminating
                        taste, rare selection. He wears a monocle in his right eye, la Chamberlain,
                        and I like him for that. I like people who take themselves with a grand air,
                        whether they like me or notparticularly if the grand air is backed up by a
                        real personality. In this case it is.
                    Next morning Barfleur took breakfast with me; it was a most interesting
                        affair. He was latevery. He stalked in, his spats shining, his monocle
                        glowing with a shrewd, inquisitive eye behind it, his whole manner genial,
                        self-sufficient, almost dictatorial and always final. He takes charge so
                        easily, rules so sufficiently, does so essentially well in all circumstances
                        where he is interested so to do.
                    "I have decided," he observed with that managerial air
                        which always delights me because my soul is not in the least managerial,
                        "that you will come back to England with me. I have my passage
                        arranged for the twenty-second. You will come to my house in England; you
                        will stay there a few days; then I shall take you to London and put you up
                        at a very good hotel. You will stay there until January first and then we
                        shall go to the south of FranceNice, the Riviera, Monte Carlo; from there
                        you will go to Rome, to Paris, where I shall join you,and then sometime in
                        the spring or summer, when you have all your notes, you will return to
                        London or New York and write your impressions and I will see that they are
                        published!"
                    "If it can be arranged," I interpolated.
                    "It can be arranged," he replied
                        emphatically. "I will attend to the financial part and arrange
                        affairs with both an American and an English publisher."
                    Sometimes life is very generous. It walks in and says, "Here! I want
                        you to do a certain thing," and it proceeds to arrange all your
                        affairs for you. I felt curiously  at this time
                        as though I was on the edge of a great change. When one turns forty and
                        faces one's first transatlantic voyage, it is a more portentous
                        event than when it comes at twenty.
                    I shall not soon forget reading in a morning paper on the early ride downtown
                        the day we sailed, of the suicide of a friend of mine, a brilliant man. He
                        had fallen on hard lines; his wife had decided to desert him; he was badly
                        in debt. I knew him well. I had known his erratic history. Here on this
                        morning when I was sailing for Europe, quite in the flush of a momentary
                        literary victory, he was lying in death. It gave me pause. It brought to my
                        mind the Latin phrase, "memento mori." I
                        saw again, right in the heart of this hour of brightness, how grim life
                        really is. Fate is kind, or it is not. It puts you ahead, or it does not. If
                        it does not, nothing can save you. I acknowledge the Furies. I believe in
                        them. I have heard the disastrous beating of their wings.
                    When I reached the ship, it was already a perfect morning in full glow. The
                        sun was up; a host of gulls were on the wing; an air of delicious adventure
                        enveloped the great liner's dock at the foot of Thirteenth Street.
                    Did ever a boy thrill over a ship as I over this monster of the seas?
                    In the first place, even at this early hour it was crowded with people. From
                        the moment I came on board I was delighted by the eager, restless movement
                        of the throng. The main deck was like the lobby of one of the great New York
                        hotels at dinner-time. There was much calling on the part of a company of
                        dragooned ship-stewards to "keep moving, please," and the
                        enthusiasm of farewells and inquiries after this person and that, were
                        delightful to hear. I stopped awhile in the writing-room  and wrote some notes. I went to my stateroom
                        and found there several telegrams and letters of farewell. Later still, some
                        books which had been delivered at the ship, were brought to me. I went back
                        to the dock and mailed my letters, encountered Barfleur finally and
                        exchanged greetings, and then perforce soon found myself taken in tow by
                        him, for he wanted, obviously, to instruct me in all the details of this new
                        world upon which I was now entering.
                    At eight-thirty came the call to go ashore. At eight fifty-five I had my
                        first glimpse of a Miss E., as discreet and charming a bit of English
                        femininity as one would care to set eyes upon. She was an English actress of
                        some eminence whom Barfleur was fortunate enough to know. Shortly afterward
                        a Miss X. was introduced to him and to Miss E., by a third acquaintance of
                        Miss E.'s, Mr. G. a very direct, self-satisfied and aggressive type
                        of Jew. I noticed him strolling about the deck some time before I saw him
                        conversing with Miss E., and later, for a moment, with Barfleur. I saw these
                        women only for a moment at first, but they impressed me at once as rather
                        attractive examples of the prosperous stage world.
                    It was nine o'clockthe hour of the ship's sailing. I went
                        forward to the prow, and watched the sailors on B deck below me cleaning up
                        the final details of loading, bolting down the freight hatches covering the
                        windlass and the like. All the morning I had been particularly impressed
                        with the cloud of gulls fluttering about the ship, but now the harbor, the
                        magnificent wall of lower New York, set like a jewel in a green ring of sea
                        water, took my eye. When should I see it again? How soon should I be back? I
                        had undertaken this voyage in pell-mell haste. I had not figured at all on
                        where I was  going or what I was going to do.
                        Londonyes, to gather the data for the last third of a novel; Romeassuredly,
                        because of all things I wished to see Rome; the Riviera, say, and Monte.
                        Carlo, because the south of France has always appealed to me; Paris,
                        Berlinpossibly; Hollandsurely.
                    I stood there till the Mauretania fronted her prow outward
                        to the broad Atlantic. Then I went below and began unpacking, but was not
                        there long before I was called out by Barfleur.
                    "Come up with me," he said.
                    We went to the boat deck where the towering red smoke-stacks were belching
                        forth trailing clouds of smoke. I am quite sure that Barfleur, when he
                        originally made his authoritative command that I come to England with him,
                        was in no way satisfied that I would. It was a somewhat light venture on his
                        part, but here I was. And now, having "let himself in" for
                        this, as he would have phrased it, I could see that he was intensely
                        interested in what Europe would do to meand possibly in what I would do to
                        Europe. We walked up and down as the boat made her way majestically down the
                        harbor. We parted presently but shortly he returned to say, "Come
                        and meet Miss E and Miss X. Miss E is reading your last novel. She likes
                        it."
                    I went down, interested to meet these two, for the actressthe talented,
                        good-looking representative of that peculiarly feminine world of artappeals
                        to me very much. I have always thought, since I have been able to reason
                        about it, that the stage is almost the only ideal outlet for the artistic
                        temperament of a talented and beautiful women. Men?well, I don't
                        care so much for the men of the stage. I acknowledge the distinction of such
                        a temperament as that of David Garrick or Edwin Booth. These were great
                        actors and, by the same token, 
                        
                            "I saw Mr. G. conversing with Miss E."
                        
                        
                         they were great artistswonderful artists. But
                        in the main the men of the stage are frail shadows of a much more real
                        thingthe active, constructive man in other lines.
                    On the contrary, the women of the stage are somehow, by right of mere
                        womanhood, the art of looks, form, temperament, mobility, peculiarly suited
                        to this realm of show, color and make-believe. The stage is fairyland and
                        they are of it. Womenthe women of ambition, aspiration, artistic
                        longingsact, anyhow, all the time. They lie like anything. They never show
                        their true colorsor very rarely. If you want to know the truth, you must see
                        through their pretty, petty artistry, back to the actual conditions behind
                        them, which are conditioning and driving them. Very few, if any, have a real
                        grasp on what I call life. They have no understanding of and no love for
                        philosophy. They do not care for the subtleties of chemistry and physics.
                        Knowledgebook knowledge, the scienceswell, let the men have that. Your
                        average woman cares mostalmost entirelyfor_the policies and the abstrusities
                        of her own little world. Is her life going right? Is she getting along? Is
                        her skin smooth? Is her face still pretty? Are there any wrinkles? Are there
                        any gray hairs in sight? What can she do to win one man? How can she make
                        herself impressive to all men? Are her feet small? Are her hands pretty?
                        Which are the really nice places in the world to visit? Do men like this
                        trait in women? or that? What is the latest thing in dress, in jewelry, in
                        hats, in shoes? How can she keep herself spick and span? These are all
                        leading questions with herstrong, deep, vital, painful. Let the men have
                        knowledge, strength, fame, forcethat is their business. The real man, her
                        man, should have some one of these things if she is really going to love him
                        very much.  I am talking about the
                        semi-artistic woman with ambition. As for her, she clings to these poetical
                        details and they make her life. Poor little frail thingsfighting with every
                        weapon at their command to buy and maintain the courtesy of the world.
                        Truly, I pity women. I pity the strongest, most ambitious woman I ever saw.
                        And, by the same token, I pity the poor helpless, hopeless drab and drudge
                        without an idea above a potato, who never had and never will have a look in
                        on anything. I knowand there is not a beating feminine heart anywhere that
                        will contradict methat they are all struggling to buy this superior
                        masculine strength against which they can lean, to which they can fly in the
                        hour of terror. It is no answer to my statement, no contradiction of it, to
                        say that the strongest men crave the sympathy of the tenderest women. These
                        are complementary facts and my statement is true. I am dealing with women
                        now, not men. When I come to men I will tell you all about them!
                    Our modern stage world gives the ideal outlet for all that is most worth
                        while in the youth and art of the female sex. It matters not that it is
                        notably unmoral. You cannot predicate that of any individual case until
                        afterward. At any rate, to me, and so far as women are concerned, it is
                        distinguished, brilliant, appropriate, important. I am always interested in
                        a well recommended woman of the stage.
                    What did we talk aboutMiss E. and I? The stage a little, some newspapermen
                        and dramatic critics that we had casually known, her interest in books and
                        the fact that she had posed frequently for those interesting advertisements
                        which display a beautiful young woman showing her teeth or holding aloft a
                        cake of soap or a facial cream. She had done some of this work in the
                        pastand had been well paid for it because she was  beautiful, and she showed me one of her pictures in a current
                        magazine advertising a set of furs.
                    I found that Barfleur, my very able patron, was doing everything that should
                        be done to make the trip comfortable without show or fuss. Many have this
                        executive or managerial gift. Sometimes I think it is a natural trait of the
                        Englishof their superior classes, anyhow. They go about colonizing so
                        efficiently, industriously. They make fine governors and patrons. I have
                        always been told that English direction and English directors are thorough.
                        Is this true or is it not? At this writing, I do not know.
                    Not only were all our chairs on deck here in a row, but our chairs at table
                        had already been arranged forfour seats at the captain's table. It
                        seems that from previous voyages on this ship Barfleur knew the captain. He
                        also knew the chairman of the company in England. No doubt he knew the chief
                        steward. Anyhow, he knew the man who sold us our tickets. He knew the head
                        waiter at the Ritzhe had seen him or been served by him somewhere in Europe.
                        He knew some of the servitors of the Knickerbocker of old. Wherever he went,
                        I found he was always finding somebody whom he knew. I like to get in tow of
                        such a man as Barfleur and see him plow the seas. I like to see what he
                        thinks is important. In this case there happens to be a certain intellectual
                        and spiritual compatibility. He likes some of the things that I like. He
                        sympathizes with my point of view. Hence, so far at least, we have got along
                        admirably. I speak for the present only. I would not answer for my moods or
                        basic change of emotions at any time.
                    Well, here were the two actresses side by side, both charmingly arrayed, and
                        with them, in a third chair, the short, stout, red-haired Mr. G.
                    I covertly observed the personality of Miss X. Here  was some one who, on sight, at a glance, attracted me far more
                        significantly than ever Miss E. could. I cannot tell you why, exactly. In a
                        way, Miss E. appeared, at moments and from certain points of viewdelicacy,
                        refinement, sweetness of moodthe more attractive of the two. But Miss X.,
                        with her chic face, her dainty little chin, her narrow, lavender-lidded
                        eyes, drew me quite like a magnet. I liked a certain snap and, vigor which
                        shot from her eyes and which I could feel represented our raw American
                        force. A foreigner will not, I am afraid, understand exactly what I mean;
                        but there is something about the American climate, its soil, rain, winds,
                        race spirit, which produces a raw, direct incisiveness of soul in its
                        children. They are strong, erect, elated, enthusiastic. They look you in the
                        eye, cut you with a glance, say what they mean in ten thousand ways without
                        really saying anything at all. They come upon you fresh like cold water and
                        they have the luster of a hard, bright jewel and the fragrance of a rich,
                        red, fullblown rose. Americans are wonderful to meAmerican men and American
                        women. They are rarely polished or refined. They know little of the
                        subtleties of lifeits order and procedures. But, oh, the glory of their
                        spirit, the hope of them, the dreams of them, the desires and enthusiasm of
                        them. That is what wins me. They give me the sense of being intensely,
                        enthusiastically, humanly alive.
                    Miss X. did not tell me anything about herself, save that she was on the
                        stage in some capacity and that she knew a large number of newspaper men,
                        critics, actors, et cetera. A chorus girl, I thought; and then, by the same
                        token, a lady of extreme unconventionality.
                    I think the average man, however much he may lie and pretend, takes
                        considerable interest in such women. At the same time there are large orders
                        and schools  of mind, bound by certain
                        variations of temperament, and schools of thought, which either flee
                        temptation of this kind, find no temptation in it, or, when confronted,
                        resist it vigorously. The accepted theory of marriage and monogamy holds
                        many people absolutely. There are these who would never sinhold unsanctioned
                        relations, I meanwith any woman. There are others who will always be true to
                        one woman. There are those who are fortunate if they ever win a single
                        woman. We did not talk of these things but it was early apparent that she
                        was as wise as the serpent in her knowledge of men and in the practice of
                        all the little allurements of her sex.
                    Barfleur never ceased instructing me in the intricacies of ship life. I never
                        saw so comforting and efficient a man.
                    "Oh" who can indicate exactly the sound of the English
                        "Oh""Oh, there you
                        are." (His are always sounded like ah.) "Now let me tell you something. You are to dress for
                        dinner. Ship etiquette requires it. You are to talk to the captain sometell
                        him how much you think of his ship, and so forth; and you are not to neglect
                        the neighbor to your right at table. Ship etiquette, I believe, demands that
                        you talk to your neighbor, at least at the captain's tablethat is
                        the rule, I think. You are to take in Miss X. I am to take in Miss
                        E." Was it any wonder that my sea life was well-ordered and that my
                        lines fell in pleasant places?
                    After dinner we adjourned to the ship's drawing-room and there Miss
                        X. fell to playing cards with Barfleur at first, afterwards with Mr. G., who
                        came up and found us, thrusting his company upon us perforce. The man amused
                        me, so typically aggressive, money-centered was he. However, not he so much
                        as Miss X. and her mental and social attitude, commanded my attention. Her
                        card playing and her boastful accounts of adventures at Ostend,  Trouville, Nice, Monte Carlo and Aix-les-Bains
                        indicated plainly the trend of her interests. She was all for the showy life
                        that was to be found in these placesburning with a desire to glitternot
                        shinein that half world of which she was a smart atom. Her conversation was
                        at once showy, nave, sophisticated and yet unschooled. I could see by
                        Barfleur's attentions to her, that aside from her crude
                        Americanisms which ordinarily would have alienated him, he was interested in
                        her beauty, her taste in dress, her love of a certain continental caf life
                        which encompassed a portion of his own interests. Both were looking forward
                        to a fresh season of itBarfleur with meMiss X. with some one who was waiting
                        for her in London.
                    I think I have indicated in one or two places in the preceding pages that
                        Barfleur, being an Englishman of the artistic and intellectual classes, with
                        considerable tradition behind him and all the feeling of the worth-whileness
                        of social order that goes with class training, has a high respect for the
                        conventionsor rather let me say appearances, for, though essentially
                        democratic in spirit and loving Americaits raw forcehe still clings almost
                        pathetically, I think, to that vast established order, which is England. It
                        may be producing a dying condition of race, but still there is something
                        exceedingly fine about it. Now one of the tenets of English social order is
                        that, being a man you must be a gentleman, very courteous to the ladies,
                        very observant of outward forms and appearances, very discreet in your
                        approaches to the wickedness of the worldbut nevertheless you may approach
                        and much more, if you are cautious enough.
                    After dinner there was a concert. It was a dreary affair. When it was over, I
                        started to go to bed but, it being warm and fresh, I stepped outside. The
                        night was beautiful. There were no fellow passengers on  the promenade. All had retired. The sky was magnificent for
                        starsOrion, the Pleiades, the Milky Way, the Big Dipper, the Little Dipper.
                        I saw one star, off to my right as I stood at the prow under the bridge,
                        which, owing to the soft, velvety darkness, cast a faint silvery glow on the
                        waterjust a trace. Think of it! One lone, silvery star over the great dark
                        sea doing this. I stood at the prow and watched the boat speed on. I threw
                        back my head and drank in the salt wind. I looked and listened. England,
                        France, Italy, Switzerland, Germanythese were all coming to me mile by mile.
                        As I stood there a bell over me struck eight times. Another farther off
                        sounded the same number. Then a voice at the prow called,
                        "All's well," and another aloft on that little
                        eyrie called the crow's nest, echoed it. "All's
                        well." The second voice was weak and quavering. Something came up
                        in my throata quick unbidden lump of emotion. Was it an echo of old journeys
                        and old seas when life was not safe? When Columbus sailed into the unknown?
                        And now this vast ship, eight hundred and eighty-two feet long, eighty-eight
                        feet beam, with huge pits of engines and furnaces and polite, veneered
                        first-cabin decks and passengers!
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER II
                    MISS X.
                    
                        IT was ten o'clock the next morning when I arose
                        and looked at my watch. I thought it might be eight-thirty, or seven. The
                        day was slightly gray with spray flying. There was a strong wind. The sea
                        was really a boisterous thing, thrashing and heaving in hills and hollows. I
                        was thinking of Kipling's "White Horses" for a
                        while. There were several things about this great ship which were unique. It
                        was a beautiful thing all toldits long cherry-wood, paneled halls in the
                        first-class section, its heavy porcelain baths, its dainty staterooms fitted
                        with lamps, bureaus, writing-desks, washstands, closets and the like. I
                        liked the idea of dressing for dinner and seeing everything quite stately
                        and formal. The little be-buttoned call-boys in their tight-fitting blue
                        suits amused me. And the bugler who bugled for dinner! That was a most
                        musical sound he made, trilling in the various quarters gaily, as much as to
                        say, "This is a very joyous event, ladies and gentlemen; we are all
                        happy; come, come; it is a delightful feast." I saw him one day in
                        the lobby of C deck, his legs spread far apart, the bugle to his lips, no
                        evidence of the rolling ship in his erectness, bugling heartily. It was like
                        something out of an old medieval court or a play. Very nice and worth while.
                    Absolutely ignorant of this world of the sea, the social, domestic, culinary
                        and other economies of a great ship like this interested me from the start.
                        It impressed me no little that all the servants were English, and that  they were, shall I say, polite?well, if not
                        that, non-aggressive. American servantsI could write a whole chapter on
                        that, but we have n't any servants in America. We don't
                        know how to be servants. It is n't in us; it is n't nice
                        to be a servant; it is n't democratic; and spiritually I
                        don't blame us. In America, with our turn for mechanics, we shall
                        have to invent something which will do away with the need of servants. What
                        it is to be, I have n't the faintest idea at present.
                    Another thing that impressed and irritated me a little Was the stolidity of
                        the English countenance as I encountered it here on this ship. I did
                        n't know then whether it was accidental in this case, or national.
                        There is a certain type of Englishmanthe robust, rosy-cheeked, blue-eyed
                        Saxonwhom I cordially dislike, I think, speaking temperamentally and
                        artistically. They are too solid, too rosy, too immobile as to their faces,
                        and altogether too assured and stary. I don't like them. They
                        offend me. They thrust a silly race pride into my face, which is
                        n't necessary at all and which I always resent with a race pride of
                        my own. It has even occurred to me at times that these temperamental race
                        differences could be quickly adjusted only by an appeal to arms, which is
                        sillier yet. But so goes life. It's foolish on both sides, but I
                        mention it for what it is worth.
                    After lunch, which was also breakfast with me, I went with the chief engineer
                        through the engine-room. This was a pit eighty feet deep, forty feet wide
                        and, perhaps, one hundred feet long, filled with machinery. What a strange
                        world! I know absolutely nothing of machinerynot a single principle
                        connected with itand yet I am intensely interested. These boilers, pipes,
                        funnels, pistons, gages, registers and bright-faced register boards speak of
                        a vast technique which to me is tremendously impressive. I know scarcely
                        anything of the history of  mechanics, but I
                        know what boilers and feed-pipes and escape-pipes are, and how complicated
                        machinery is automatically oiled and reciprocated, and there my knowledge
                        ends. All that I know about the rest is what the race knows. There are
                        mechanical and electrical engineers. They devised the reciprocating engine
                        for vessels and then the turbine. They have worked out the theory of
                        electrical control and have installed vast systems with a wonderful economy
                        as to power and space. This deep pit was like some vast, sad dream of a
                        fevered mind. It clanked and rattled and hissed and squeaked with almost
                        insane contrariety! There were narrow, steep, oil-stained stairs, very hot,
                        or very cold and very slippery, that wound here and there in strange ways,
                        and if you were not careful there were moving rods and wheels to strike you.
                        You passed from bridge to bridge under whirling wheels, over clanking
                        pistons; passed hot containers; passed cold ones. Here men were standing,
                        blue-jumpered assistants in oil-stained caps and glovesthin caps and thick
                        gloveswatching the manuvers of this vast network of steel, far from the
                        pasenger life of the vessel. Occasionally they touched something. They were
                        down in the very heart or the bowels of this thing, away from the sound of
                        the water; away partially from the heaviest motion of the ship; listening
                        only to the clank, clank and whir, whir and hiss, hiss all day long. It is a
                        metal world they live in, a hard, bright metal world. Everything is hard,
                        everything fixed, everything regular. If they look up, behold a huge,
                        complicated scaffolding of steel; noise and heat and regularity.
                    I should n't like that, I think. My soul would grow weary. It would
                        pall. I like the softness of scenery, the haze, the uncertainty of the world
                        outside. Life is better than rigidity and fixed motion, I hope. I trust the
                        universe is not mechanical, but mystically blind.  Let's hope it's a vague, uncertain, but
                        divine idea. We know it is beautiful. It must be so.
                    The wind-up of this day occurred in the lounging- or reception-room where,
                        after dinner, we all retired to listen to the music, and then began one of
                        those really interesting conversations between Barfleur and Miss X. which
                        sometimes illuminate life and make one see things differently forever
                        afterward.
                    It is going to be very hard for me to define just how this could be, but I
                        might say that I had at the moment considerable intellectual contempt for
                        the point of view which the conversation represented. Consider first the
                        American attitude. With us (not the established rich, but the hopeful,
                        ambitious American who has nothing, comes from nothing and hopes to be
                        President of the United States or John D. Rockefeller) the business of life
                        is not living, but achieving. Roughly speaking, we are willing to go hungry,
                        dirty, to wait in the cold and fight gamely, if in the end we can achieve
                        one or more of the seven stars in the human crown of lifesocial,
                        intellectual, moral, financial, physical, spiritual or material supremacy.
                        Several of the forms of supremacy may seem the same, but they are not.
                        Examine them closely. The average American is not born to place. He does not
                        know what the English sense of order is. We have not that national esprit de corps which characterizes the English and the
                        French perhaps; certainly the Germans. We are loose, uncouth, but, in our
                        way, wonderful. The spirit of God has once more breathed upon the waters.
                    Well, the gentleman who was doing the talking in this instance and the lady
                        who was coinciding, inciting, aiding, abetting, approving and at times
                        leading and demonstrating, represented two different and yet allied points
                        of view. Barfleur is distinctly a product of the English  conservative school of thought, a gentleman
                        who wishes sincerely he was not so conservative. His house is in order. You
                        can feel it. I have always felt it in relation to him. His standards and
                        ideals are fixed. He knows what life ought to behow it ought to be lived.
                        You would never catch him associating with the rag-tag and bobtail of
                        humanity with any keen sense of human brotherhood or emotional tenderness of
                        feeling. They are human beings, of course. They are in the scheme of things,
                        to be sure. But, let it go at that. One cannot be considering the state of
                        the underdog at any particular time. Government is established to do this
                        sort of thing. Statesmen are large, constructive servants who are supposed
                        to look after all of us. The masses! Let them behave. Let them accept their
                        state. Let them raise no undue row. And let us, above all things, have order
                        and peace.
                    This is a section of Barfleurnot all, mind you, but a section.
                    Miss X.I think I have described her fully enough, but I shall add one passing
                        thought. A little experience of Europeconsiderable of its show placeshad
                        taught her, or convinced her rather, that America did not know how to live.
                        You will hear much of that fact, I am afraid, during the rest of these
                        pages, but it is especially important just here. My lady, prettily gowned,
                        perfectly manicured, going to meet her lover at London or Fishguard or
                        Liverpool, is absolutely satisfied that America does not know how to live.
                        She herself has almost learned. She is most comfortably provided for at
                        present. Anyhow, she has champagne every night at dinner. Her equipment in
                        the matter of toilet articles and leather traveling bags is all that it
                        should be. The latter are colored to suit her complexion and gowns. She is
                        scented, polished, looked after, and all men pay 
                        
                            One of those really interesting conversations between Barfleur and
                                Miss X.
                        
                        
                         her attention: She is vain, beautiful, and she
                        thinks that America is raw, uncouth; that its citizens of whom she is one,
                        do not know how to live. Quite so. Now we come to the point.
                    It would be hard to describe this conversation. It began with some
                        "have you been's," I think, and concerned
                        eating-places and modes of entertainment in London, Paris and Monte Carlo. I
                        gathered by degrees, that in London, Paris and elsewhere there were a
                        hundred restaurants, a hundred places to live, each finer than the other. I
                        heard of liberty of thought and freedom of action and pride of motion which
                        made me understand that there is a free-masonry which concerns the art of
                        living, which is shared only by the initiated. There was a world in which
                        conventions, as to morals, have no place; in which ethics and religion are
                        tabooed. Art is the point. The joys of this world are sex, beauty, food,
                        clothing, art. I should say money, of course, but money is presupposed. You
                        must have it.
                    "Oh, I went to that place one day and then I was glad enough to get
                        back to the Ritz at forty francs for my room." She was talking of
                        her room by the day, and the food, of course, was extra. The other hotel had
                        been a little bit quiet or dingy.
                    I opened my eyes slightly, for I thought Paris was reasonable; but not sono
                        more so than New York, I understood, if you did the same things.
                    "And, oh, the life!" said Miss X. at one point.
                        "Americans don't know how to live. They are all engaged in
                        doing something. They are such beginners. They are only interested in money.
                        They don't know. I see them in Paris now and then." She
                        lifted her hand. "Here in Europe people understand life better.
                        They know. They know before they begin how much it will take to do the
                        things that they want to do and they start  out
                        to make that muchnot a fortunejust enough to do the things that they want to
                        do. When they get that they retire and live."
                    "And what do they do when they live?" I asked.
                        "What do they call living?"
                    "Oh, having a nice country-house within a short traveling distance
                        of London or Paris, and being able to dine at the best restaurants and visit
                        the best theaters once or twice a week; to go to Paris or Monte Carlo or
                        Scheveningen or Ostend two or three or four, or as many times a year as they
                        please; to wear good clothes and to be thoroughly comfortable."
                    "That is not a bad standard," I said, and then I added,
                        "And what else do they do?"
                    "And what else should they do? Isn't that enough?"
                    And there you have the European standard according to Miss X. as contrasted
                        with the American standard which is, or has been up to this time, something
                        decidedly different, I am sure. We have not been so eager to live. Our idea
                        has been to work. No American that I have ever known has had the idea of
                        laying up just so much, a moderate amount, and then retiring and living. He
                        has had quite another thought in his mind. The Americanthe average AmericanI
                        am sure loves power, the ability to do something, far more earnestly than he
                        loves mere living. He wants to be an officer or a director of something, a
                        poet, anything you please for the sake of being itnot for the sake of
                        living. He loves power, authority, to be able to say, "Go and he
                        goeth," or, "Come and he cometh." The rest he
                        will waive. Mere comfort? You can have that. But even that, according to
                        Miss X., was not enough for her. She had told me before, and this
                        conversation brought it out again, that her thoughts were of summer and
                        winter resorts, exquisite creations in the way of clothing, diamonds,  open balconies of restaurants commanding
                        charming vistas, gambling tables at Monte Carlo, Aix-les-Bains, Ostend and
                        elsewhere, to say nothing of absolutely untrammeled sex relations. English
                        conventional women were frumps and fools. They had never learned how to
                        live; they had never understood what the joy of freedom in sex was.
                        Moralsthey are built up on a lack of imagination and physical vigor;
                        tendernesswell, you have to take care of yourself; dutythere isn't
                        any such thing. If there is, it's one's duty to get along
                        and have money and be happy.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER III
                    AT FISHGUARD
                    
                        WHILE I was lying in my berth the fifth morning, I heard
                        the room steward outside my door tell some one that he thought we reached
                        Fishguard at one-thirty.
                    I packed my trunks, thinking of this big ship and the fact that my trip was
                        over and that never again could I cross the Atlantic for the first time. A
                        queer world this. We can only do any one thing significantly once. I
                        remember when I first went to Chicago, I remember when I first went to St.
                        Louis, I remember when I first went to New York. Other trips there were, but
                        they are lost in vagueness. But the first time of any important thing sticks
                        and lasts; it comes back at times and haunts you with its beauty and its
                        sadness. You know so well you cannot do that any more; and, like a clock, it
                        ticks and tells you that life is moving on. I shall never come to England
                        any more for the first time. That is gone and clone forworse luck.
                    So I packedwill you believe it?a little sadly. I think most of us are a
                        little silly at times, only we are cautious enough to conceal it. There is
                        in me the spirit of a lonely child somewhere and it clings pitifully to the
                        hand of its big mama, Life, and cries when it is frightened; and then there
                        is a coarse, vulgar exterior which fronts the world defiantly and bids all
                        and sundry to go to the devil. It sneers and barks and jeers bitterly at
                        times, and guffaws and cackles and has a joyous time laughing at the follies
                        of others.
                    Then I went to hunt Barfleur to find out how I should  do. How much was I to give the deck-steward; how much to the
                        bath-steward; how much to the room-steward; how much to the dining-room
                        steward; how much to "boots," and so on.
                    "Look here!" observed that most efficient of all managerial
                        souls that I have ever known. "I'll tell you what you do.
                        NoI'll write it." And he drew forth an ever ready
                        envelope. "Deck-stewardso much," it read, "Room
                        stewardso much " etc.
                    I went forthwith and paid them, relieving my soul of a great weight. Then I
                        came on deck and found that I-had forgotten to pack my ship blanket, and a
                        steamer rug, which I forthwith went and packed. Then I discovered that I had
                        no place for my derby hat save on my head, so I went back and packed my cap.
                        Then I thought I had lost one of my brushes, which I had n't,
                        though I did lose one of my stylo pencils. Finally I came on deck and sang
                        coon songs with Miss X., sitting in our steamer chairs. The low shore of
                        Ireland had come into view with two faint hills in the distance and these
                        fascinated me. I thought I should have some slight emotion on seeing land
                        again, but I did n't. It was gray and misty at first, but presently
                        the sun came out beautifully clear and the day was as warm as May in New
                        York. I felt a sudden elation of spirits with the coming of the sun, and I
                        began to think what a lovely time I was going to have in Europe.
                    Miss X. was a little more friendly this morning than heretofore. She was a
                        tricky creaturecoy, uncertain and hard to please. She liked me
                        intellectually and thought I was able, but her physical and emotional
                        predilections, so far as men are concerned, did not include me.
                    We rejoiced together singing, and then we fought. There is a directness
                        between experienced intellects which  waves
                        aside all formalities. She had seen a lot of life; so had I.
                    She said she thought she would like to walk a little, and we strolled back
                        along the heaving deck to the end of the first cabin section and then to the
                        stern. When we reached there the sky was overcast again, for it was one of
                        those changeable mornings which is now gray, now bright, now misty. Just now
                        the heavens were black and lowering with soft, rain-charged clouds, like the
                        wool of a smudgy sheep. The sea was a rich green in consequencenot a clear
                        green, but a dark, muddy, oil-green. It rose and sank in its endless unrest
                        and one or two boats appeareda lightship, anchored out all alone against the
                        lowering waste, and a small, black, passenger steamer going somewhere.
                    "I wish my path in life were as white as that and as
                        straight," observed Miss X., pointing to our white,
                        propeller-churned wake which extended back for half a mile or more.
                    "Yes," I observed, "you do and you don't.
                        You do, if it would n't cost you trouble in the futureimpose the
                        straight and narrow, as it were."
                    "Oh, you don't know," she exclaimed irritably,
                        that ugly fighting light coming into her eyes, which I had seen there
                        several times before. "You don't know what my life has
                        been. I have n't been so bad. We all of us do the best we can. I
                        have done the best I could, considering."
                    "Yes, yes," I observed, "you're ambitious
                        and alive and you're seekingHeaven knows what! You would be
                        adorable with your pretty face and body if you were not soso sophisticated.
                        The trouble with you is "
                    "Oh, look at that cute little boat out there!" She was
                        talking of the lightship. "I always feel sorry for a  poor little thing like that, set aside from
                        the main tide of life and left lonelywith no one to care for it."
                    "The trouble with you is," I went on, seizing this new
                        remark as an additional pretext for analysis, "you're
                        romantic, not sympathetic. You're interested in that poor little
                        lonely boat because its state is romantic; not pathetic. It may be pathetic,
                        but that is n't the point with you."
                    "Well," she said, "if you had had all the hard
                        knocks I have had, you would n't be sympathetic either.
                        I've suffered, I have. My illusions have been killed
                        dead."
                    "Yes. Love is over with you. You can't love any more. You
                        can like to be loved, that's all. If it were the other way
                        about"
                    I paused to think how really lovely she would be with her narrow lavender
                        eyelids; her delicate, almost retrouss, little nose; her red
                        cupid's-bow mouth.
                    "Oh," she exclaimed, with a gesture of almost religious
                        adoration. "I cannot love any one person any more, but I can love
                        love, and I doall the delicate things it stands for."
                    "Flowers," I observed, "jewels, automobiles, hotel
                        bills, fine dresses."
                    "Oh, you're brutal. I hate you. You've said the
                        crudest, meanest things that have ever been said to me."
                    "But they're so."
                    "I don't care. Why should n't I be hard? Why
                        should n't I love to live and be loved? Look at my life. See what
                        I've had."
                    "You like me, in a way?" I suggested.
                    "I admire your intellect."
                    "Quite so. And others receive the gifts of your
                        personality."
                    "I can't help it. I can't be mean to the man
                        I'm with.
                    
                    He' good to me. I won't. I'd be sinning against
                        the only conscience I have."
                    "Then you have a conscience?"
                    "Oh, you go to the devil!"
                    But we didn't separate by any means.
                    They were blowing a bugle for lunch when we came back, and down we went.
                        Barfleur was already at table. The orchestra was playing Auld Lang Syne,
                        Home Sweet Home, Dixie and the Suwannee River. It even played one of those
                        delicious American rags which I love so muchthe Oceana Roll. I felt a little
                        lump in my throat at Auld Lang Syne and Dixie, and together Miss X. and I
                        hummed the Oceana Roll as it was played. One of the girl passengers came
                        about with a plate to obtain money for the members of the orchestra, and
                        half-crowns were universally deposited. Then I started to eat my dessert;
                        but Barfleur, who had hurried off, came back to interfere.
                    "Come, come!" (He was always most emphatic.)
                        "You're missing it all. We're landing."
                    I thought we were leaving at once. The eye behind the monocle was premonitory
                        of some great loss to me. I hurried on deckto thank his artistic and
                        managerial instinct instantly I arrived there. Before me was Fishguard and
                        the Welsh coast, and to my dying day I shall never forget it. Imagine, if
                        you please, a land-locked harbor, as green as grass in this semi-cloudy,
                        semi-gold-bathed afternoon, with a half-moon of granite scarp rising sheer
                        and clear from the green waters to the low gray clouds overhead. On its top
                        I could see fields laid out in pretty squares or oblongs, and at the bottom
                        of what to me appeared to be the east end of the semi-circle, was a bit of
                        gray scruff, which was the village no doubt. On the green water were several
                        other boatssteamers, much smaller, with red stacks, black sides, white rails
                        and  funnelsbearing a family resemblance to the
                        one we were on. There was a long pier extending out into the water from what
                        I took to be the village and something farther inland that looked like a low
                        shed.
                    This black hotel of a ship, so vast, so graceful, now rocking gently in the
                        enameled bay, was surrounded this hour by wheeling, squeaking gulls. I
                        always like the squeak of a gull; it reminds me of a rusty car wheel, and,
                        somehow, it accords with a lone, rocky coast. Here they were, their little
                        feet coral red, their beaks jade gray, their bodies snowy white or sober
                        gray, wheeling and crying"my heart remembers how." I
                        looked at them and that old intense sensation of joy came backthe wish to
                        fly, the wish to be young, the wish to be happy, the wish to be loved.
                    But, my scene, beautiful as it was, was slipping away. One of the pretty
                        steamers I had noted lying on the water some distance away, was drawing
                        alongsideto get mails, first, they said. There were hurrying and shuffling
                        people on all the first cabin decks. Barfleur was forward looking after his
                        luggage. The captain stood on the bridge in his great gold-braided blue
                        overcoat. There were mail chutes being lowered from our giant
                        vessel's side, and bags and trunks and boxes and bales were then
                        sent scuttling down. I saw dozens of uniformed men and scores of ununiformed
                        laborers briskly handling these in the sunshine. My fellow passengers in
                        their last hurrying hour interested me, for I knew I should see them no
                        more; except one or two, perhaps.
                    While we were standing here I turned to watch an Englishman, tall, assured,
                        stalky, stary. He had been soldiering about for some time, examining this,
                        that and the other in his critical, dogmatic British way. He had leaned over
                        the side and inspected the approaching 
                        lighters, he had stared critically and unpoetically at the gulls which were
                        here now by hundreds, he had observed the landing toilet of the ladies, the
                        material equipment of the various men, and was quite evidently satisfied
                        that he himself was perfect, complete. He was aloof, chilly, decidedly
                        forbidding and judicial.
                    Finally a cabin steward came hurrying out to him.
                    "Did you mean to leave the things you left in your room
                        unpacked?" he asked. The Englishman started, stiffened, stared. I
                        never saw a self-sufficient man so completely shaken out of his poise.
                    "Things in my room unpacked?" he echoed. "What
                        room are you talking about? My word!"
                    "There are three drawers full of things in there, sir, unpacked, and
                        they 're waiting for your luggage now, sir!"
                    "My word!" he repeated, grieved, angered, perplexed.
                        "My word! I'm sure I packed everything. Three drawers
                        full! My word!" He bustled off stiffly. The attendant hastened
                        cheerfully after. It almost gave me a chill as I thought of his problem. And
                        they hurry so at Fishguard. He was well paid out, as the English say, for
                        being so stalky and superior.
                    Then the mail and trunks being off, and that boat having veered away, another
                        and somewhat smaller one came alongside and we first, and then the second
                        class passengers, went aboard, and I watched the great ship growing less and
                        less as we pulled away from it. It was immense from alongside, a vast
                        skyscraper of a ship. At a hundred feet, it seemed not so large, but more
                        graceful; at a thousand feet, all its exquisite lines were perfectits bulk
                        not so great, but the pathos of its departing beauty wonderful; at two
                        thousand feet, it was still beautiful against the granite ring of the
                        harbor; but, alas, it was moving. The captain 
                        was an almost indistinguishable spot upon his bridge. The stacksin their way
                        gorgeoustook on beautiful proportions. I thought, as we veered in near the
                        pier and the ship turned within her length or thereabouts and steamed out, I
                        had never seen a more beautiful sight. Her convoy of gulls was still about
                        her. Her smoke-stacks flung back their graceful streamers. The propeller
                        left a white trail of foam. I asked some one: "When does she get to
                        Liverpool?"
                    "At two in the morning."
                    "And when do the balance of the passengers land?" (We had
                        virtually emptied the first cabin.)
                    "At seven, I fancy."
                    Just then the lighter bumped against the dock. I walked under a long, low
                        train-shed covering four tracks, and then I saw my first English passenger
                        traina semi-octagonal-looking affair(the ends of the cars certainly looked
                        as though they had started out to be octagonal) and there were little doors
                        on the sides labeled "First," "First,"
                        "First." On the side, at the top of the car, was a longer
                        sign: "Cunard Ocean SpecialLondonFishguard."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IV
                    SERVANTS AND POLITENESS
                    
                        RIGHT here I propose to interpolate my second dissertation
                        on the servant question and I can safely promise, I am sure, that it will
                        not be the last. One night, not long before, in dining with a certain Baron
                        N. and Barfleur at the Ritz in New York this matter of the American servant
                        came up in a conversational way. Baron N. was a young exquisite of Berlin
                        and other European capitals. He was one of Barfleur's idle fancies.
                        Because we were talking about America in general I asked them both what, to
                        them, was the most offensive or objectionable thing about America. One said,
                        expectorating; the other said, the impoliteness of servants. On the ship
                        going over, at Fishguard, in the train from Fishguard to London, at London
                        and later in Barfleur's country house I saw what the difference
                        was. Of course I had heard these differences discussed before ad lib. for years, but hearing is not believing. Seeing and
                        experiencing is.
                    On shipboard I noticed for the first time in my life that there was an
                        aloofness about the service rendered by the servants which was entirely
                        different from that which we know in America. They did not look at one so
                        brutally and critically as does the American menial; their eyes did not seem
                        to say, "I am your equal or better," and their motions did
                        not indicate that they were doing anything unwillingly. In Americaand I am a
                        good AmericanI have always had the feeling that the American hotel or house
                        servant or store clerkparticularly  store
                        clerkmale or femalewas doing me a great favor if he did anything at all for
                        me. As for train-men and passenger-boat assistants, I have never been able
                        to look upon them as servants at all. Mostly they have looked on me as an
                        interloper, and as some one who should be put off the train, instead of
                        assisted in going anywhere. American conductors are Czars; American brakemen
                        and train hands are Grand Dukes, at least; a porter is little less than a
                        highwayman; and a hotel clerkGod forbid that we should mention him in the
                        same breath with any of the foregoing!
                    However, as I was going on to say, when I went aboard the English ship in
                        question I felt this burden of serfdom to the American servant lifted. These
                        people, strange to relate, did not seem anxious to fight with me. They were
                        actually civil. They did not stare me out of countenance; they did not order
                        me gruffly about. And, really, I am not a princely soul looking for
                        obsequious service. I am, I fancy, a very humble-minded person when
                        traveling or living, anxious to go briskly forward, not to be disturbed too
                        much and allowed to live in quiet and seclusion.
                    The American servant is not built for that. One must have great social or
                        physical force to command him. At times he needs literally to be cowed by
                        threats of physical violence. You are paying him? Of course you are. You
                        help do that when you pay your hotel bill or buy your ticket, or make a
                        purchase, but he does not know that. The officials of the companies for whom
                        he works do not appear to know. If they did, I don't know that they
                        would be able to do anything about it. You can not make a whole people over
                        by issuing a book of rules. Americans are free men; they don't want
                        to be servants; they have despised the idea for years. I think the early
                        Americans who lived in America after the Revolution  the anti-Tory elementthought that after the war and having won
                        their nationality there was to be an end of servants. I think they
                        associated labor of this kind with slavery, and they thought when England
                        had been defeated all these other things, such as menial service, had been
                        defeated also. Alas, superiority and inferiority have not yet been done away
                        withwholly. There are the strong and the weak; the passionate and
                        passionless; the hungry and the well-fed. There are those who still think
                        that life is something which can be put into a mold and adjusted to a
                        theory, but I am not one of them. I cannot view life or human nature save as
                        an expression of contrariesin fact, I think that is what life is. I know
                        there can be no sense of heat without cold; no fullness without emptiness;
                        no force without resistance; no anything, in short, without its contrary.
                        Consequently, I cannot see how there can be great men without little ones;
                        wealth without poverty; social movement without willing social assistance.
                        No high without a low, is my idea, and I would have the low be intelligent,
                        efficient, useful, well paid, well looked after. And I would have the high
                        be sane, kindly, considerate, useful, of good report and good-will to all
                        men.
                    Years of abuse and discomfort have made me rather antagonistic to servants,
                        but I felt no reasonable grounds for antagonism here. They were behaving
                        properly. They were n't staring at me. I did n't catch
                        them making audible remarks behind my back. They were not descanting
                        unfavorably upon any of my fellow passengers. Things were actually going
                        smoothly and nicely and they seemed rather courteous about it all.
                    Yes, and it was so in the dining-saloon, in the bath, on deck, everywhere,
                        with "yes, sirs," and "thank you, sirs,"
                        and two fingers raised to cap visors occasionally for good measure. Were
                        they acting? Was this a  fiercely suppressed
                        class I was looking upon here? I could scarcely believe it. They looked too
                        comfortable. I saw them associating with each other a great deal. I heard
                        scraps of their conversation. It was all peaceful and genial and individual
                        enough. They were, apparently, leading unrestricted private lives. However,
                        I reserved judgment until I should get to England, but at Fishguard it was
                        quite the same and more also. These railway guards and porters and
                        conductors were not our railway conductors, brakemen and porters, by a long
                        shot. They were different in their attitude, texture and general outlook on
                        life. Physically I should say that American railway employees are superior
                        to the European brand. They are, on the whole, better fed, or at least
                        better set up. They seem bigger to me, as I recall them; harder, stronger.
                        The English railway employee seems smaller and more refined physicallyless
                        vigorous.
                    But as to manners: Heaven save the mark! These people are civil. They are
                        nice. They are willing. "Have you a porter, sir? Yes, sir! Thank
                        you, sir! This way, sir! No trouble about that, sir! In a moment, sir!
                        Certainly, sir! Very well, sir!" I heard these things on all sides
                        and they were like balm to a fevered brain. Life did n't seem so
                        strenuous with these people about. They were actually trying to help me
                        along. I was led; I was shown; I was explained to. I got under way without
                        the least distress and I began actually to feel as though I was being
                        coddled. Why, I thought, these people are going to spoil me. I'm
                        going to like them. And I had rather decided that I would n't like
                        the English. Why, I don't know; for I never read a great English
                        novel that I did n't more or less like all of the characters in it.
                        Hardy's lovely country people have warmed the cockles of my heart;
                        George Moore's English characters have appealed to me. And here was
                             Barfleur. But the way the train employees
                        bundled me into my seat and got my bags in after or before me, and said,
                        "We shall be starting now in a few minutes, sir," and
                        called quietly and pleadinglynot yelling, mind you "Take your
                        seats, please," delighted me.
                    I did n't like the looks of the cars. I can prove in a moment by any
                        traveler that our trains are infinitely more luxurious. I can see where
                        there is n't heat enough, and where one lavatory for men and women
                        on any train, let alone a first-class one, is an abomination, and so on and
                        so forth; but still, and notwithstanding, I say the English railway service
                        is better. Why? Because it's more human; it 's more
                        considerate. You are n't driven and urged to step lively and called
                        at in loud, harsh voices and made to feel that you are being tolerated
                        aboard something that was never made for you at all, but for the employees
                        of the Company. In England the trains are run for the people, not the people
                        for the trains. And now that I have that one distinct difference between
                        England and America properly emphasized I feel much better.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER V
                    RIDE TO LONDON
                    
                        AT last the train was started and we were off. The track
                        was not so wide, if I am not mistaken, as ours, and the little freight or
                        goods cars were positively ridiculousmere wheelbarrows, by comparison with
                        the American type. As for the passenger cars, when I came to examine them,
                        they reminded me of some of our fine street cars that run from, say
                        Schenectady to Gloversville, or from Muncie to Marion, Indiana. They were
                        the first-class cars, toothe English Pullmans! The train started out briskly
                        and you could feel that it did not have the powerful weight to it which the
                        American train has. An American Pullman creaks audibly, just as a great ship
                        does when it begins to move. An American engine begins to pull slowly
                        because it has something to pulllike a team with a heavy load. I did
                        n't feel that I was in a train half so much as I did that I was in
                        a string of baby carriages.
                    Miss X. and her lover, Miss E. and her maid, Barfleur and I comfortably
                        filled one little compartment; and now we were actually moving, and I began
                        to look out at once to see what English scenery was really like. It was not
                        at all strange to me, for in books and pictures I had seen it all my life.
                        But here were the actual hills and valleys, the actual thatched cottages,
                        and the actual castles or moors or lovely country vistas, and I was seeing
                        them!
                    As I think of it now I can never be quite sufficiently grateful to Barfleur
                        for a certain affectionate, thoughtful, sympathetic regard for my every
                        possible mood on this occasion. This was my first trip to this England of
                        which,  of course, he was intensely proud. He
                        was so humanly anxious that I should not miss any of its charms or, if need
                        be, defects. He wanted me to be able to judge it fairly and humanly and to
                        see the eventual result sieved through my temperament. The soul of
                        attention; the soul of courtesy; patient, long-suffering, humane, gentle.
                        How I have tried the patience of that man at times! An iron mood he has on
                        occasion; a stoic one, always. Gentle, even, smiling, living a rule and a
                        standard. Every thought of him produces a grateful smile. Yet he has his
                        defectsplenty of them. Here he was at my elbow, all the way to London,
                        momentarily suggesting that I should not miss the point, whatever the point
                        might be, at the moment. He was helpful, really interested, and above all
                        and at all times, warmly human.
                    We had been just two hours getting from the boat to the train. It was
                        three-thirty when the train began to move, and from the lovely misty
                        sunshine of the morning the sky had become overcast with low, grayalmost
                        blackrain clouds. I looked at the hills and valleys. They told me we were in
                        Wales. And, curiously, as we sped along first came Wordsworth into my mind,
                        and then Thomas Hardy. I thought of Wordsworth first because these smooth,
                        kempt hills, wet with the rain and static with deep gray shadows, suggested
                        him. England owes so much to William Wordsworth, I think. So far as I can
                        see, he epitomized in his verses this sweet, simple hominess that tugs at
                        the heart-strings like some old call that one has heard before. My father
                        was a German, my mother of Pennsylvania Dutch extraction, and yet there is a
                        pull here in this Shakespearian-Wordsworthian-Hardyesque world which is
                        precisely like the call of a tender mother to a child. I can't
                        resist it. I love it; and I am not English but radically American.
                    
                    I understand that Hardy is not so well thought of in England as he might
                        bethat, somehow, some large conservative class thinks that his books are
                        immoral or destructive. I should say the English would better make much of
                        Thomas Hardy while he is alive. He is one of their great traditions. His
                        works are beautiful. The spirit of all the things he has done or attempted
                        is lovely. He is a master mind, simple, noble, dignified, serene. He is as
                        fine as any of the English cathedrals. St. Paul's or Canterbury has
                        no more significance to me than Thomas Hardy. I saw St. Paul's. I
                        wish I could see the spirit of Thomas Hardy indicated in some such definite
                        way. And yet I do not. Monuments do not indicate great men. But the fields
                        and valleys of a country suggest them.
                    At twenty or thirty miles from Fishguard we came to some open wateran arm of
                        the sea, I understoodthe Bay of Bristol, where boats were, and tall,
                        rain-gutted hills that looked like tumbled-down castles. Then came more open
                        countrymoorland, I supposewith some sheep, once a flock of black ones; and
                        then the lovely alternating hues of this rain-washed world. The water under
                        these dark clouds took on a peculiar luster. It looked at times like
                        burnished steelat times like muddy lead. I felt my heart leap up as I
                        thought of our own George Inness and what he would have done with these
                        scenes and what the English Turner has done, though he preferred, as a rule,
                        another key.
                    At four-thirty one of the charming English trainmen came and asked if we
                        would have tea in the dining-car. We would. We arose and in a few moments
                        were entering one of those dainty little basket cars. The tables were
                        covered with white linen and simple, pretty china and a silver tea-service.
                        It was n't as if you were traveling at all. I felt as though I were
                        stopping at the house  of a friend; or as
                        though I were in the cozy corner of some well-known and friendly inn. Tea
                        was served. We ate toast and talked cheerfully.
                    This whole tripthe landscape, the dining-car, this cozy tea, Miss X. and her
                        lover, Miss E. and Barfleurfinally enveloped my emotional fancy like a
                        dream. I realized that I was experiencing a novel situation which would not
                        soon come again. The idea of this pretty mistress coming to England to join
                        her lover, and so frankly admitting her history and her purpose, rather took
                        my mind as an intellectual treat. You really don't often get to see
                        this sort of thing. I don't. It's Gallic in its flavor, to
                        me. Barfleur, being a man of the world, took it as a matter of coursehis
                        sole idea being, I fancy, that the refinement of personality and thought
                        involved in the situation were sufficient to permit him to tolerate it. I
                        always judge his emotion by that one gleaming eye behind the monocle. The
                        other does not take my attention so much. I knew from his attitude that
                        ethics and morals and things like that had nothing to do with his selection
                        of what he would consider interesting personal companionship. Were they
                        interesting? Could they tell him something new? Would they amuse him? Were
                        they nicesocially, in their clothing, in their manners, in the hundred
                        little material refinements which make up a fashionable lady or gentleman?
                        If so, welcome. If not, hence. And talent! Oh, yes, he had a keen eye for
                        talent. And he loves the exceptional and will obviously do anything and
                        everything within his power to foster it.
                    Having started so late, it grew nearly dark after tea and the distant
                        landscapes were not so easy to descry. We came presently, in the mist, to a
                        place called Carmarthen, I think, where were great black stacks and  flaming forges and lights burning wistfully in
                        the dark; and then to another similar place, Swansea, and finally to a
                        third, Cardiffgreat centers of manufacture, I should judge, for there were
                        flaming lights from forges (great, golden gleams from open furnaces) and
                        dark blue smoke, visible even at this hour, from tall stacks overhead, and
                        gleaming electric lights like bright, lucent diamonds.
                    I never see this sort of place but I think of Pittsburgh and Youngstown and
                        the coke ovens of western Pennsylvania along the line of the Pennsylvania
                        Railroad. I shall never forget the first time I saw Pittsburgh and
                        Youngstown and saw how coke was fired. It was on my way to New York. I had
                        never seen any mountains before and suddenly, after the low, flat plains of
                        Indiana and Ohio, with their pretty little wooden villages so suggestive of
                        the new life of the New World, we rushed into Youngstown and then the
                        mountains of western Pennsylvania (the Alleghanies). It was somewhat like
                        this night coming from Fishguard, only it was not so rainy. The hills rose
                        tall and green; the forge stacks of Pittsburgh flamed with a red gleam, mile
                        after mile, until I thought it was the most wonderful sight I had ever seen.
                        And then came the coke ovens, beyond Pittsburgh mile after mile of them,
                        glowing ruddily down in the low valleys between the tall hills, where our
                        train was following a stream-bed. It seemed a great, sad, heroic thing then,
                        to me,plain day labor. Those common, ignorant men, working before flaming
                        forges, stripped to the waist in some instances, fascinated my imagination.
                        I have always marveled at the inequalities of naturethe way it will give one
                        man a low brow and a narrow mind, a narrow round of thought, and make a
                        slave or horse of him, and another a light, nimble mind, a quick wit and  air and make a gentleman of him. No human
                        being can solve either the question of ability or utility. Is your gentleman
                        useful? Yes and no, perhaps. Is your laborer useful? Yes and no, perhaps. I
                        should say obviously yes. But see the differences in the reward of
                        laborphysical labor. One eats his hard-earned crust in the sweat of his
                        face; the other picks at his surfeit of courses and wonders why this or that
                        does n't taste better. I did not make my mind. I did not make my
                        art. I cannot choose my taste except by predestined instinct, and yet here I
                        am sitting in a comfortable English home, as I write, commiserating the poor
                        working man. I indict nature here and now, as I always do and always shall
                        do, as being aimless, pointless, unfair, unjust. I see in the whole thing no
                        scheme but an accidental oneno justice save accidental justice. Now and
                        then, in a way, some justice is done, but it is accidental; no individual
                        man seems to will it He can't. He does n't know how. He
                        can't think how. And there 's an end of it.
                    But these queer, weird, hard, sad, drab manufacturing citieswhat great writer
                        has yet sung the song of them? Truly I do not recall one at present clearly.
                        Dickens gives some suggestion of what he considered the misery of the poor;
                        and in "Les Miserables" there is a touch of grim poverty
                        and want here and there. But this is something still different. This is
                        creative toil on a vast scale, and it is a lean, hungry, savage, animal to
                        contemplate. I know it is because I have studied personally Fall River,
                        Patterson and Pittsburgh, and I know what I'm talking about. Life
                        runs at a gaunt level in those places. It's a rough, hurtling world
                        of fact. I suppose it is not any different in England, I looked at the
                        manufacturing towns as we flashed by in the night and got the same feeling
                        of sad commiseration  and unrest. The homes
                        looked poor and they had a deadly sameness; the streets were narrow and
                        poorly lighted. I was eager to walk over one of these towns foot by foot. I
                        have the feeling that the poor and the ignorant and the savage are somehow
                        great artistically. I have always had it. Millet saw it when he painted
                        "The Man with the Hoe." These drab towns are grimly
                        wonderful to me. They sing a great diapason of misery. I feel hunger and
                        misery there; I feel lust and murder and life, sick of itself, stewing in
                        its own juice; I feel women struck in the face by brutal men; and sodden
                        lives too low and weak to be roused by any storm of woe. I fancy there are
                        hungry babies and dying mothers and indifferent bosses and noble directors
                        somewhere, not caring, not knowing, not being able to do anything about it,
                        perhaps, if they did. I could weep just at the sight of a large, drab,
                        hungry manufacturing town. I feel sorry for ignorant humanity. I wish I knew
                        how to raise the low foreheads; to put the clear light of intellect into
                        sad, sodden eyes. I wish there were n't any blows, any hunger, any
                        tears. I wish people did n't have to long bitterly for just the
                        little thin, bare necessities of this world. But I know, also, that life
                        would n't be as vastly dramatic and marvelous without them. Perhaps
                        I'm wrong. I've seen some real longing in my time, though.
                        I've longed myself and I've seen others die longing.
                    Between Carmarthen and Cardiff and some other places where this drab, hungry
                        world seemed to stick its face into the window, I listened to much
                        conversation about the joyous side of living in Paris, Monte Carlo, Ostend
                        and elsewhere. I remember once I turned from the contemplation of a dark,
                        sad, shabby world scuttling by in the night and rain to hear Miss E. telling
                        of some Parisian music-hall favoriteI'll call her Carmen  rivaling another Parisian music-hall favorite
                        by the name of Diane, let us say, at Monte Carlo. Of course it is understood
                        that they were women of loose virtue. Of course it is understood that they
                        had fine, white, fascinating bodies and lovely faces and that they were
                        physically ideal. Of course it is understood that they were marvelous
                        mistresses and that money was flowing freely from some source or
                        otherperhaps from factory worlds like theseto let them work their idle,
                        sweet wills. Anyhow they were gambling, racing, disporting themselves at
                        Monte Carlo and all at once they decided to rival each other in dress. Or
                        perhaps it was that they did n't decide to, but just began to,
                        which is much more natural and human.
                    As I caught it, with my nose pressed to the carriage window and the sight of
                        rain and mist in my eyes, Carmen would come down one night in splendid white
                        silk, perhaps, her bare arms and perfect neck and hair flashing priceless
                        jewels; and then the fair Diane would arrive a little later with her body
                        equally beautifully arrayed in some gorgeous material, her white arms and
                        neck and hair equally resplendent. Then the next night the gowns would be of
                        still more marvelous material and artistry, and more jewelsevery night
                        lovelier gowns and more costly jewels, until one of these women took all her
                        jewels, to the extent of millions of francs, I presume, and, arraying her
                        maid gorgeously, put all the jewels on her and sent her into the casino or
                        the ballroom or the dining-roomwherever it wasand she herself followed,
                        inlet us hopeplain, jewelless black silk, with her lovely flesh showing
                        voluptuously against it. And the other lady was there, oh, much to her
                        chagrin and despair now, of course, decked with all her own splendid jewels
                        to the extent of an  equally large number of
                        millions of francs, and so the rivalry was ended.
                    It was a very pretty story of pride and vanity and I liked it. But just at
                        this interesting moment, one of those great blast furnaces, which I have
                        been telling you about and which seemed to stretch for miles beside the
                        track, flashed past in the night, its open red furnace doors looking like
                        rubies, and the frosted windows of its lighted shops looking like opals, and
                        the fluttering street lamps and glittering arc lights looking like pearls
                        and diamonds; and I said: behold! these are the only jewels of the poor and
                        from these come the others. And to a certain extent, in the last analysis
                        and barring that unearned gift of brain which some have without asking and
                        others have not at all, so they do.
                    It was seven or eight when we reached Paddington. For one moment, when I
                        stepped out of the car, the thought came to me with a tingle of vanityI have
                        come by land and sea, three thousand miles to London! Then it was gone
                        again. It was strangethis scene. I recognized at once the various London
                        types caricatured in Punch, and Pick Me
                        Up, and The Sketch, and elsewhere. I saw a world of
                        cabs and 'busses, of porters, gentlemen, policemen, and citizens
                        generally. I saw charactersstrange onesthat brought back Dickens and Du
                        Maurier and W. W. Jacobs. The words "Booking Office" and
                        the typical London policeman took my eye. I strolled about, watching the
                        crowd till it was time for us to board our train for the country; and
                        eagerly I nosed about, trying to sense London from this vague, noisy touch
                        of it. I can't indicate how the peculiar-looking trains made me
                        feel. Humanity is so very different in so many little unessential thingsso
                        utterly the same in all the large ones. I 
                        could see that it might be just as well or better to call a ticket office a
                        booking office; or to have three classes of carriages instead of two, as
                        with us; or to have carriages instead of cars; or trams instead of street
                        railways; or lifts instead of elevators. What difference does it make? Life
                        is the same old thing. Nevertheless there was a tremendous difference
                        between the London and the New York atmospherethat I could see and feel.
                    "A few days at my place in the country will be just the thing for
                        you," Barfleur was saying. "I sent a wireless to Dora to
                        have a fire in the hall and in your room. You might as well see a bit of
                        rural England first."
                    He gleamed on me with his monocled eye in a very encouraging manner.
                    We waited about quite awhile for a local or suburban which would take us to
                        Bridgely Level, and having ensconced ourselves first classas fitting my
                        arrivalBarfleur fell promptly to sleep and I mused with my window open,
                        enjoying the country and the cool night air.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VI
                    THE BARFLEUR FAMILY
                    
                        I AM writing these notes on Tuesday, November
                        twenty-eighth, very close to a grate fire in a pretty little sitting-room in
                        an English country house about twenty-five miles from London, and I am very
                        chilly.
                    We reached this place by some winding road, inscrutable in the night, and I
                        wondered keenly what sort of an atmosphere it would have. The English
                        suburban or country home of the better class has always been a concrete
                        thought to merather charming on the whole. A carriage brought us, with all
                        the bags and trunks carefully looked after (in England you always keep your
                        luggage with you), and we were met in the hall by the maid who took our
                        coats and hats and brought us something to drink. There was a small fire
                        glowing in the fireplace in the entrance hall, but it was so smallcheerful
                        though it wasthat I wondered why Barfleur had taken all the trouble to send
                        a wireless from the sea to have it there. It seems it is a custom, in so far
                        as his house is concerned, not to have it. But having heard something of
                        English fires and English ideas of warmth, I was not greatly surprised.
                    "I am going to be cold," I said to myself, at once.
                        "I know it. The atmosphere is going to be cold and raw and I am
                        going to suffer greatly. It will be the devil and all to write."
                    I fancy this is a very fair and pretty example of the average country home
                        near London, and it certainly lacks none of the appointments which might be
                        considered  worthy of a comfortable home; but
                        it is as cold as a sepulcher, and I can't understand the evoluted
                        system of procedure which has brought about any such uncomfortable state and
                        maintains it as satisfactory. These Britons are actually warm when the
                        temperature in the room is somewhere between forty-five and fifty and they
                        go about opening doors and windows with the idea that the rooms need
                        additional airing. They build you small, weak coal fires in large, handsome
                        fireplaces, and then if the four or five coals huddled together are managing
                        to keep themselves warm by glowing, they tell you that everything is all
                        right (or stroll about, at least, looking as though it were). Doors are left
                        open; the casement windows flung out, everything done to give the place air
                        and draughtiness.
                    "Now," said my host, with his usual directness of speech,
                        as I stood with my back to the hall fireplace, "I think it is best
                        that you should go to bed at once and get a good night's rest. In
                        the morning you shall have your breakfast at whatever hour you say. Your
                        bath will be brought you a half or three-quarters of an hour before you
                        appear at table, so that you will have ample time to shave and dress. I
                        shall be here until eleven-fifteen to see how you are getting along, after
                        which I shall go to the city. You shall have a table here, or wherever you
                        like, and the maid will serve your luncheon punctually at two
                        o'clock. At half past four your tea will be brought to you, in case
                        you are here. In the evening we dine at seven-thirty. I shall be down on the
                        five fifty-two train."
                    So he proceeded definitely to lay out my life for me and I had to smile.
                        "That vast established order which is England," I thought
                        again. He accompanied me to my chamber door, or rather to the foot of the
                        stairs. There he wished me pleasant dreams. "And
                        remember,"  he cautioned me with the
                        emphasis of one who has forgotten something of great consequence,
                        "this is most important. Whatever you do, don't forget to
                        put out your boots for the maid to take and have blacked. Otherwise you will
                        disrupt the whole social procedure of England."
                    It is curiousthis feeling of being quite alone for the first time in a
                        strange land. I began to unpack my bags, solemnly thinking of New York.
                        Presently I went to the window and looked out. One or two small lights
                        burned afar off. I undressed and got into bed, feeling anything but sleepy.
                        I lay and watched the fire flickering on the hearth. So this was really
                        England, and here I was at lasta fact absolutely of no significance to any
                        one else in the world, but very important to me. An old, old dream come
                        true! And it had passed so oddlythe tripso almost unconsciously, as it were.
                        We make a great fuss, I thought, about the past and the future, but the
                        actual moment is so often without meaning. Finally, after hearing a rooster
                        crow and thinking of Hamlet's fatherhis ghostand the chill that
                        invests the thought of cock-crow in that tragedy, I slept.
                    Morning came and with it a knocking on the door. I called, "Come
                        in." In came the maid, neat, cleanly, rosy-cheeked, bringing a
                        large tin basinvery much wider than an American tub but not so deepa large
                        water can, full of hot water, towels and the like. She put the tub and water
                        can down, drew a towel rack from the wall nearby, spread out the towels and
                        left.
                    I did not hear her take the boots, but when I went to the door they were
                        gone. In the afternoon they were back again, nice and bright. I speculated
                        on all this as an interesting demonstration of English life. Barfleur is not
                        so amazingly well-to-do, but he has all these things.
                    
                    It struck me as pleasing, soothing, orderlyquite the same thing I had been
                        seeing on the train and the ship. It was all a part of that interesting
                        national system which I had been hearing so much about.
                    At breakfast it was quite the samea most orderly meal. Barfleur was there to
                        breakfast with me and see that I was started right. His face was smiling.
                        How did I like it? Was I comfortable? Had I slept well? Had I slept very
                        well? It was bad weather, but I would rather have to expect that at this
                        season of the year.
                    I can see his smiling facea little cynical and disillusionedget some faint
                        revival of his own native interest in England in my surprise, curiosity and
                        interest. The room was cold, but he did not seem to think so. No, no, no, it
                        was very comfortable. I was simply not acclimated yet. I would get used to
                        it.
                    This house was charming, I thought, and here at breakfast I was introduced to
                        the children. Berenice Mary Barfleur, the only girl and the eldest child,
                        looked to me at first a little pale and thinquite peaked, in factbut
                        afterwards I found her not to be somerely a temperamental objection on my
                        part to a type which afterwards seemed to me very attractive. She was a
                        decidedly wise, high-spoken, intellectual and cynical little maid. Although
                        only eleven years of age she conversed with the air, the manner and the
                        words of a woman of twenty.
                    "Oh, yes. Amyreeka! Is that a nice place? Do you like it?"
                    I cannot in the least way convey the touch of lofty, well-bred feeling it
                        hadquite the air and sound of a woman of twenty-five or thirty schooled in
                        all the niceties of polite speech. "What a child," I
                        thought. "She talks as though she were affected, but I can see that
                        she is not." Quite different she seemed from what any  American child could beless vigorous, more
                        intellectual, more spiritual; perhaps not so forceful but probably
                        infinitely more subtle. She looked delicate, remote, Burne-Jonesyfar removed
                        from the more common-place school of force we knowand I think I like our
                        type better. I smiled at her and she seemed friendly enough, but there was
                        none of that running forward and greeting people which is an average
                        middle-class American habit. She was too well bred. I learned afterward,
                        from a remark dropped at table by her concerning American children, that it
                        was considered bad form. "American children are the kind that run
                        around hotel foyers with big bows on their hair and speak to
                        people," was the substance of it. I saw at once how bad American
                        children were.
                    Well, then came the eldest boy, Percy Franklin Barfleur, who reminded me, at
                        first glance, of that American caricature typedear to the newspaper
                        cartoonistof Little Johnnie Bostonbeans. Here he
                        was"glawses," inquiring eyes, a bulging forehead, a
                        learned air; and all at ten years, and somewhat undersized for his agea
                        clever child; sincere, apparently; rather earnest; eager to know, full of
                        the light of youthful understanding. Like his sister, his manners were quite
                        perfect but unstudied. He smiled and replied, "Quite well, thank
                        you," to my amused inquiries after him. I could see he was bright
                        and thoughtful, but the unconscious (though, to me, affected) quality of the
                        English voice amused me here again. Then came Charles Gerard Barfleur, and
                        James Herbert Barfleur, who impressed me in quite the same way as the
                        others. They were nice, orderly children but English, oh, so English!
                    It was while walking in the garden after breakfast that I encountered James
                        Herbert Barfleur, the youngest; but, in the confusion of meeting people
                        generally, I did not  recognize him. He was
                        outside the coach house, where are the rooms of the gardener, and where my
                        room is.
                    "And which little Barfleur might this be?" I asked
                        genially, in that patronizing way we have with children.
                    "James Herbert Barfleur," he replied, with a gravity of
                        pronunciation which quite took my breath away. We are not used to this
                        formal dignity of approach in children of so very few years in America. This
                        lad was only five years of age and he was talking to me in the educated
                        voice of one of fifteen or sixteen. I stared, of course.
                    "You don't tell me," I replied. "And what
                        is your sister's name, again?"
                    "Berenice Mary Barfleur," he replied.
                    "Dear, dear, dear," I sighed. "Now what do you
                        know about that?"
                    Of course such a wild piece of American slang as that had no significance to
                        him whatsoever. It fell on his ears without meaning.
                    "I don't know," he replied, interested in some
                        fixture he was fastening to a toy bath tub.
                    "Is n't that a fine little bath tub you have," I
                        ventured, eager to continue the conversation because of its novelty.
                    "It's a nice little bawth," he went on,
                        "but I would n't call it a tub."
                    I really did not know how to reply to this last, it took me so by surprise;a
                        child of five, in little breeches scarcely larger than my two hands, making
                        this fine distinction. "We surely live and learn," I
                        thought, and went on my way smiling.
                    This house interested me from so many other points of view, being
                        particularly English and new, that I was never weary of investigating it. I
                        had a conversation with the gardener one morning concerning his duties and
                        found that he had an exact schedule of procedure  which covered every day in the year. First, I believe, he got hold of the
                        boots, delivered to him by the maid, and did those; and then he brought up
                        his coal and wood and built the fires; and then he had some steps and paths
                        to look after; and then some errands to do, I forget what. There was the
                        riding pony to curry and saddle, the stable to cleanoh, quite a long list of
                        things which he did over and over, day after day. He talked with such an air
                        of responsibility, as so many English servants do, that I was led to reflect
                        upon the reliability of English servants in general; and he dropped his
                        h's where they occurred, of course, and added them where they
                        should n't have been. He told me how much he received, how much he
                        had received, how he managed to live on it, how shiftless and irresponsible
                        some people were.
                    "They don't know 'ow to get along, sir,"
                        he informed me with the same solemn air of responsibility. "They
                        just does n't know 'ow to manige, sir, I tyke it; some
                        people does n't, sir. They gets sixteen or highteen
                        shillin's, the same as me, sir, but hawfter they goes and buys five
                        or six g'uns (I thought he said gunshe actually said gallons)
                        o' beer in the week, there hain't much left fer other
                        things, is there, sir? Now that's no wy, sir, is it, sir? I hawsk
                        you."
                    I had to smile at the rural accent. He was so simple mindedso innocent,
                        apparently. Every one called him Wilkinsnot Mr. Wilkins (as his colleagues
                        might in America) or John or Jack or some sobriquet, but just Wilkins. He
                        was Wilkins to every onethe master, the maid, the children. The maid was
                        Dora to every one, and the nurse, Nana. It was all interesting to me because
                        it was so utterly new.
                    And then this landscape round about; the feel of the country was refreshing.
                        I knew absolutely nothing about it, and yet I could see and feel that we
                        were in a  region of comfortable suburban life.
                        I could hear the popping of guns all day long, hereand thereaboutsthis being
                        the open season for shooting, not hunting, as my host informed me; there was
                        no such thing as hunting hereabouts. I could see men strolling here and
                        there together, guns under their arms, plaid caps on their heads, in knee
                        breeches, and leather leggings. I could see, from my writing desk in the
                        drawing-room window, clever-riding English girls bounding by on light-moving
                        horses, and in my limited walks I saw plenty of comfortable-looking country
                        placessuburban homes. I was told by a friend of mine that this was rather a
                        pleasant country section, but that I might see considerable of the same
                        thing anywhere about London at this distance.
                    "Dora" the maid interested me very much. She was so quiet,
                        so silent and so pretty. The door would open, any time during the day when I
                        was writing, and in she would come to look after the fire, to open or close
                        the windows, to draw the curtains, light the candles and serve the tea, or
                        to call me to luncheon or dinner. Usually I ate my luncheon and drank my
                        four-o'clock tea alone. I ate my evening meal all alone once. It
                        made no differencemy eating alone. The service was quite the same; the same
                        candles were lightedseveral brackets on different parts of the table; the
                        fire built in the diningroom. There were four or five courses and wine. Dora
                        stood behind me watching me eat in silence, and I confess I felt very queer.
                        It was all so solemn, so stately. I felt like some old gray baron or
                        bachelor shut away from the world and given to contemplating the follies of
                        his youth. When through with nuts and winethe final glass of portit was the
                        custom of the house to retire to the drawing-room and drink the small cup of
                        black coffee which was served there. And on this night, al-though I was
                        quite alone, it was the same. The coffee  was
                        served just as promptly and dignifiedly as though there were eight or ten
                        present. It interested me greatly, all of it, and pleased me more than I can
                        say.
                    Personally I shall always be glad that I saw some rural aspects of England
                        first, for they are the most characterful and, to me, significant. London is
                        an amazing city and thoroughly English, but the rural districts are more
                        suggestive. In what respects do the people of one country differ from those
                        of another, since they eat, sleep, rise, dress, go to work, return, love,
                        hate, and aspire alike? In littledynamically, mechanically speaking. But
                        temperamentally, emotionally, spiritually and even materially they differ in
                        almost every way. England is a mood, I take it, a combination of dull colors
                        and atmosphere. It expresses heaven only knows what feeling for order,
                        stability, uniformity, homeiness, simplicity. It is highly individualmore so
                        almost than Italy, France or Germany. It is vitaland yet vital in an
                        intellectual way only. You would say off-hand, sensing the feel of the air,
                        that England is all mind with convictions, prejudices, notions, poetic
                        longings terribly emphasized. The most egotistic nation in the world
                        because, perhaps, the most forcefully intellectual.
                    How different is the very atmosphere of it from America. The great open
                        common about this house smacked of English individuality, leisure, order,
                        stratificationanything you will. The atmosphere was mistily damp, the sun at
                        best a golden haze. All the bare trees were covered with a thin coating of
                        almost spring-green moss. The ground was springy, dewy. Rooks were in the
                        sky, the trees. Little red houses in the valleys, with combination flues
                        done in quaint individual chimney pots send upward soft spirals of blue
                        smoke. Laborers, their earth-colored trousers strapped just below the knees
                        by a small leather strap, appeared ever and anon; housemaids,  spick and span, with black dresses, white
                        aprons, white laces in their hair, becoming streamers of linen made into
                        large trig bows at their backs, appeared at some door or some window of
                        almost every home. The sun glints into such orderly, well-dressed windows;
                        the fields suspire such dewy fragrances. You can encounter hills of sheep,
                        creaking wains, open common land of gorse and wild berries. My little
                        master, smartly clad; dashes by on a pony; my young mistress looks
                        becomingly gay and superior on a Shetland or a cob. A four-year-old has a
                        long-eared white donkey to ride. That is England.
                    How shall it be saidhow described? It is so delicate, so remote, so refined,
                        so smooth, a pleasant land of great verse and great thought.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VII
                    A GLIMPSE OF LONDON
                    
                        AFTER a few days I went to London for the first timeI do
                        not count the night of my arrival, for I saw nothing but the railway
                        terminusand, I confess, I was not impressed as much as I might have been. I
                        could not help thinking on this first morning, as we passed from Paddington,
                        via Hyde Park, Marble Arch, Park Lane, Brook Street, Grosvenor Square,
                        Berkeley Square, Piccadilly and other streets to Regent Street and the
                        neighborhood of the Carlton Hotel, that it was beautiful, spacious, cleanly,
                        dignified and well ordered, but not astonishingly imposing. Fortunately it
                        was a bright and comfortable morning and the air was soft. There was a faint
                        bluish haze over the city, which I took to be smoke; and certainly it
                        smelled as though it were smoky. I had a sense of great life but not of
                        crowded life, if I manage to make myself clear by that. It seemed to me at
                        first blush as if the city might be so vast that no part was important. At
                        every turn Barfleur, who was my ever-present monitor, was explaining,
                        "Now this that we are coming to," or "This that
                        we are passing," or "This is so and so;" and so
                        we sped by interesting things, the city impressing me in a vague way but
                        meaning very little at the moment. We must have passed through a long
                        stretch of Piccadilly, for Barfleur pointed out a line of clubs, naming
                        themthe St. James's Club, the Savile Club, the Lyceum Club, and
                        then St. James's Palace.
                    I was duly impressed. I was seeing things which,  after all, I thought, did not depend so much upon their exterior beauty
                        or vast presence as upon the import of their lineage and connections. They
                        were beautiful in a low, dark way, and certainly they were tinged with an
                        atmosphere of age and respectability. After all, since life is a figment of
                        the brain, built-up notions of things are really far more impressive in many
                        cases than the things themselves. London is a fanfare of great names; it is
                        a clatter of vast reputations; it is a swirl of memories and celebrated
                        beauties and orders and distinctions. It is almost impossible any more to
                        disassociate the real from the fictitious or, better, spiritual. There is
                        something here which is not of brick and stone at all, but which is purely a
                        matter of thought. It is disembodied poetry; noble ideas; delicious memories
                        of great things; and these, after all, are better than brick and stone. The
                        city is lowuniversally not more than five stories high, often not more than
                        two, but it is beautiful. And it alternates great spaces with narrow
                        crevices in such a way as to give a splendid variety. You can have at once a
                        sense of being very crowded and of being very free. I can understand now
                        Browning's desire to include "poor old
                        Camberwell" with Italy in the confines of romance.
                    The thing that struck me most in so brief a surveywe were surely not more
                        than twenty minutes in reaching our destinationwas that the buildings were
                        largely a golden yellow in color, quite as if they had been white and time
                        had stained them. Many other buildings looked as though they had been black
                        originally and had been daubed white in spots. The truth is that it was
                        quite the other way about. They had been snow white and had been sooted by
                        the smoke until they were now nearly coal black. And only here and there had
                        the wind and rain whipped bare white  places
                        which looked like scars or the drippings of lime. At first I thought,
                        "How wretched." Later I thought, "This effect is
                        charming."
                    We are so used to the new and shiny and tall in America, particularly in our
                        larger cities, that it is very hard at first to estimate a city of equal or
                        greater rank, which is old and low and, to a certain extent, smoky. In
                        places there was more beauty, more surety, more dignity, more space than
                        most of our cities have to offer. The police had an air of dignity and
                        intelligence such as I have never seen anywhere in America. The streets were
                        beautifully swept and clean; and I saw soldiers here and there in fine
                        uniforms, standing outside palaces and walking in the public ways. That
                        alone was sufficient to differentiate London from any American city. We
                        rarely see our soldiers. They are too few. I think what I felt most of all
                        was that I could not feel anything very definite about so great a city and
                        that there was no use trying.
                    We were soon at the bank where I was to have my American order for money
                        cashed; and then, after a short walk in a narrow street, we were at the
                        office of Barfleur, where I caught my first glimpse of an English business
                        house. It was very different from an American house of the same kind, for it
                        was in an old and dark building of not more than four storiesand set down in
                        a narrow angle off the Strand and lighted by small lead-paned windows, which
                        in America would smack strongly of Revolutionary days. In fact we have
                        scarcely any such buildings left. Barfleur's private offices were
                        on the second floor, up a small dingy staircase, and the room itself was so
                        small that it surprised me by its coziness. I could not call it dingy. It
                        was quaint rather, Georgian in its atmosphere, with a small open fire
                        glowing in one corner, a great rolltop desk entirely  out of keeping with the place in another, a table, a book-case,
                        a number of photographs of celebrities framed, and the rest books. I think
                        he apologized for, or explained the difference between, this and the average
                        American business house, but I do not think explanations are in order.
                        London is London. I should be sorry if it were exactly like New York, as it
                        may yet become. The smallness and quaintness appealed to me as a fit
                        atmosphere for a healthy business.
                    I should say here that this preliminary trip to London from Bridgely Level,
                        so far as Barfleur was concerned, was intended to accomplish three things:
                        first, to give me a preliminary glimpse of London; second, to see that I was
                        measured and examined for certain articles of clothing in which I was,
                        according to Barfleur, woefully lacking; and third, to see that I attended
                        the concert of a certain Austrian singer whose singing he thought I might
                        enjoy. It was most important that I should go, because he had to go; and
                        since all that I did or could do was merely grist for my mill, I was
                        delighted to accompany him.
                    Barfleur in many respects, I wish to repeat here, is one of the most
                        delightful persons in the world. He is a sort of modern Beau Brummel with
                        literary, artistic and gormandizing leanings. He loves order and refinement,
                        of course,things in their proper ways and placesas he loves life. I suspect
                        him at times of being somewhat of a martinet in home and office matters; but
                        I am by no means sure that I am not doing him a grave injustice. A more
                        even, complaisant, well-mannered and stoical soul, who manages to get his
                        way in some fashion or other, if it takes him years to do it, I never met.
                        He surely has the patience of fate and, I think, the true charity of a great
                        heart. Now before I could be properly presented in London and elsewhere I
                        needed a long  list of things. So this morning
                        I had much shopping to attend to.
                    Since the matter of English and American money had been troubling me from the
                        moment I reached that stage on my voyage where I began to pay for things out
                        of my own pocket to the ship's servants, I began complaining of my
                        difficulties now. I could n't figure out the tips to my own
                        satisfaction and this irritated me. I remember urging Barfleur to make the
                        whole matter clear to me, which he did later. He gave me a typewritten
                        statement as to the relative value of the various pieces and what tips I
                        should pay and how and when at hotels and country houses, and this I
                        followed religiously. Here it is:
                    
                        In leaving the hotel to-morrow, give the following tips:
                        
                            Maid
                            3/-
                        
                        
                            Valet
                            3/-
                        
                        
                            Gold Braid
                            1/-
                        
                        
                            Porter (who looks after telephone)
                            1/-
                        
                        
                            Outside Man (Doorman)
                            1/-
                        
                    
                    If you reckon at a hotel to give 9d. a day to the maid and the valet, with a
                        minimum of 1/-, you will be doing handsomely. On a visit, on the supposition
                        that they have only maids, give the two maids whom you are likely to come
                        across 2/6 each, when you come away on Monday. (I am speaking of week-ends.)
                        Longer periods should be figured at 9d. a day. If, on the other hand, it is
                        a large establishmentbutler and footmanyou would have to give the butler
                        10/- and the footman 5/- for a week-end; for longer periods more.
                    I cannot imagine anything more interesting than being introduced as I was by
                        Barfleur to the social character of London. He was so intelligent and so
                        very nice about it all. "Now, first," he said,
                        "we will get your glasses mended; and then you want a traveling
                        bag; and then some ties and socks, and so on. I have an appointment  with you at your tailor's at eleven
                        o'clock, where you are to be measured for your waistcoats, and at
                        eleven-thirty at your furrier's, where you are to be measured for
                        your fur coat," and so on and so forth. "Well, come along.
                        We'll be off."
                    I have to smile when I think of it, for I, of all people, am the least given
                        to this matter of proper dressing and self-presentation, and Barfleur,
                        within reasonable limits, represents the other extreme. To him, as I have
                        said, these things are exceedingly important. The delicate manner in which
                        he indicated and urged me into getting the things which would be all right,
                        without openly insisting on them, was most pleasing. "In England,
                        you know," he would hint, "it is n't quite good
                        form to wear a heavy striped tie with a frock coatnever a straight black;
                        and we never tie them in that fashionalways a simple knot." My
                        socks had to be striped for morning wear and my collars winged, else I was
                        in very bad form indeed. I fell into the habit of asking, "What
                        now?"
                    London streets and shops as I first saw them interested me greatly. I saw at
                        once more uniforms than one would ordinarily see in New York, and more high
                        hats and, presumably,I could not tell for the overcoatscutaway coats. The
                        uniforms were of mail-men, porters, messenger-boys and soldiers; and all
                        being different from what I had been accustomed to, they interested methe
                        mail-men particularly, with a service helmet cut square off at the top; and
                        the little messenger boys, with their tambourine caps cocked joyously over
                        one ear, amused me; the policeman's helmet strap under his chin was
                        new and diverting.
                    In the stores the clerks first attracted my attention, but I may say the
                        stores and shops themselves, after New York, seemed small and old. New  York is so new; the space given to the more
                        important shops is so considerable. In London it struck me that the space
                        was not much and that the woodwork and walls were dingy. One can tell by the
                        feel of a place whether it is exceptional and profitable, and all of these
                        were that; but they were dingy. The English clerk, too, had an air of
                        civility, I had almost said servility, which was different. They looked to
                        me like individuals born to a condition and a point of view; and I think
                        they are. In America any clerk may subsequently be anything he chooses
                        (ability guaranteed), but I 'm not so sure that this is true in
                        England. Anyhow, the American clerk always looks his possibilitieshis
                        problematic future; the English clerk looks as if he were to be one
                        indefinitely.
                    We were through with this round by one o'clock, and Barfleur
                        explained that we would go to a certain very well-known hotel grill.
                    The hotel, after its fashionthe grillwas a distinct blow. I had fancied that
                        I was going to see something on the order of the luxurious new hotel in New
                        Yorkcertainly as resplendent, let us say, as our hotels of the lower first
                        class. Not so. It could be compared, and I think fairly so, only to our
                        hotels of the second or third class. There was the same air of age here that
                        there was about our old but very excellent hotels in New York. The woodwork
                        was plain, the decorations simple.
                    As for the crowd, well, Barfleur stated that it might be smart and it might
                        not. Certain publishers, rich Jewish merchants, a few actors and some
                        Americans would probably be here. This grill was affected by the foreign
                        element. The matre d'htel was French, of coursea
                        short, fat, black-whiskered man who amused me by his urbanity. The waiters
                        were, I believe, German, as they are largely in London and elsewhere in
                        England.
                    
                    One might almost imagine Germany intended invading England via its waiters.
                        The china and plate were simple and inexpensive, almost poor. A great hotel
                        can afford to be simple. We had what we would have had at any good French
                        restaurant, and the crowd was rather commonplace-looking to me. Several
                        American girls came in and they were good-looking, smart but silly. I cannot
                        say that I was impressed at all, and my subsequent experiences confirm that
                        feeling. I am inclined to think that London has n't one hotel of
                        the material splendor of the great new hotels in New York. But let that go
                        for the present.
                    While we were sipping coffee Barfleur told me of a Mrs. W., a friend of his
                        whom I was to meet. She was, he said, a lion-hunter. She tried to make her
                        somewhat interesting personality felt in so large a sea as London by taking
                        up with promising talent before it was already a commonplace. I believe it
                        was arranged over the 'phone then that I should lunch thereat Mrs.
                        W.'sthe following clay at one and be introduced to a certain Lady
                        R., who was known as a patron of the arts, and a certain Miss H., an
                        interesting English type. I was pleased with the idea of going. I had never
                        seen an English lady lion-hunter. I had never met English ladies of the
                        types of Lady R. and Miss H. There might be others present. I was also
                        informed that Mrs. W. was really not English but Danish; but she and her
                        husband, who was also Danish and a wealthy broker, had resided in London so
                        long that they were to all intents and purposes English, and in addition to
                        being rich they were in rather interesting standing socially.
                    After luncheon we went to hear a certain Miss T., an Austrian of about thirty
                        years of age, sing at some important hall in LondonBechstein Hall, I believe
                        it was,and on the way I was told something of her. It  seemed that she was very promisinga great success in Germany
                        and elsewhere as a concert-singerand that she might be coming to America at
                        some time or other. Barfleur had known her in Paris. He seemed to think I
                        would like her. We went and I heard a very lovely set of songsoh, quite
                        delightful, rendered in a warm, sympathetic, enthusiastic manner and
                        representing the most characteristic type of German love sentiment. It is a
                        peculiar sentimenttender, wistful, smacking of the sun at evening and lovely
                        water on which the moon is shining. German sentiment verges on the mushyis
                        always close to tearsbut anything more expressive of a certain phase of life
                        I do not know.
                    Miss T. sang forcefully, joyously, vigorously, and I wished sincerely to meet
                        her and tell her so; but that was not to be, then.
                    As we made our way to Paddington Barfleur, brisk and smiling, asked:
                    "Were you amused?"
                    "Quite."
                    "Well, then this afternoon was not wasted. I shall always be
                        satisfied if you are amused."
                    I smiled, and we rode sleepily back to Bridgely Level to dine and thence to
                        bed.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VIII
                    A LONDON DRAWING-ROOM
                    
                        I RECALL the next day, Sunday, with as much interest as
                        any date, for on that day at one-thirty I encountered my first London
                        drawing-room. I recall now as a part of this fortunate adventure that we had
                        been talking of a new development in French art, which Barfleur approved in
                        part and disapproved in partthe Post-Impressionists; and there was mention
                        also of the Cubistsa still more radical departure from conventional forms,
                        in which, if my impressions are correct, the artist passes from any attempt
                        at transcribing the visible scene and becomes wholly geometric, metaphysical
                        and symbolic.
                    When I reached the house of Mrs. W., which was in one of those lovely squares
                        that constitute such a striking feature of the West End, I was ushered
                        upstairs to the drawing-room, where I found my host, a rather practical,
                        shrewd-looking Dane, and his less obviously Danish wife.
                    "Oh, Mr. Derrizer," exclaimed my hostess
                        on sight, as she came forward to greet me, a decidedly engaging woman of
                        something over forty, with bronze hair and ruddy complexion. Her gown of
                        green silk; cut after the latest mode, stamped her in my mind as of a
                        romantic, artistic, eager disposition.
                    "You must come and tell us at once what you think of the picture we
                        are discussing. It is downstairs. Lady R. is there and Miss H. We are trying
                        to see if we can get a better light on it. Mr. Barfleur has told me  of you. You are from America. You must tell us
                        how you like London, after you see the Degas."
                    I think I liked this lady thoroughly at a glance and felt at home with her,
                        for I know the type. It is the mobile, artistic type, with not much
                        practical judgment in great matters, but bubbling with enthusiasm,
                        temperament, life.
                    "Certainlydelighted. I know too little of London to talk of it. I
                        shall be interested in your picture."
                    We had reached the main floor by this time.
                    "Mr. Derrizer, the Lady R."
                    A modern suggestion of the fair Jahane, tall, astonishingly lissom, doneas to
                        clothesafter the best manner of the romanticistssuch was the Lady R. A more
                        fascinating typefrom the point of view of stagecraftI never saw. And the
                        languor and lofty elevation of her gestures and eyebrows defy description.
                        She could say, "Oh, I am so weary of all this," with a
                        slight elevation of her eyebrows a hundred times more definitely and
                        forcefully than if it had been shouted in stentorian tones through a
                        megaphone.
                    She gave me the fingers of an archly poised hand.
                    "It is a pleasure!"
                    "And Miss H., Mr. Derriser."
                    "I am very pleased!"
                    A pink, slim lily of a woman, say twenty-eight or thirty, very
                        fragile-seeming, very Dresden-china-like as to color, a dream of light and
                        Tyrian blue with some white interwoven, very keen as to eye, the perfection
                        of hauteur as to manner, so well-bred that her voice seemed subtly
                        suggestive of it allthat was Miss H.
                    To say that I was interested in this company is putting it mildly. The three
                        women were so distinct, so individual, so characteristic, each in a
                        different way. The Lady R. was all peace and reposestatuesque, weary,  dark. Miss H. was like a ray of sunshine, pure
                        morning light, delicate, gay, mobile. Mrs. W. was of thicker texture, redder
                        blood, more human fire. She had a vigor past the comprehension of either, if
                        not their subtlety of intellectwhich latter is often so much better.
                    Mr. W. stood in the background, a short, stocky gentleman, a little bored by
                        the trivialities of the social world.
                    "Ah, yes. Daygah! You like Daygah, no doubt," interpolated
                        Mrs. W., recalling us. "A lovely pigture, don't you think?
                        Such color! such depth! such sympathy of treatment! Oh!"
                    Mrs. W.'s hands were up in a pretty artistic gesture of delight.
                    "Oh, yes," continued the Lady R., taking up the rapture.
                        "It is saw humansaw perfect in its harmony. The hairit is divine!
                        And the poor man! he lives alone now, in Paris, quite dreary, not seeing any
                        one. Aw, the tragedy of it! The tragedy of it!" A delicately carved
                        vanity-box she carried, of some odd workmanshipblue and white enamel, with
                        points of coral in itwas lifted in one hand as expressing her great
                        distress. I confess I was not much moved and I looked quickly at Miss H. Her
                        eyes, it seemed to me, held a subtle, apprehending twinkle.
                    "And you!" It was Mrs. W. addressing me.
                    "It is impressive, I think. I do not know as much of his work as I
                        might, I am sorry to say."
                    "Ah, he is marvelous, wonderful! I am transported by the beauty and
                        the depth of it all!" It was Mrs. W. talking and I could not help
                        rejoicing in the quality of her accent. Nothing is so pleasing to me in a
                        woman of culture and refinement as that additional tang of remoteness which
                        a foreign accent lends. If only all the lovely, cultured women of the world
                        could speak with a foreign  accent in their
                        native tongue I would like it better. It lends a touch of piquancy not
                        otherwise obtainable.
                    Our luncheon party was complete now and we would probably have gone
                        immediately into the dining-room except for another pictureby Piccasso. Let
                        me repeat here that before Barfleur called my attention to
                        Piccasso's cubical uncertainty in the London Exhibition, I had
                        never heard of him. Here in a dark corner of the room was the nude torso of
                        a consumptive girl, her ribs showing, her cheeks colorless and sunken, her
                        nose a wasted point, her eyes as hungry and sharp and lustrous as those of a
                        bird. Her hair was really no hairstrings. And her thin bony arms and
                        shoulders were pathetic, decidedly morbid in their quality. To add to the
                        morgue-like aspect of the composition, the picture was painted in a pale
                        bluish-green key.
                    I wish to state here that now, after some little lapse of time, this
                        conceptionthe thought and execution of itis growing upon me. I am not sure
                        that this work which has rather haunted me is not much more than a
                        protestthe expression and realization of a great temperament. But at the
                        moment it struck me as dreary, gruesome, decadent, and I said as much when
                        asked for my impression.
                    "Gloomy! Morbid!" Mrs. W. fired in her quite lovely accent.
                        "What has that to do with art?" "Luncheon is
                        served, Madam!"
                    The double doors of the dining-room were flung open.
                    I found myself sitting between Mrs. W. and Miss H. "I was so glad to
                        hear you say you did n't like it," Miss H. applauded, her
                        eyes sparkling, her lip moving with a delicate little smile. "You
                        know, I abhor those things. They are decadent like the
                        rest of France and England. We are going backward instead of forwardI am
                        quite sure. We have not the force we once had. 
                        It is all a race after pleasure and living and an interest in subjects of
                        that kind. I am quite sure it is n't healthy, normal art. I am sure
                        life is better and brighter than that."
                    "I am inclined to think so, at times, myself," I replied.
                    We talked further and I learned to my surprise that she suspected England to
                        be decadent as a whole, falling behind in brain, brawn and spirit and that
                        she thought America was much better.
                    "Do you know," she observed, "I really think it
                        would be a very good thing for us if we were conquered by Germany."
                    I had found here, I fancied, some one who was really thinking for herself and
                        a very charming young lady in the bargain. She was quick, apprehensive, all
                        for a heartier point of view. I am not sure now that she was not merely
                        being nice to me, and that anyhow she is not all wrong, and that the
                        heartier point of view is the courage which can front life unashamed; which
                        sees the divinity of fact and of beauty in the utmost seeming tragedy.
                        Piccasso's grim presentation of decay and degradation is beginning
                        to teach me somethingthe marvelous perfection of the spirit which is
                        concerned with neither perfection, nor decay, but life. It haunts me.
                    The charming luncheon was quickly over and I think I gathered a very clear
                        impression of the status of my host and hostess from their surroundings. Mr.
                        W. was evidently liberal in his understanding of what constitutes a
                        satisfactory home. It was not exceptional in that it differed greatly from
                        the prevailing standard of luxury. But assuredly it was all in sharp
                        contrast to Piccasso's grim representation of life and
                        Degas's revolutionary opposition to conventional standards.
                    Another man now made his appearancean artist. 
                        
                            "I like it," he pronounced. "The note is
                                somber, but it is excellent work"
                        
                        
                         I shall not forget him soon, for you do not
                        often meet people who have the courage to appear at Sunday afternoons in a
                        shabby workaday business suit, unpolished shoes, a green neckerchief in lieu
                        of collar and tie, and cuffless sleeves. I admired the quality, the
                        workmanship of the silver-set scarab which held his green linen neckerchief
                        together, but I was a little puzzled as to whether he was very poor and his
                        presence insisted upon, or comfortably progressive and indifferent to
                        conventional dress. His face and body were quite thin; his hands delicate.
                        He had an apprehensive eye that rarely met one's direct gaze.
                    "Do you think art really needs that?" Miss H. asked me. She
                        was alluding to the green linen handkerchief.
                    "I admire the courage. It is at least individual."
                    "It is after George Bernard Shaw. It has been done before,"
                        replied Miss H.
                    "Then it requires almost more courage," I replied.
                    Here Mrs. W. moved the sad excerpt from the morgue to the center of the room
                        that he of the green neckerchief might gaze at it.
                    "I like it," he pronounced. "The note is somber,
                        but it is excellent work."
                    Then he took his departure with interesting abruptness. Soon the Lady R. was
                        extending her hand in an almost pathetic farewell. Her voice was lofty, sad,
                        sustained. I wish I could describe it. There was just a suggestion of Lady
                        Macbeth in the sleep-walking scene. As she made her slow, graceful exit I
                        wanted to applaud loudly.
                    Mrs. W. turned to me as the nearest source of interest and I realized with
                        horror that she was going to fling her Piccasso at my head again and with as
                        much haste as was decent I, too, took my leave.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IX
                    CALLS
                    
                        IT was one evening shortly after I had lunched with Mrs.
                        W. that Barfleur and I dined with Miss E., the young actress who had come
                        over on the steamer with us. It was interesting to find her in her own
                        rather smart London quarters surrounded by maid and cook, and with male
                        figures of the usual ornamental sort in the immediate background. One of
                        them was a ruddy, handsome, slightly corpulent French count of manners the
                        pink of perfection. He looked for all the world like the French counts
                        introduced into American musical comedy,just the right type of collar about
                        his neck, the perfect shoe, the close-fitting, well-tailored suit, the
                        mustachios and hair barbered to the last touch. He was charming, too, in his
                        easy, gracious aloofness, saying only the few things that would be of
                        momentary interest and pressing nothing.
                    Miss E. had prepared an appetizing luncheon. She had managed to collect a
                        group of interesting peoplea Mr. T., for instance, whose bte
                            noire was clergymen and who stood prepared by collected newspaper
                        clippings and court proceedings, gathered over a period of years, to prove
                        that all ecclesiastics were scoundrels. He had, as he insisted, amazing
                        data, showing that the most perverted of all English criminals were usually
                        sons of bishops and that the higher you rose in the scale of hieratic
                        authority the worse were the men in charge. The delightful part of it all
                        was the man's profound seriousness of manner, a thin, magnetic,
                        albeit candle-waxy type of person of about sixty-five who had the force and
                        enthusiasm of a boy.
                    
                    "Ali, yes," you would hear him exclaim often during lunch,
                        "I know him well. A greater scoundrel never lived. His father is
                        bishop of Wimbledon" or, for variation "his father was
                        once rector of Christ Church, Mayfair."
                    There was a thin, hard, literary lady present, of the obviously and
                        militantly virgin type. She was at the foot of the table, next to the count,
                        but we fell into a discussion of the English woman's-suffrage
                        activity under his very nose, the while he talked lightly to Barfleur. She
                        was for more freedom for women, politically and otherwise, in order that
                        they might accomplish certain social reforms. You know the type. How like a
                        sympathetic actress, I thought, to pick a lady of this character to
                        associate with! One always finds these opposing types together.
                    The thing that interested me was to see this charming little actress keeping
                        up as smart a social form as her means would permit and still hoping after
                        years of effort and considerable success to be taken up and made much of.
                        She could not have been made to believe that society, in its last reaches,
                        is composed of dullness and heaviness of soul, which responds to no schools
                        of the unconventional or the immoral and knows neither flights of fancy nor
                        delicacy and tenderness of emotion.
                    Individuals like Miss E. think, somehow, that if they achieve a certain
                        artistic success they will be admitted everywhere. Dear aspiring little Miss
                        E.! She could hardly have been persuaded that there are walls that are never
                        scaled by art. And morality, any more than immorality or religion, has
                        nothing to do with some other walls. Force is the thing. And the ultimate
                        art force she did not possess. If she had, she would have been admitted to a
                        certain interchange in certain fields. Society 
                        is composed of slightly interchanging groups, some members of which enter
                        all, most members of which never venture beyond their immediate individual
                        circle. And only the most catholic minded and energetic would attempt or
                        care to bother with the labor of keeping in touch with more than one single
                        agreeable circle.
                    Another evening I went with Barfleur to call on two professional critics, one
                        working in the field of literature, the other in art exclusively. I mention
                        these two men and their labors because they were very interesting to me,
                        representing as they did two fields of artistic livelihood in London and
                        both making moderate incomes, not large, but sufficient to live on in a
                        simple way. They were men of mettle, as I discovered, urgent, thinking types
                        of mind, quarreling to a certain extent with life and fate, and doing their
                        best to read this very curious riddle of existence.
                    These two men lived in charming, though small quarters, not far from
                        fashionable London, on the fringe of ultra-respectability, if not of it. Mr.
                        F. was a conservative man, thirty-two or thirty-three years of age, pale,
                        slender, remote, artistic. Mr. Tyne was in character not unlike Mr. F., I
                        should have said, though he was the older manartistic, remote, ostensibly
                        cultivated, living and doing all the refined things on principle more than
                        anything else.
                    It amuses me now when I think of it, for of course neither of these gentlemen
                        cared for me in the least, beyond a mild curiosity as to what I was like,
                        but they were exceedingly pleasant. How did I like London? What did I think
                        of the English? How did London contrast with New York? What were some of the
                        things I had seen?
                    I stated as succinctly as I could, that I was puzzled in my mind as to what I
                        did think, as I am generally by this 
                        
                            Hoped for the day when the issue might be tried out physically
                        
                        
                         phantasmagoria called life, while Mr. Tyne
                        served an opening glass of port and I toasted my feet before a delicious
                        grate-fire. Already, as I have indicated in a way, I had decided that
                        England was deficient in the vitality which America now possessescertainly
                        deficient in the raw creative imagination which is producing so many new
                        things in America, but far superior in what, for want of a better phrase, I
                        must call social organization as it relates to social and commercial
                        interchange generally. Something has developed in the English social
                        consciousness a sense of responsibility. I really think that the English
                        climate has had a great deal to do with this. It is so uniformly damp and
                        cold and raw that it has produced a sober-minded race. When subsequently I
                        encountered the climates of Paris, Rome and the Riviera I realized quite
                        clearly how impossible it would be to produce the English temperament there.
                        One can see the dark, moody, passionate temperament of the Italian evolving
                        to perfection under their brilliant skies. The wine-like atmosphere of Paris
                        speaks for itself. London is what it is, and the Englishmen like-wise,
                        because of the climate in which they have been reared.
                    I said something to this effect without calling forth much protest, but when
                        I ventured that the English might possibly be falling behind in the
                        world's race and that other nationssuch as the Germans and the
                        Americansmight rapidly be displacing them, I evoked a storm of opposition.
                        The sedate Mr. F. rose to this argument. It began at the dinner-table and
                        was continued in the general living-room later. He scoffed at the suggestion
                        that the Germans could possibly conquer or displace England, and hoped for
                        the day when the issue might be tried out physically. Mr. Tyne
                        good-humoredly spoke of the long way America had to go before it could
                        achieve any social  importance even within
                        itself. It was a thrashing whirlpool of foreign elements. He had recently
                        been to the United States, and in one of the British quarterlies then on the
                        stands was a long estimate by him of America's weaknesses and
                        potentialities. He poked fun at the careless, insulting manners of the
                        people, their love of show, their love of praise. No Englishman, having
                        tasted the comforts of civilized life in England, could ever live happily in
                        America. There was no such thing as a serving class. He objected to American
                        business methods as he had encountered them, and I could see that he really
                        disliked America. To a certain extent he disliked me for being an American,
                        and resented my modest literary reputation for obtruding itself upon
                        England. I enjoyed these two men as exceedingly able combatantsmen against
                        whose wits I could sharpen my own.
                    I mention them because, in a measure, they suggested the literary and
                        artistic atmosphere of London.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER X
                    SOME MORE ABOUT LONDON
                    "LONDON sings in my ears." I remember
                        writing this somewhere about the fourth or fifth day of my stay. It was
                        delicious, the sense of novelty and wonder it gave me. I am one of those who
                        have been raised on Dickens and Thackeray and Lamb, but I must confess I
                        found little to corroborate the world of vague impressions I had formed.
                        Novels are a mere expression of temperament anyhow.
                    New York and America are all so new, so lustful of change. Here, in these
                        streets, when you walk out of a morning or an evening, you feel a pleasing
                        stability. London is not going to change under your very eyes. You are not
                        going to turn your back to find, on looking again, a whole sky line effaced.
                        The city is restful, nave, in a way tender and sweet like an old song.
                        London is more fatalistic and therefore less hopeful than New York.
                    One of the first things that impressed me, as I have said, was the grayish
                        tinge of smoke that was over everythinga faint hazeand the next that as a
                        city, street for street and square for square, it was not so strident as New
                        York or Chicagonot nearly so harsh. The traffic was less noisy, the people
                        more thoughtful and considerate, the so-called rush, which characterizes New
                        York, less foolish. There is something rowdyish and ill-mannered about the
                        street life of American cities. This was not true here. It struck me as
                        simple, sedate, thoughtful, and I could only conclude that it sprang from a
                        less stirring atmosphere of opportunity. I fancy it is harder to  get along in London. People do not change from
                        one thing to another so much. The world there is more fixed in a pathetic
                        routine, and people are more conscious of their so-called
                        "betters." In so far as I could judge on so short a
                        notice, London seemed to me to represent a mooda uniform, aware,
                        conservative state of being, neither brilliant nor gay anywhere, though
                        interesting always. About Piccadilly Circus, Trafalgar Square, Leicester
                        Square, Charing Cross, and the Strand I suppose the average Londoner would
                        insist that London is very gay; but I could not see it. Certainly it was not
                        gay as similar sections in New York are gay. It is not in the Londoner
                        himself to be so. He is solid, hard, phlegmatic, a little dreary, like a
                        certain type of rain-bird or Northern loon, content to make the best of a
                        rather dreary situation. I hope not, but I felt it to be true.
                    I do not believe that it is given any writer to wholly suggest a city. The
                        mind is like a voracious fishit would like to eat up all the experiences and
                        characteristics of a city or a nation, but this, fortunately, is not
                        possible. My own mind was busy pounding at the gates of fact, but during all
                        the while I was there I got but a little way. I remember being struck with
                        the nature of St. James's Park which was near my hotel, the great
                        column to the Duke of Marlborough, at the end of the street, the whirl of
                        life in Trafalgar Square and Piccadilly Circus which were both very near.
                        The offices I visited in various nearby streets interested me, and the storm
                        of cabs which whirled by all the corners of the region of my hotel. It was
                        described to me as the center of London; and I am quite sure it wasfor
                        clubs, theaters, hotels, smart shops and the like were all here. The heavy
                        trading section was further east along the banks of the Thames, and between
                        that and Regent Street, where my little hotel was located, lay the financial
                        section, sprawling around St.  Paul's
                        Cathedral and the Bank of England. One could go out of this great central
                        world easily enoughbut it was only, apparently, to get into minor centers
                        such as that about Victoria Station, Kensington, Paddington, Liverpool
                        Street, and the Elephant and Castle.
                    I may be mistaken, but London did not seem either so hard or foreign to me as
                        New York. I have lived in New York for years and years and yet I do not feel
                        that it is My city. One always feels in New York, for some reason, as though
                        he might be put out, or even thrown out. There is such a perpetual and heavy
                        invasion of the stranger. Here in London I could not help feeling offhand as
                        though things were rather stable and that I was welcome in the
                        world's great empire city on almost any basis on which I wished
                        myself taken. That sense of civility and courtesy to which I have already so
                        often referred was everywhere noticeable in mail-men, policemen, clerks,
                        servants. Alas, when I think of New York, how its rudeness, in contrast,
                        shocks me! At home I do not mind. With all the others I endure it. Here in
                        London for the first time in almost any great city I really felt at home.
                    But the distances! and the various plexi of streets! and the endless
                        directions in which one could go! Lord! Lord! how they confounded me. It may
                        seem odd to make separate comment on something so thoroughly involved with
                        everything else in a trip of this kind as the streets of London; but
                        nevertheless they contrasted so strangely with those of other cities I have
                        seen that I am forced to comment on them. For one thing, they are seldom
                        straight for any distance and they change their names as frequently and as
                        unexpectedly as a thief. Bond Street speedily becomes Old Bond Street or New
                        Bond Street, according to the direction in which you are going; and I never
                        could see why the Strand should turn  into
                        Fleet Street as it went along, and then into Ludgate Hill, and then into
                        Cannon Street. Neither could I understand why Whitechapel Road should change
                        to Mile End Road, but that is neither here nor there. The thing that
                        interested me about London was that it was endless and that there were no
                        high buildingsnothing over four or five stories as a rulethough now and then
                        you actually find eight- and nine-story buildingsand that it was homey and
                        simple and sad in some respects. I remember thinking how gloomy were some of
                        the figures I saw trudging here and there in the smoke-grayed streets and
                        the open park spaces. I never saw such sickly, shabby,
                        run-down-at-the-heels, decayed figures in all my lifefigures from which all
                        sap and juice and the freshness of youth and even manhood had long since
                        de-parted. Men and women they were who seemed to emerge out of gutters and
                        cellars where could be neither light nor freshness nor any sense of hope or
                        care, but only eloquent misery. "Merciful heaven!" I said
                        to myself more than once, "is this the figure of a man?"
                        That is what life does to some of us. It drains us as dry as the sickled
                        wheat stalks and leaves us to blow in wintry winds. Or it poisons us and
                        allows us to fester and decay within our own skins.
                    But mostly I have separate, vivid pictures of Londonindividual things that I
                        saw, idle, pointless things that I did, which cheer and amuse and please me
                        even now whenever I think of them. Thus I recall venturing one noon into one
                        of the Lyons restaurants just above Regent Street in Piccadilly and being
                        struck with the size and importance of it even though it was intensely
                        middle class. It was a great chamber, decorated after the fashion of a
                        palace ball-room, with immense chandeliers of prismed glass hanging from the
                        ceiling, and a balcony furnished in cream and gold where other tables were
                        set,  and where a large stringed orchestra
                        played continuously during lunch and dinner. An enormous crowd of very
                        commonplace people were thereclerks, minor officials, clergymen, small
                        shop-keepersand the bill of fare was composed of many homely dishes such as
                        beef-and-kidney pie, suet pudding, and the likecombined with others bearing
                        high-sounding French names. I mention this Lyons restaurant because there
                        were several quite like it, and because it catered to an element not reached
                        in quite the same way in America. In spite of the lifted eyebrows with which
                        Barfleur greeted my announcement that I had been there, the food was
                        excellent; and the service, while a little slow for a place of popular
                        patronage, was good. I recall being amused by the tall, thin, solemn English
                        head-waiters in frock coats, leading the exceedingly bourgeois customers to their tables. The English curate with his
                        shovel hat was here in evidence and the minor clerk. I found great pleasure
                        in studying this world, listening to the music, and thinking of the vast
                        ramifications of London which it represented; for every institution of this
                        kind represents a perfect world of people.
                    Another afternoon I went to the new Roman Catholic Cathedral in Westminster
                        to hear a fourteenth-century chant which was given between two and three by
                        a company of monks who were attached to the church. In the foggy London
                        atmosphere a church of this size takes on great gloom, and the sound of
                        these voices rolling about in it was very impressive. Religion seems of so
                        little avail these days, however, that I wondered why money should be
                        invested in any such structure or liturgy. Or why able-bodied, evidently
                        material-minded men should concern themselves with any such procedure. There
                        were scarcely a half-dozen people present, if so many; and yet this vast
                        edifice echoes every  day at this hour with
                        these voicesa company of twenty or thirty fat monks who seemingly might be
                        engaged in something better. Of religionthe spirit as opposed to the formone
                        might well guess that there was little.
                    From the cathedral I took a taxi, and bustling down Victoria Street, past the
                        Houses of Parliament and into the Strand, came eventually to St.
                        Paul's. Although it was only four o'clock, this huge
                        structure was growing dusky, and the tombs of Wellington and Marlborough
                        were already dim. The organist allowed me to sit in the choir stalls with
                        the choristersa company of boys who entered, after a time, headed by deacons
                        and sub-deacons and possibly a canon. A solitary circle of electric bulbs
                        flamed gloomily overhead. By the light of this we were able to make out the
                        liturgy covering this servicethe psalms and prayers which swept sonorously
                        through the building. As in the Roman Catholic Cathedral, I was impressed
                        with the darkness and space and also, though not so much for some reason
                        (temperamental inclination perhaps), with the futility of the procedure.
                        There are some eight million people in London, but there were only
                        twenty-five or thirty here, and I was told that this service was never much
                        more popular. On occasions the church is full enoughfull to overflowingbut
                        not at this time of day. The best that I could say for it was that it had a
                        lovely, artistic import which ought to be encouraged; and no doubt it is so
                        viewed by those in authority. As a spectacle seen from the Thames or other
                        sections of the city, the dome of St. Paul's is impressive, and as
                        an example of English architecture it is dignifiedthough in my judgment not
                        to be compared with either Canterbury or Salisbury. But the interesting
                        company of noble dead, the fact that the public now looks upon it as a
                        national mausoleum and that it is a monument to the genius of Christopher
                        Wren,  makes it worth while. Compared with
                        other cathedrals I saw, its chief charm was its individuality. In actual
                        beauty it is greatly surpassed by the pure Gothic or Byzantine or Greek
                        examples of other cities.
                    One evening I went with a friend of mine to visit the House of Parliament,
                        that noble pile of buildings on the banks of the Thames. For days I had been
                        skirting about them, interested in other things. The clock-tower, with its
                        great round clock-face,twenty-three feet in diameter, some one told me,had
                        been staring me in the face over a stretch of park space and intervening
                        buildings on such evenings as Parliament was in session, and I frequently
                        debated with myself whether I should trouble to go or not, even if some one
                        invited me. I grow so weary of standard, completed things at times! However,
                        I did go. It came about through the Hon. T. P. O'Connor, M.P., an
                        old admirer of "Sister Carrie," who, hearing that I was in
                        London, invited me. He had just finished reading "Jennie
                        Gerhardt" the night I met him, and I shall never forget the kindly
                        glow of his face as, on meeting me in the dining-room of the House of
                        Commons, he exclaimed:
                    "Ah, the biographer of that poor girl! And how charming she was,
                        too! Ah me! Ah me!"
                    I can hear the soft brogue in his voice yet, and see the gay romance of his
                        Irish eye. Are not the Irish all inborn cavaliers, anyhow?
                    I had been out in various poor sections of the city all day, speculating on
                        that shabby mass that have nothing, know nothing, dream nothing; or do they?
                        It was most depressing, as dark fell, to return through long, humble streets
                        alive with a home-hurrying mass of peopleclouds of people not knowing whence
                        they came or why. And now I was to return and go to dine where the laws are
                        made for all England.
                    
                    I was escorted by another friend, a Mr. M., since dead, who was, when I
                        reached the hotel, quite disturbed lest we be late. I like the man who takes
                        society and social forms seriously, though I would not be that man for all
                        the world. M. was one such. He was, if you please, a stickler for law and
                        order. The Houses of Parliament and the repute of the Hon. T. P.
                        O'Connor meant much to him. I can see O'Connor's
                        friendly, comprehensive eye understanding it allunderstanding in his deep,
                        literary way why it should be so.
                    As I hurried through Westminster Hall, the great general entrance, once
                        itself the ancient Parliament of England, the scene of the deposition of
                        Edward II, of the condemnation of Charles I, of the trial of Warren
                        Hastings, and the poling of the exhumed head of Cromwell, I was thinking,
                        thinking, thinking. What is a place like this, anyhow, but a fanfare of
                        names? If you know history, the long, strange tangle of steps or actions by
                        which life ambles crab-wise from nothing to nothing, you know that it is
                        little more than this. The present places are the thing, the present forms,
                        salaries, benefices and that dream of the mind which makes it all into
                        something. As I walked through into Central Hall, where we had to wait until
                        Mr. O'Connor was found, I studied the high, groined arches, the
                        Gothic walls, the graven figures of the general anteroom. It was all rich,
                        gilded, dark, lovely. And about me was a room full of men all titillating
                        with a sense of their own importancecommoners, lords possibly, call-boys,
                        ushers, and here and there persons crying of "Division!
                        Division!" while a bell somewhere clanged raucously.
                    "There's a vote on," observed Mr. M.
                        "Perhaps they won't find him right away. Never mind; he
                        'll come."
                    He did come finally, with, after his first greetings, a  "Well, now we'll ate, drink, and be
                        merry," and then we went in.
                    At table, being an old member of Parliament, he explained many things swiftly
                        and interestingly, how the buildings were arranged, the number of members,
                        the procedure, and the like. He was, he told me, a member from Liverpool,
                        which, by the way, returns some Irish members, which struck me as rather
                        strange for an English city.
                    "Not at all, not at all. The English like the Irish at
                        times," he added softly.
                    "I have just been out in your East End," I said,
                        "trying to find out how tragic London is, and I think my mood has
                        made me a little color-blind. It 's rather a dreary world, I should
                        say, and I often wonder whether law-making ever helps these
                        people."
                    He smiled that genial, equivocal, sophisticated smile of the Irish that
                        always bespeaks the bland acceptance of things as they are, and tries to
                        make the best of a bad mess.
                    "Yes, it 's bad," and nothing could possibly
                        suggest the aroma of a brogue that went with this,"but it
                        's no worse than some of your American citiesLawrence, Lowell, Fall
                        River." (Trust the Irish to hand you an intellectual "You
                        're another!") "Conditions in Pittsburgh are as
                        bad as anywhere, I think; but it's true the East End is pretty bad.
                        You want to remember that it 's typical London winter weather
                        we're having, and London smoke makes those gray buildings look
                        rather forlorn, it's true. But there's some comfort there,
                        as there is everywhere. My old Irish father was one for thinking that we all
                        have our rewards here or hereafter. Perhaps theirs is to be
                        hereafter." And he rolled his eyes humorously and sanctimoniously
                        heavenward.
                    An able man this, full, as I knew, from reading his  weekly and his books, of a deep, kindly understanding of life,
                        but one who, despite his knowledge of the tragedies of existence, refused to
                        be cast down.
                    He was going up the Nile shortly in a house-boat with a party of wealthy
                        friends, and he told me that Lloyd George, the champion of the poor, was
                        just making off for a winter outing on the Riviera, but that I might, if I
                        would come some morning, have breakfast with him. He was sure that the great
                        commoner would be glad to see me. He wanted me to call at his rooms, his
                        London official offices, as it were, at 5 Morpeth Mansions, and have a
                        pleasant talk with him, which latterly I did.
                    While he was in the midst of it, the call of "Division"
                        sounded once more through the halls, and he ran to take his place with his
                        fellow-parliamentarians on some question of presumably vital importance. I
                        can see him bustling away in his long frock coat, his napkin in his hand,
                        ready to be counted yea or nay, as the case might be.
                    Afterwards when he had outlined for me a tour in Ireland which I must
                        sometime take, he took us up into the members' gallery of the
                        Commons in order to see how wonderful it was, and we sat as solemn as owls,
                        contemplating the rather interesting scene below. I can-not say that I was
                        seriously impressed. The Hall of Commons, I thought, was small and stuffy,
                        not so large as the House of Representatives at Washington, by any means.
                    In delicious Irish whispers he explained a little concerning the arrangement
                        of the place. The seat of the speaker was at the north end of the chamber on
                        a straight line with the sacred wool sack of the House of Lords in another
                        part of the building, however important that may be. If I would look tinder
                        the rather shadowy canopy at the north end of this extremely square chamber,
                        I  would see him, "smothering under an
                        immense white wig," he explained. In front of the canopy was a
                        table, the speaker's table, with presumably the speaker's
                        official mace lying upon it. To the right of the speaker were the recognized
                        seats of the government party, the ministers occupying the front bench. And
                        then he pointed out to me Mr. Lloyd George, Mr. Bonar Law (Unionist member
                        and leader of the opposition), and Mr. Winston Churchill, all men creating a
                        great stir at the time. They were whispering and smiling in genial concert,
                        while opposite them, on the left hand of the speaker, where the opposition
                        was gathered, some droning M. P. from the North, I understood, a noble lord,
                        was delivering one of those typically intellectual commentaries in which the
                        British are fond of indulging. I could not see him from where I sat, but I
                        could see him just the same. I knew that he was standing very straight, in
                        the most suitable clothes for the occasion, his linen immaculate, one hand
                        poised gracefully, ready to emphasize some rather obscure point, while he
                        stated in the best English why this and this must be. done. Every now and
                        then, at a suitable point in his argument, some friendly and equally
                        intelligent member would give voice to a soothing "Hyah!
                        hyah!" or "Rathah!" Of the four hundred and
                        seventy-six provided seats, I fancy something like over four hundred were
                        vacant, their occupants being out in the dining-rooms, or off in those
                        adjoining chambers where parliamentarians confer during hours that are not
                        pressing, and where they are sought at the call for a division. I do not
                        presume, however, that they were all in any so safe or sane places. I
                        mock-reproachfully asked Mr. O'Connor why he was not in his seat,
                        and he said in good Irish:
                    "Me boy, there are thricks in every thrade. I'll be there
                        whin me vote is wanted."
                    
                    We came away finally through long, floreated passages and towering rooms,
                        where I paused to admire the intricate woodwork, the splendid gilding, and
                        the tier upon tier of carven kings and queens in their respective niches.
                        There was for me a flavor of great romance over it all. I could not help
                        thinking that, pointless as it all might be, such joys and glories as we
                        have are thus compounded. Out of the dull blatherings of half-articulate
                        members, the maunderings of dreamers and schemers, come such laws and such
                        policies as best express the moods of the timeof the British or any other
                        empire. I have no great faith in laws. To me, they are ill-fitting garments
                        at best, traps and mental catch-polls for the unwary only. But I thought as
                        I came out into the swirling city again, "It is a strange world.
                        These clock-towers and halls will sometime fall into decay. The dome of our
                        own capital will be rent and broken, and through its ragged interstices will
                        fall the pallor of the moon." But life does not depend upon
                        parliaments or men.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XI
                    THE THAMES
                    
                        AS pleasing hours as any that I spent in London were
                        connected with the Thames a murky little stream above London Bridge,
                        compared with such vast bodies as the Hudson and the Mississippi, but
                        utterly delightful. I saw it on several occasions,once in a driving rain off
                        London Bridge, where twenty thousand vehicles were passing in the hour, it
                        was said; once afterward at night when the boats below were faint,
                        wind-driven lights and the crowd on the bridge black shadows. I followed it
                        in the rain from Blackfriars Bridge, to the giant plant of the General
                        Electric Company at Chelsea one afternoon, and thought of Sir Thomas More,
                        and Henry VIII, who married Anne Boleyn at the Old Church near Battersea
                        Bridge, and wondered what they would think of this modern power-house. What
                        a change from Henry VIII and Sir Thomas More to vast, whirling electric
                        dynamos and a London subway system!
                    Another afternoon, bleak and rainy, I reconnoitered the section lying between
                        Blackfriars Bridge and Tower Bridge and found it very interesting from a
                        human, to say nothing of a river, point of view; I question whether in some
                        ways it is not the most interesting region in London, though it gives only
                        occasional glimpses of the river. London is curious. It is very modern in
                        spots. It is too much like New York and Chicago and Philadelphia and Boston;
                        but here between Blackfriars Bridge and the Tower, along Upper and Lower
                        Thames Street, I found something  thing that
                        delighted me. It smacked of Dickens, of Charles II, of Old England, and of a
                        great many forgotten, far-off things which I felt, but could not readily
                        call to mind. It was delicious, this narrow, winding street, with high
                        walls,high because the street was so narrow,and alive with people bobbing
                        along under umbrellas or walking stodgily in the rain. Lights were burning
                        in all the stores and warehouses, dark recesses running back to the restless
                        tide of the Thames, and they were full of an industrious commercial life.
                    It was interesting to me to think that I was in the center of so much that
                        was old, but for the exact details I confess I cared little. Here the Thames
                        was especially delightful. It presented such odd vistas. I watched the
                        tumbling tide of water, whipped by gusty wind where moderate-sized tugs and
                        tows were going by in the mist and rain. It was delicious, artistic, far
                        more significant than quiescence and sunlight could have made it. I took
                        note of the houses, the doorways, the quaint, winding passages, but for the
                        color and charm they did not compare with the nebulous, indescribable mass
                        of working boys and girls and men and women which moved before my gaze. The
                        mouths of many of them were weak, their noses snub, their eyes squint, their
                        chins undershot, their ears stub, their chests flat. Most of them had a
                        waxy, meaty look, but for interest they were incomparable. American working
                        crowds may be much more chipper, but not more interesting. I could not weary
                        of looking at them.
                    Lastly I followed the river once more all the way from Cleopatra's
                        Needle to Chelsea one heavily down-pouring afternoon and found its mood
                        varying splendidly though never once was it anything more than black-gray,
                        changing at times from a pale or almost sunlit yellow to a solid
                        leaden-black hue. It looked at times as though 
                        
                            Here the Thames was especially delightful
                        
                        
                         remarkable were about to happen, so weirdly
                        greenish-yellow was the sky above the water; and the tall chimneys of
                        Lambeth over the way, appearing and disappearing in the mist, were
                        irresistible. There is a certain kind of barge which plies up and down the
                        Thames with a collapsible mast and sail which looks for all the world like
                        something off the Nile. These boats harmonize with the smoke and the gray,
                        lowery skies. I was never weary of looking at them in the changing light and
                        mist and rain. Gulls skimmed over the water here very freely all the way
                        from Blackfriars to Battersea, and along the Embankment they sat in scores,
                        solemnly cogitating the state of the weather, perhaps. I was delighted with
                        the picture they made in places, greedy, wide-winged, artistic things.
                    Finally I had a novel experience with these same gulls one Sunday afternoon.
                        I had been out all morning reconnoitering strange sections of London, and
                        arrived near Blackfriars Bridge about one o'clock. I was attracted
                        by what seemed to me at first glance thousands of gulls, lovely clouds of
                        them, swirling about the heads of several different men at various points
                        along the wall. It was too beautiful to miss. It reminded me of the gulls
                        about the steamer at Fishguard. I drew near. The first man I saw was feeding
                        them minnows out of a small box he had purchased for a penny, throwing the
                        tiny fish aloft in the air and letting the gulls dive for them. They ate
                        from his hand, circled above and about his head, walked on the wall before
                        him, their jade bills and salmon-pink feet showing delightfully.
                    I was delighted, and hurried to the second. It was the same. I found the
                        vender of small minnows near by, a man who sold them for this purpose, and
                        purchased a few boxes. Instantly I became the center of another swirling
                        cloud, wheeling and squeaking in hungry anticipation.  It was a great sight. Finally I threw out the last minnows,
                        tossing them all high in the air, and seeing not one escape, while I
                        meditated on the speed of these birds, which, while scarcely moving a wing,
                        rise and fall with incredible swiftness. It is a matter of gliding up and
                        down with them. I left, my head full of birds, the Thames forever fixed in
                        mind.
                    I went one morning in search of the Tower, and coming into the neighborhood
                        of Eastcheap witnessed that peculiar scene which concerns fish. Fish
                        dealers, or at least their hirelings, always look as though they had never
                        known a bath and are covered with slime and scales, and here, they wore a
                        peculiar kind of rubber hat on which tubs or pans of fish could be carried.
                        The hats were quite flat and round and reminded me of a smashed
                        "stovepipe" as the silk hat has been derisively called.
                        The peasant habit of carrying bundles on the head was here demonstrated to
                        be a common characteristic of London.
                    On another morning I visited Pimlico and the neighborhood of Vincent Square.
                        I was delighted with the jumble of life I found there, particularly in
                        Strutton Ground and Churton Street. Horse Ferry Road touched me as a name
                        and Lupus Street was strangely suggestive of a hospital, not a wolf.
                    It was here that I encountered my first coster cart, drawn by the tiniest
                        little donkey you ever saw, his ears standing up most nobly and his eyes
                        suggesting the mellow philosophy of indifference. The load he hauled, spread
                        out on a large table-like rack and arranged neatly in baskets, consisted of
                        vegetablespotatoes, tomatoes, cabbage, lettuce and the like. A bawling
                        merchant or peddler followed in the wake of the cart, calling out his wares.
                        He was not arrayed in coster uniform, however, as it has been pictured in
                        America. I was delighted to  listen to the
                        cockney accent in Strutton Ground where "'Ere you are,
                        Lydy," could be constantly heard, and "Foine potytoes
                        these 'ere, Madam, hextra noice."
                    In Earl Street I found an old cab-yard, now turned into a garage, where the
                        remnants of a church tower were visible, tucked away among the jumble of
                        other things. I did my best to discover of what it had been a part. No one
                        knew. The ex-cabman, now dolefully washing the wheels of an automobile,
                        informed me that he had "only been work in' 'ere
                        a little wile," and the foreman could not remember. But it
                        suggested a very ancient English world as early as the Normans. Just beyond
                        this again I found the saddest little chapel part of an abandoned
                        machine-shop, with a small hand-bell over the door which was rung by means
                        of a piece of common binding-twine! Who could possibly hear it, I reflected.
                        Inside was a wee chapel, filled with benches constructed of store boxes and
                        provided with an altar where some form of services was conducted. There was
                        no one to guard the shabby belongings of the place and I sat down and
                        meditated at length on the curiosity of the religious ideal.
                    In another section of the city where I walked Hammersmith and still another
                        Seven Kings I found conditions which I thought approximated those in the
                        Bronx, New York, in Brooklyn, in Chicago and elsewhere. I could not see any
                        difference between the lines of store-front apartment houses in Seven Kings
                        and Hammersmith and Shepherd's Bush for that matter, and those in
                        Flatbush, Brooklyn or the South End of Philadelphia. You saw the difference
                        when you looked at the people and, if you entered a tavern, America was gone
                        on the instant. The barmaid settled that and the peculiar type of idler
                        found here. I recall in Seven Kings being entertained by the appearance of
                        the working-men  assembled, their. trousers
                        strapped about the knees, their hats or caps pulled jauntily awry. Always
                        the English accent was strong and, at times, here in London, it became
                        unintelligible to me. They have a lingo of their own. In the main I could
                        make it out, allowing for the appearance or disappearance of
                        "h's" at the most unexpected moments.
                    The street cars in the outlying sections are quite the same as in America and
                        the variety of stores about as large and bright. In the older portions,
                        however, the twisting streets, the presence of the omnibus in great numbers,
                        and of the taxi-stands at the more frequented corners, the peculiar uniforms
                        of policemen, mail-men, street-sweepers (dressed like Tyrolese
                        mountaineers), messenger-boys, and the varied accoutrements of the soldiery
                        gave the great city an individuality which caused me to realize clearly that
                        I was far from home a stranger in a strange land. As charming as any of the
                        spectacles I witnessed were the Scotch soldiers in bare legs, kilts, plaid
                        and the like swinging along with a heavy stride like Norman horses or singly
                        making love to a cockney English girl on a 'bus top perhaps. The
                        English craze for pantomime was another thing that engaged my curious
                        attention and why any reference to a mystic and presumably humorous
                        character known as "Dirty Dick" should evoke such volumes
                        of applause.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XII
                    MARLOWE
                    
                        AFTER I had been at Bridgely Level four or five days
                        Barfleur suggested that I visit Marlowe, which was quite near by on the
                        Thames, a place which he said fairly represented the typical small country
                        town of the old school.
                    "You will see there something which is not so generally common now
                        in England as it was a type of life which is changing greatly, I think; and
                        perhaps you had better see that now before you see much more."
                    I promised to go and Barfleur gave positive instructions as to how this was
                        to be achieved. I was to say to the maid when I would be ready. Promptly at
                        that hour one of the boys was to come and escort me to some point in the
                        road where I could see Marlowe. From there I was to be allowed to proceed
                        alone.
                    "You won't want to be bothered with any company, so just
                        send him back. You 'll find it very interesting."
                    The afternoon had faired up so beautifully that I decided I must go out of
                        doors. I was sick of writing. I gave notice to Dora, the maid, at luncheon
                        that I should want one of the boys for a guide at three o'clock,
                        and at ten minutes of the hour Percy entered my room with the air of a
                        soldier.
                    "When shall you be ready for your walk to Marlowe?" he
                        asked, in his stately tone.
                    "In just ten minutes now."
                    "And have you any objection to our walking to Marlowe with
                        you?"
                    "Are there two of you?"
                    
                    "Yes. My brother Charles and myself."
                    "None whatever. Your father does n't mind, does
                        he."?
                    "No, he does n't mind."
                    So at three Percy and Charles appeared at the window. Their faces were eager
                        with anticipation and I went at once to get my cap and coat. We struck out
                        along a road between green grass, and although it was December you would
                        have thought it April or May. The atmosphere was warm and tinged with the
                        faintest, most delicate haze. A lovely green moss, very fine, like powdered
                        salt, was visible on the trunks of the trees. Crows were in the air, and
                        robins an English robin is a solemn-looking bird on the lawns. I heaved a
                        breath of delight, for after days of rain and chill this burst of golden
                        light was most delicious.
                    On the way, as I was looking about, I was being called upon to answer
                        questions such as: "Are there any trees like these in Amyreeka? Do
                        you have such fine weather in Amyreeka? Are the roads as good as this in
                        Amyreeka?"
                    "Quite as good as this," I replied, referring to the one on
                        which we were walking, for it was a little muddy.
                    The way lay through a patch of nearly leafless trees, the ground strewn thick
                        with leaves, and the sun breaking in a golden shower through the branches. I
                        laughed for joy at being alive the hour was so fine. Presently, after going
                        down a bank so steep that it was impossible not to run if you attempted to
                        walk fast, we came to an open field, the west border of which was protected
                        by a line of willows skirting the banks of a flume which gave into the
                        Thames somewhere. Below the small bridge over which we passed was fastened a
                        small punt, that quaint little boat so common on the Thames. Beyond that was
                        a very wide field, fully twenty acres square, with  a yellow path running diagonally across it and at the end of
                        this path was Marlowe.
                    In the meantime my young friends insisted on discussing the possibility of
                        war between America and England and I was kept busy assuring them that
                        England would not be able to do anything at all with the United States. The
                        United States was so vast, I said. It was full of such smart people. While
                        England was attempting to do something with its giant navy, we should be
                        buying or building wonderful ships and inventing marvelous machines for
                        destroying the enemy. It was useless to plead with me as they did that
                        England had a great army and we none. "We can get one," I
                        insisted, "oh, a much vaster army than you could."
                    "And then Can-ee-dah," insisted Percy wisely,
                        "while you would be building your navy or drilling your army, we
                        should be attacking you through Can-ee-dah."
                    "But Canada does n't like you," I replied.
                        "And besides it only has six million people."
                    He insisted that Canada was a great source and hope and I finally said:
                        "Now, I 'll tell you what I 'll do. You want
                        England to whip the United States, don't you?"
                    "Yes," echoed both Percy and Charles heartily.
                    "Very well, then for peace and quiet's sake, I 'll
                        agree that it can. England can whip the United States both on sea and land.
                        Now is that satisfactory?"
                    "Yes," they echoed, unanimously.
                    "Very well then," I laughed. "It is agreed that
                        the United States is badly beaten everywhere and always by England. Is
                        n't Marlowe lovely?"and fixed my interested gaze on the
                        approaching village.
                    In the first glimpse of Marlowe some of the most joyous memories of my
                        childhood came back. I don't know whether you as a boy or a girl
                        loved to look in your first  reader at pictures
                        of quaint little towns with birds flying above belfries and gabled roofs
                        standing free in some clear, presumably golden air, but I did. And here,
                        across this green field lay a little town, the sweetness of which was most
                        appealing. The most prominent things were an arched bridge and a church,
                        with a square gray belfry, set in a green, tree-grown church-yard. I could
                        see the smooth surface of the Thames running beside it, and as I live, a
                        flock of birds in the sky.
                    "Are those rooks?" I asked of Percy, hoping for
                        poetry's sake that they were.
                    "Rooks or crows," he replied, "I don't
                        know which."
                    "Are there rooks in Amyreeka?"
                    "No there are no rooks."
                    "Ah, that's something."
                    I walked briskly because I wanted to reach this pretty scene while the sun
                        was still high, and in five minutes or so we were crossing the bridge. I was
                        intensely interested in the low gray stone houses, with here and there a
                        walk in front with a gate, and a very pretty churchyard lying by the water,
                        and the sylvan loveliness of the Thames itself.
                    On the bridge I stopped and looked at the water. It was as smooth as glass
                        and tinged with the mellow light which the sun casts when it is low in the
                        west. There were some small boats anchored at a gate which gave into some
                        steps leading up to an inn The Compleat Angler. On the other side, back of
                        the church was another inn the Lion and Elk or something like that and below
                        the bridge, more towards the west, an old man in a punt, fishing. There was
                        a very old man such as I have often seen pictured in Punch
                        and the Sketch, sitting near the support of the bridge, a
                        short black pipe between his very wrinkled lips. He was clad in thick
                        greenish-brown clothes and heavy shoes and a low flat  hat some curate may have discarded. His eyes, which he turned
                        up at me as I passed, were small and shrewd, set in a withered, wrinkled
                        skin, and his hands were a collection of dried lines, like wrinkled leather.
                    "There," I thought, "is a type quite expressive of
                        all England in its rural form. Pictures of England have been teaching me
                        that all my life."
                    I went into the church, which was located on the site of one built in the
                        thirteenth century and on the wall near the door was a list of the resident
                        vicars and their patrons, beginning with some long-since-forgotten soul. The
                        monks and the abbots of the pre-Reformation period were indicated and the
                        wars of the Reformation also. I think that bridge which I had crossed had
                        been destroyed by Cromwell and rebuilt only sixty or seventy years before,
                        but my memory is not good and I will not guarantee these facts.
                    From the church we went out into the street and found an old stock inside an
                        iron fence, dating from some older day where they punished people after that
                        fashion. We came to a store which was signaled by a low, small-paned window
                        let into a solid gray wall, where were chocolates and candies and
                        foreign-manufactured goods with labels I had never seen before. It is a
                        strange sensation to go away from home and leave all your own familiar
                        patent medicines and candies and newspapers and whiskies and journey to some
                        place where they never saw or heard of them.
                    Here was Marlowe, and lovely as it was, I kept saying to myself,
                        "Yes, yes, it is delicious, but how terrible it would be to live
                        here! I could n't. It's a dead world. We have passed so
                        far beyond this." I walked through the pretty streets as smooth and
                        clean as though they had been brushed and between rows of low, gray; winding
                        houses which curved in pretty, lines,  but for
                        the life of me I could not help swinging between the joy of art for that
                        which is alive and the sorrow for something that is gone and will never be,
                        any more. Everything, everything spoke to me of an older day. These houses
                        all of them were lower than they need be, grayer than they need be, thicker,
                        older, sadder. I could not think of gas or electricity being used here,
                        although they were, or of bright broad windows, open plumbing, modern street
                        cars, a stock of modern, up-to-date goods, which I am sure they contained. I
                        was impressed by a grave silence which is apathetic to me as nothing else a
                        profound peace. "I must get out of this," I said to
                        myself, and yet I was almost hugging my self for joy at the same time.
                    I remember going into one courtyard where an inn might once have been and
                        finding in there a furniture shop, a tin shop, a store room of some kind and
                        a stable, all invisible from the street. Do you recall Dickens'
                        description of busy inn scenes? You came into this one under the chamber
                        belonging to a house which was built over the entry way. There was no one
                        visible inside, though a man did cross the court finally with a wheel spoke
                        in his hand. One of the houses or shops had a little circular cupola on it,
                        quite white and pretty and surmounted by a faded weather cock. "How
                        lovely," I said, "how lovely," but I was as sad
                        as I could be.
                    In the stores in the main street were always small, many-paned windows. There
                        were no lights as yet and the rooms into which I peered and the private
                        doors gave glimpses of things which reminded me of the poorest, most
                        backward and desolate sections of our own country.
                    I saw an automobile here and there, not many, and some girls on bicycles,not
                        very good looking. Say what you will, you could not find an atmosphere like
                        this  in an American town, however small,
                        unless it had already been practically abandoned. It would not contain a
                        contented population of three or four hundred. Instead of saloons I saw
                        "wine and spirit merchants "and also "Mrs. Jane
                        Sawyer, licensed wine and spirit dealer." The butcher shops were
                        the most American things I saw, because their ruddy goods were all displayed
                        in front with good lights behind, and the next best things were the candy
                        stores. Dressmakers, milliners, grocers, hardware stores, wine shops,
                        anything and everything were apparently concealed by solid gray walls or at
                        best revealed by small-paned windows. In the fading afternoon I walked about
                        hunting for schools, some fine private houses, some sense of modernness but
                        no it was not there. I noticed that in two directions the town came abruptly
                        to an end, as though it had been cut off by a knife, and smooth, open, green
                        fields began. In the distance you could see other towns standing out like
                        the castellated walls of earlier centuries but here was an end, sharp,
                        definite, final.
                    I saw at one place the end of one of these streets and where the country
                        began an old gray man in a shabby black coat bending to adjust a yoke to his
                        shoulders to the ends of which were attached two buckets filled with water.
                        He had been into a low, gray, one-story inn entitled, "Ye Bank of
                        England," before which was set a bench and also a stone hitching
                        post. For all the world he looked like some old man in Hardy, wending his
                        fading, reflective way homeward. I said to myself here England is old; it is
                        evening in England and they are tired.
                    I went back toward the heart of things along another street, but I found
                        after a time it was merely taking me to another outer corner of the town. It
                        was gray now, and I was saying to my young companions that they must  be hurrying on home that I did not intend to
                        go back so soon. "Say I will not be home for dinner," I
                        told them, and they left after a time, blessed with some modern chocolate
                        which they craved very much.
                    Before they left, however, we reconnoitered another street and this led me
                        past low, one-story houses, the like of which, I insist, can rarely be
                        duplicated in America. Do you recall the log cabin? In England it is
                        preserved in stone, block after block of it. It originated there. The
                        people, as I went along, seemed so thick and stolid and silent to me. They
                        were healthy enough, I thought, but they were raw, uncouth, mirthless. There
                        was not a suggestion of gaiety anywhere not a single burst of song. I heard
                        no one whistling. A man came up behind us, driving some cattle, and the oxen
                        were quite upon me before I heard them. But there were no loud cries. He was
                        so ultra serious. I met a man pushing a dilapidated baby carriage. He was a
                        grinder of knives and mender of tinware and this was his method of
                        per-ambulating his equipment. I met another man pushing a hand cart with
                        some attenuated remnants of furniture in it. "What is
                        that?"I asked. "What is he?"
                    "Oh, he 's somebody who 's moving. He has
                        n't a van, you know."
                    Moving! Here was food for pathetic reflection.
                    I looked into low, dark doors where humble little tin and glass-bodied lamps
                        were beginning to flicker.
                    "Thank God, my life is different from this," I said, and
                        yet the pathos and the beauty of this town was gripping me firmly. It was as
                        sweet as a lay out of Horace as sad as Keats.
                    Before a butcher shop I saw a man trying to round up a small drove of sheep.
                        The grayish-yellow of their round wooly backs blended with the twilight.
                        They seemed to sense their impending doom, for they ran here  and there, poking their queer thin noses
                        along the ground or in the air and refusing to enter the low, gray entry way
                        which gave into a cobbled yard at the back where were located the deadly
                        shambles they feared. The farmer who was driving them wore a long black coat
                        and he made no sound, or scarcely any.
                    "Sooey!" he called softly "Ssh," as he
                        ran here and there this way and that.
                    The butcher or his assistant came out and caught one sheep, possibly the
                        bell-wether, by the leg and hauled him backward into the yard. Seeing this,
                        the silly sheep, not recognizing the enforced leadership, followed after.
                        Could there be a more convincing commentary on the probable manner in which
                        the customs and forms of life have originated?
                    I walked out another long street, quite alone now in the dusk, and met a man
                        driving an ox, also evidently to market.
                    There was a school in session at one place, a boys' school low,
                        ancient in its exterior equipment and silent as I passed. It was out,but there was no running no hallooing. The boys were
                        going along chatting rather quietly in groups. I do not understand this. The
                        American temper is more ebullient. I went into one bar Mrs.
                        Davidge's and found a low, dark room, with a very small grate fire
                        burning and a dark little bar where were some pewter mugs, some pink-colored
                        glasses and a small brass lamp with a reflector. Mrs. Davidge must have
                        served me herself, an old, slightly hunched lady in a black dress and gray
                        gingham apron. "Can this place do enough business to support
                        her?" I asked myself. There was no one in the shop while I was
                        there.
                    The charm of Marlowe to me was its extreme remoteness from the life I had
                        been witnessing in London and elsewhere. It was so simple. I had seen a
                        comfortable  inn somewhere near the market
                        place and this I was idly seeking, entertaining myself with reflections the
                        while. I passed at one place a gas manufacturing plant which looked modern
                        enough, in so far as its tank was concerned, but not otherwise, and then up
                        one dark street under branches of large trees and between high brick walls,
                        in a low doorway, behind which a light was shining, saw a shovel-hatted
                        curate talking to an old woman in a shawl. All the rest was dark. At another
                        corner I saw a thin old man, really quite reverential looking, with a peaked
                        intelligent face, fine in its lines (like Calvin or Dante or John Knox) and
                        long thin white hair, who was pulling a vehicle a sort of revised baby
                        carriage on which was, of all things, a phonograph with a high flower-like
                        tin horn. He stopped at one corner where some children were playing in the
                        dark and putting on a record ground out a melody which I did not consider
                        very gay or tuneful. The children danced, but not, however, with the
                        lightness of our American children. The people here seemed either like this
                        old man, sad and old and peaked, with a fine intellectuality apparent, or
                        thick and dull and red and stodgy.
                    When I reached the market I saw a scene which something some book or pictures
                        had suggested to me before. Solid women in shawls and flat, shapeless wrecks
                        of hats, and tall shambling men in queer long coats and high boots drovers
                        they looked like going to and fro. Children were playing about and laborers
                        were going home, talking a dialect which I could not understand, except in
                        part.
                    Five men came into the square and stood there under the central gas lamp,
                        with its two arms each with a light. One of them left the others and began
                        to sing in front of various doors. He sang and sang "Annie
                        Laurie," "Auld Lang Syne," "Sally in our
                        Alley," in a  queer nasal voice,
                        going in and coming out again, empty-handed I fancy. Finally he came to me.
                    "Would you help us on our way?" he asked.
                    "Where are you going?" I inquired.
                    "We are way-faring workmen," he replied simply, and I gave
                        him some coppers those large English "tuppences"that
                        annoyed me so much. He went back to the others and they stood huddled in the
                        square together like sheep, conferring, but finally they went off together
                        in the dark.
                    At the inn adjacent I expected to find an exceptional English scene of some
                        kind but I was more or less disappointed. It was homey but not so different
                        from old New England life. The room was large with an open fire and a
                        general table set with white linen and plates for a dozen guests or more. A
                        shambling boy in clothes much too big for him came and took my order,
                        turning up the one light and stirring the fire. I called for a paper and
                        read it and then I sat wondering whether the food would be good or bad.
                    While I was waiting a second traveler arrived, a small, dapper, sandy-haired
                        person, with shrewd, fresh, inquisitive eyes a self-confident and yet
                        clerkly man.
                    "Good evening," he said, and I gave him the time of day. He
                        bustled to a little writing table nearby and sat down to write, calling for
                        a pen, paper, his slippers I was rather puzzled by that demand and various
                        other things. On sight this gentleman (I suppose the English would abuse me
                        for that word) looked anything but satisfactory. I suspected he was Scotch
                        and that he was cheap minded and narrow. Later something about his manner
                        and the healthy, brisk way in which, when his slippers came, he took off his
                        shoes and put them on quite cheerful and homelike soothed me.
                    
                    "He is n't so bad," I thought. "He
                        's probably a traveling salesman the English type. I 'd
                        better be genial, I may learn something."
                    Soon the waiter returned (arrayed by this time, remarkable to relate, in a
                        dress suit the size of which was a piece of pure comedy in itself), and
                        brought the stranger toast and chops and tea. The latter drew up to the
                        other end of the table from me with quite an air of appetite and
                        satisfaction.
                    "They don't usually put us fellows in with you,"
                        he observed, stating something the meaning of which I did not grasp for the
                        moment. "Us traveling men usually have a separate dining- and
                        writing-room. Our place seems to be shut up here to-night for some reason. I
                        would n't have called for my slippers here if they had the other
                        room open."
                    "Oh, that 's quite all right," I replied,
                        gathering some odd class distinction. "I prefer company to silence.
                        You say you travel?"
                    "Yes, I 'm connected with a house in London. I travel in
                        the south of England."
                    "Tell me," I said, "is this a typical English town
                        from the point of view of life and business, or is it the only one of its
                        kind? It 's rather curious to me."
                    "It 's one of the poorest I know, certainly the poorest I
                        stop at. There is no life to speak of here at all. If you want to see a
                        typical English town where there 's more life and business you want
                        to see Canterbury or Maidenhead. No, no, you must n't judge England
                        by this. I suppose you 're traveling to see things. You
                        're not English, I see."
                    "No, I 'm from America. I come from New York."
                    "I had a strong notion before I came to London to go to America
                        after I left school" and to have heard  him pronounce school alone would have settled his
                        identity for those who know the Scotch. "Some of my friends went
                        there, but I decided not. I thought I'd try London instead and
                        I'm glad I did."
                    "You like it?"
                    "Oh, yes, from a money point I do. I make perhaps fifty per cent.
                        more than I did in Scotland but I may say, too, it costs me almost fifty per
                        cent. more to live." He said this with a sigh. I could see Scotch
                        thrift sticking out all over him. An interesting little man he proved, very
                        intelligent, very cautious, very saving. You could see early religious
                        training and keen desire to get up in the world in his every gesture.
                    We fell into a most interesting conversation, to me, for knowing so little of
                        England I was anxious to know more. Despite the littleness of my companion
                        and his clerkly manner I found him entertaining. He wanted to know what I
                        thought of England and I told him as much as I could judge by a few
                        days' stay. He told me something of London life its streets,
                        sections and so on and asked a great many questions about America. He had
                        the ability to listen intelligently which is a fine sign. He wanted to know
                        particularly what traveling salesmen receive in America and how far their
                        money goes. He was interested to know the difference between English and
                        American railroads. By this time the meal had ended and we were toasting our
                        toes before the fire. We were quite friendly.
                    "It's some little distance back to my place and I think I
                        'll be going," I said. "I don't know
                        whether I really know how to get there, but I'll try. I understand
                        there is no direct railroad connection between here and there. I may not be
                        able to find my way at night as it is."
                    "Well, I 'll walk with you a little way if you
                        don't  mind," he replied
                        solicitously. "I have nothing else to do."
                    The idea of companionship soothed me. Walking around alone and standing in
                        the market place looking at the tramping men had given me the blues. I felt
                        particularly lonely at moments, being away from America, for the difference
                        in standards of taste and action, the difference in modes of thought and
                        practice, and the difference in money and the sound of human voices was
                        growing on me. When you have lived in one country all your life and found
                        yourself comfortable in all its ways and notions and then suddenly find
                        yourself out of it and trying to adjust yourself to things that are
                        different in a hundred little ways, it is rather hard.
                    "That's very nice of you. I'd like to have
                        you," and out we went, paying our bills and looking into a misty
                        night. The moon was up but there was a fairly heavy fog and Marlowe looked
                        sheeted and gray. Because I stated I had not been in any of the public
                        houses and was interested to go, he volunteered to accompany me, though I
                        could see that this was against his principles.
                    "I don't drink myself," he observed, "but
                        I will go in with you if you want to. Here's one."
                    We entered and found a rather dimly lighted room, gas with a mantle over
                        it,set with small tables and chairs, and a short bar in one corner. Mrs.
                        Davidge's bar had been short, too, only her room was dingier and
                        small. A middle-sized Englishman, rather stout, came out of a rear door,
                        opening from behind the bar, and asked us what we would have. My friend
                        asked for root beer. I noticed the unescapable open fire and the array of
                        pink and green and blue wine glasses. Also the machinery for extracting beer
                        and ale from kegs, a most brassy and glowing sight. Our host  sold cigars and there were boards about on
                        the tables for some simple games.
                    This and a half-dozen other places into which we ventured gave me the true
                        spirit of Marlowe's common life. I recalled at once the vast
                        difference between this and the average American small town saloon. In the
                        latter (Heaven preserve us from it) the trade might be greater or it might
                        not, but the room would be larger, the bar larger, the flies, dirt, odor,
                        abominable. I hope I am not traducing a worthy class, but the American
                        saloon keeper of small town proclivities has always had a kind of horror for
                        me. The implements of his trade have always been so scummy and ill-kept. The
                        American place would be apt to be gayer, rougher, noisier. I am thinking of
                        places in towns of the same size. Our host was no more like an American
                        barkeeper than a bee is like a hornet. He was a peaceful-looking man,
                        homely, family marked, decidedly dull. Your American country barkeeper is
                        another sort, more intelligent, perhaps, but less civil, less sensible and
                        reliable looking. The two places were miles apart in quality and feeling.
                        Here in Marlowe and elsewhere in England, wherever I had occasion to inspect
                        them, the public houses of the small-town type were a great improvement over
                        the American variety. They were clean and homelike and cheerful. The array
                        of brass, the fire, the small tables for games, all pleased me. I took it to
                        be a place more used as a country club or meeting-house than as in our case
                        a grimy, orgiastic resort. If there were drunken men or women in any of the
                        "pubs," this night I did not see them. My Scotch friend
                        assured me that he believed them, ordinarily, to be fairly respectable.
                    Not knowing my way through the woods adjacent and having spent much time in
                        this way I finally decided to take a train or conveyance of some kind. But
                        there was  no train to be had for some time to
                        come. The trains there were did not run my way and no
                        "fly"would convey me, as one bar mistress informed me,
                        because there was a hard hill to climb and the rain which had fallen during
                        the day had made the roads bad. I began to meditate returning to the inn.
                        Finally the lady observed, "I can tell you how to get there, if you
                        want to walk. It's not more than an hour and it is a perfectly good
                        road all the way." She drew with her finger an outline of the
                        twists of the road. "If you're not afraid of a few screech
                        owls, there's nothing to harm you. You go to the bridge up here,
                        cross it and take the first road to your left. When you come to a culvert
                        about a mile out you will find three roads dividing there. One goes down the
                        hollow to somewhere, I forgot the name; one goes up the hill to Bridgely
                        Level, it's a bridle path; and one goes to the right. It's
                        a smooth, even road that's the one you want."
                    It was a lovely night. The moon overhead was clear and bright and the fog
                        gave the fields a white eerie look. As we walked, my friend regaled me with
                        what he said was a peculiar custom among English traveling men. At all
                        English inns there is what is known as the traveling men's club.
                        The man who has been present at any inn on any stated occasion for the
                        greatest number of hours or days is ipso facto, president
                        of this club. The traveling man who has been there next longest if only for
                        ten minutes less than the first, or more than the third, is vice president.
                        Every inn serves what is known as the traveling man's dinner at
                        twelve o'clock or thereabouts and he who is president by virtue of
                        the qualifications above described, is entitled to sit at the head of the
                        table and carve and serve the roast. The vice president, if there be one,
                        sits at the foot of the  table and carves and
                        serves the fowl. When there are two or more traveling men present, enough to
                        provide a president and a vice president for this dinner, there is a regular
                        order of procedure to be observed. The president arriving takes his seat
                        first at the head of the table; the vice president then takes his place at
                        the foot of the table. The president, when the roast beef is served, lifts
                        the cover of the dish and says, "Mr. Vice President, we have here,
                        I see, some roast beef." The vice president then lifts the cover of
                        his dish and says, "Mr. President we have here, I see, some roast
                        goose." "Gentlemen," then says the president,
                        bowing to the others present, "the dinner is for all," and
                        begins serving the roast. The vice president later does his duty in turn.
                        The next day in all likelihood, the vice president or some other becomes
                        president, and so it goes. My little Scotchman was most interested in
                        telling me this, for it appealed to his fancy as it did to mine and I could
                        see he relished the honor of being president in his turn.
                    It was while he was telling this that we saw before us three paths, the
                        middle one and the one to the right going up through the dark woods, the one
                        to the left merely skirting the woods and keeping out in the light.
                    "Let's see, it's the left you want, is
                        n't it?" he asked.
                    "No, it's the right," I replied.
                    "I think she said the left," he cautioned. "Well,
                        anyhow here's a sign post. You lift me up and I'll read
                        what it says."
                    It was n't visible from the ground.
                    I caught him about the legs and hoisted him aloft and he peered closely at
                        all three signs. He was a dapper, light little man.
                    "You 're right," he said.
                    We shook hands and wished each other luck. He struck off back along the road
                        he had come in the fog  and I mounted musingly
                        through the woods. It was dark and delightfully odorous, the fog in the
                        trees, struck by the moonlight, looking like moving sheeted ghosts. I went
                        on gaily expecting to hear a screech owl but not one sounded. After perhaps
                        fifteen or twenty minutes of walking I came out into the open road and then
                        I found that I really did not know where Bridgely Level was after all. There
                        was no sign.
                    I went from house to house in the moonlight it was after midnight rousing
                        drowsy Englishmen who courteously gave me directions and facing yowling dogs
                        who stood in the open roadway and barked. I had to push one barking guardian
                        out of the way with my hands. All was silent as a church yard. Finally I
                        came to a family of Americans who were newly locating for the winter not far
                        from Bridgely Level and they put me right. I recall the comment of the woman
                        who opened the door: "You're an American, are n't
                        you?" and the interest she took in being sure that I would find my
                        way. When I finally reached my door I paused in the garden to survey the
                        fog-lined valley from which came the distant bark of a dog.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIII
                    LILLY: A GIRL OF THE STREETS
                    
                        I STOOD one evening in Piccadilly, at the dinner hour,
                        staring into the bright shop windows. London's display of
                        haberdashery and gold and silver ornaments interests me intensely. It was
                        drizzling and I had no umbrella; yet that situation soon ceases to annoy one
                        in England. I walked on into Regent Street and stopped under an arc light to
                        watch the home-surging crowds the clerks, men and women, the boys and girls.
                    The thought was with me as I walked in the rain, "Where shall I
                        dine? How shall I do it?" I wandered through New Bond Street; and
                        looking idly at the dark stores, as I came back along Piccadilly, I saw two
                        girls, arm in arm, pass by. One of them looked over her shoulder at me and
                        smiled. She was of medium size and simply dressed. She was pretty in the
                        fresh English way, with large, too innocent eyes. The girls paused before a
                        shop window and as I stopped beside them and looked at the girl who had
                        smiled, she edged over toward me and I spoke to her.
                    "Would n't you like to take the two of us?" she
                        asked with that quaint odd accent of the Welsh. Her voice was soft and her
                        eyes were as blue and weak in their force as any unsophisticated
                        girl's might well be.
                    "This girl is n't hard and vulgar," I said to
                        myself. I suppose we all pride ourselves on knowing something of character
                        in women. I thought I did.
                    "No," I replied rather directly to her question.  "Not to-night. But let's
                        you and I go somewhere for dinner."
                    "Would you mind givin' my friend a
                        shillin'?" she asked.
                    "Not at all," I replied. "There you are."
                    It was a wet night, chill and dreary, and on second thought I made it
                        half-a-crown. The second girl went away a girl with a thin white face and I
                        turned to my companion.
                    "Now," I said, "what shall we do?" It was
                        nearly eight o'clock and I was wondering where I could go with such
                        a girl to dine. Her clothes, I perceived, were a mere patchwork. Her suit
                        was of blue twill, worn shiny. She wore the cheapest kind of a feather boa
                        and her hat was pathetic. But the color of her cheeks was that wonderful
                        apple color of the English and her eyes really her eyes were quite a triumph
                        of nature soft and deep blue, and not very self-protective.
                    "Poor little storm-blown soul," I thought as I looked at
                        her. "Your life is n't much. A vague, conscienceless thing
                        (in the softer sense of that word). You have a chilly future before
                        you."
                    She looked as though she might be nineteen.
                    "Let's see! Have you had your dinner?" I asked.
                    "No, sir."
                    "Where is there a good restaurant? Not too smart, you
                        know."
                    "Well, there's L.'s Corner House."
                    "Oh, yes, where is that? Do you go there yourself,
                        occasionally?"
                    "Oh, yes, quite often. It's very nice, I think."
                    "We might go there," I said. "Still, on second
                        thought, I don't think we will just now. Where is the place you go
                        to the place you take your friends?"
                    "It's at No. Great Titchfield Street."
                    
                    "Is that an apartment or a hotel?"
                    "It's a flat, sir, my flat. The lady lets me bring my
                        friends there. If you like, though, we could go to a hotel. Perhaps it would
                        be better."
                    I could see that she was uncertain as to what I would think of her apartment.
                    "And where is the hotel? Is that nice?"
                    "It's pretty good, sir, not so bad."
                    I smiled. She was holding a small umbrella over her head.
                    "We had better take a taxi and get out of this rain."
                    I put up my hand and hailed one. We got in, the driver obviously realizing
                        that this was a street liaison, but giving no sign. London taxi-drivers,
                        like London policemen, are the pink of civility.
                    This girl was civil, obliging. I was contrasting her with the Broadway and
                        the American type generally hard, cynical little animals. The English, from
                        prostitutes to queens, must have an innate sense of fair play in the social
                        relationship of live and let live. I say this in all sincerity and with the
                        utmost feeling of respect for the nation that has produced it. They ought to
                        rule, by right of courtesy. Alas, I fear me greatly that the force and speed
                        of the American, his disregard for civility and the waste of time involved,
                        will change all this.
                    In the taxi I did not touch her, though she moved over near to me in that
                        desire to play her rle conscientiously line by line, scene by scene.
                    "Have we far to go?" I asked perfunctorily.
                    "Not very, only a little way."
                    "How much ought the cab charge to be?"
                    "Not more than eight or ten pence, sir." Then, "Do
                        you like girls, sir?" she asked quaintly in a very human effort to
                        be pleasant under the circumstances.
                    "No," I replied, lying cautiously.
                    
                    She looked at me uncertainly a little over-awed, I think. I was surely a
                        strange fish to swim into her net anyhow.
                    "Very likely you don't like me then?"
                    "I am not sure that I do. How should I know? I never saw you before
                        in my life. I must say you have mighty nice eyes," was my rather
                        banal reply.
                    "Do you think so?" She gave me a sidelong, speculative
                        look.
                    "What nationality are you?" I asked.
                    "I'm Welsh," she replied.
                    "I did n't think you were English exactly. Your tone is
                        softer."
                    The taxi stopped abruptly and we got out. It was a shabby-looking building
                        with a tea- or coffee-room on the ground floor, divided into small rooms
                        separated by thin, cheap, wooden partitions. The woman who came to change me
                        a half sovereign in order that I might pay the driver, was French, small and
                        cleanly looking. She was pleasant and brisk and her whole attitude reassured
                        me at once. She did not look like a person who would conspire to rob, and I
                        had good reason to think more clearly of this as we came out later.
                    "This way," said my street girl, "we go up
                        here."
                    And I followed her up two flights of thinly carpeted stairs into a small
                        dingy room. It was clean, after the French fashion.
                    "It's not so bad?" she asked with a touch of
                        pride.
                    "No. Not at all."
                    "Will you pay for the room, please?"
                    The landlady had followed and was standing by.
                    I asked how much and found I was to be charged five shillings which seemed a
                        modest sum.
                    The girl locked the door, as the landlady went out, and began taking off her
                        hat and jacket. She stood before  me with
                        half-challenging, half-speculative eyes. She was a slim, graceful, shabby
                        figure and a note of pathos came out unexpectedly in a little air of bravado
                        as she rested one hand on her hip and smiled at me. I was standing in front
                        of the mantelpiece, below which was the grate ready to be fired. The girl
                        stood beside me and watched and plainly wondered. She was beginning to
                        suspect that I was not there on the usual errand. Her eyes, so curiously
                        soft and blue, began to irritate me. Her hair I noticed was brown but coarse
                        and dusty not well kept. These poor little creatures know absolutely nothing
                        of the art of living or fascination. They are the shabbiest pawns in life,
                        mere husks of beauty and living on husks.
                    "Sit down, please," I said. She obeyed like a child.
                    "So you 're Welsh. What part of Wales do you come
                        from?"
                    She told me some outlandish name.
                    What were your parents? Poor, I suppose."
                    "Indeed not," she bridled with that quaint country accent.
                        "My father was a grocer. He had three stores."
                    "I don't believe it," I said mockingly.
                        "You women lie so. I don't believe you 're
                        telling me the truth."
                    It was brutal, but I wanted to get beneath the conventional lies these girls
                        tell, if I could.
                    "Why not?" Her clear eyes looked into mine.
                    "Oh, I don't. You don't look to me like the
                        daughter of a man who owned three grocery stores. That would mean he was
                        well-to-do. You don't expect me to believe that, with you leading
                        this life in London?"
                    She bristled vaguely but without force.
                    "Believe it or not," she said sullenly. "It
                        's so."
                    "Tell me," I said, "how much can you make out of
                        this business?"
                    "Oh, sometimes more, sometimes less. I don't walk  every day. You know I only walk when I have
                        to. If I pick up a gentleman and if he gives me a good lot I don't
                        walk very soon again not until that 's gone. I I don't
                        like to very much."
                    "What do you call a good lot?"
                    "Oh, all sorts of sums. I have been given as high as six
                        pounds."
                    "That is n't true," I said. "You know it
                        is n't true. You 're talking for effect."
                    The girl's face flushed.
                    "It is true. As I 'm alive it 's true. It was
                        n't in this very room, but it was in this house. He was a rich
                        American. He was from New York. All Americans have money. And he was
                        drunk."
                    "Yes, all Americans may have money," I smiled sardonically,
                        "but they don't go round spending it on such as you in
                        that way. You 're not worth it."
                    She looked at me, but no angry rage sprang to her eyes.
                    "It's true just the same," she said meekly.
                        "You don't like women, do you?" she asked.
                    "No, not very much."
                    "You 're a woman-hater. That 's what you are. I
                        've seen such."
                    "Not a woman-hater, no. Simply not very much interested in
                        them."
                    She was perplexed, uncertain. I began to repent of my boorishness and
                        recklessly lighted the fire (cost one shilling). We drew up chairs before it
                        and I plied her with questions. She told me of the police regulations which
                        permit a woman to go with a man, if he speaks to her first, without being
                        arrested not otherwise and of the large number of women who are in the
                        business. Piccadilly is the great walking-ground, I understood, after one
                        o'clock in the morning; Leicester 
                        Square and the regions adjacent, between seven and eleven. There is another
                        place in the East End I don't recall where where the poor Jews and
                        others walk, but they are a dreadful lot, she assured me. The girls are
                        lucky if they get three shillings and they are poor miserable drabs. I
                        thought at the time, if she would look down on them, what must they be?
                    Then, somehow, because the conversation was getting friendly, I fancy, this
                        little Welsh girl decided perhaps that I was not so severe as I seemed.
                        Experience had trained her to think constantly of how much money she could
                        extract from men not the normal fee, there is little more than a poor living
                        in that, but extravagant sums which produce fine clothes and jewels,
                        according to their estimate of these things. It is an old story. Other women
                        had told her of their successes. Those who know anything of women the street
                        type know how often this is tried. She told the customary story of the man
                        who picked her up and, having escorted her to her room, offered her a pound
                        when three or four pounds or a much larger sum even was expected. The result
                        was, of course, according to her, dreadful for the man. She created a great
                        scene, broke some pottery over his head, and caused a general uproar in the
                        house. It is an old trick. Your timid man hearing this and being possibly a
                        new or infrequent adventurer in this world, becomes fearful of a scene. Many
                        men are timid about bargaining with a woman beforehand: It smacks too much
                        of the brutal and evil and after all there is a certain element of romance
                        involved in these drabby liaisons for the average man, even if there is none
                            as there is none for the woman. It is an old, sad,
                        sickening, grim story to most of them and men are fools, dogs, idiots, with
                        rarely anything fine or interesting in their eyes. When they see the least
                        chance to betray one of them, to browbeat  and
                        rob or overcharge him in any way and by any trick, they are ready to do it.
                        This girl, Lilly E, had been schooled by perhaps a hundred experienced
                        advisers of the street as to how this was done. I know this is so, for
                        afterwards she told me of how other women did it.
                    But to continue: "He laid a sovereign on the table and I went for
                        him," she said.
                    I smiled, not so much in derision as amusement. The story did not fit her.
                        Obviously it was not so.
                    "Oh, no, you did n't," I replied. "You
                        are telling me one of the oldest stories of the trade. Now the truth is you
                        are a silly little liar and you think you are going to frighten me, by
                        telling me this, into giving you two or three pounds. You can save yourself
                        the trouble. I don't intend to do it."
                    I had every intention of giving her two or three if it suited my mood later,
                        but she was not to know this now.
                    My little Welsh girl was all at sea at once. Her powerless but really sweet
                        eyes showed it. Something hurt the pathos of her courage and endurance in
                        the face of my contemptuous attitude. I had made fun of her obvious little
                        lies and railed at her transparent tricks.
                    "I 'm a new experience in men," I suggested.
                    "Men! I don't want to know anything more about
                        them," she returned with sudden fury. "I 'm sick
                        of them the whole lot of them! If I could get out of this I would. I wish I
                        need never see another man!"
                    I did not doubt the sincerity of this outburst. But I affected not to believe
                        her.
                    "It 's true!" she insisted sullenly.
                    "You say that, but that 's talk. If you wanted to get out,
                        you would. Why don't you get a job at something? You can
                        work."
                    
                    "I don't know any trade now and I 'm too old to
                        learn."
                    "What nonsense! You 're not more than nineteen and you
                        could do anything you pleased. You won't though. You are like all
                        the others. This is the easy way. Come," I said more gently,
                        "put on your things and let 's get out of this."
                    Obediently and without a word she put on her coat and her bedraggled hat and
                        we turned to the door.
                    "Look here," I said, "I have n't meant to
                        be unkind. And Heaven knows I 've no right to throw stones at you.
                        We are all in a bad mess in this world you and I, and the rest. You
                        don't know what I 'm talking about and it does
                        n't matter. And now let 's find a good quiet restaurant
                        where we can dine slowly and comfortably like two friends who have a lot to
                        talk over."
                    In a moment she was all animation. The suggestion that I was going to act
                        toward her as though she were a lady was, according to her standards, wildly
                        unconventional.
                    "Well, you 're funny," she replied, laughing;
                        "you really are funny." And I could see that for once, in
                        a long time, perhaps, the faintest touch of romance had entered this sordid
                        world for her.
                    As we came out, seeing that my attitude had changed so radically, she asked,
                        "Would you get me a box of cigarettes? I have n't any
                        change."
                    "Surely," I said, and we stepped into a
                        tobacconist's shop. From there we took a taxi to a certain
                        restaurant, which she seemed to regard as sufficiently luxurious; and from
                        there but I'll tell this in detail.
                    "Tell me," I said, after she had given the order, picking
                        something for herself and me; "you say you come from Wales. Tell me
                        the name of a typical mining-town  which is
                        nearer London than some of the others some place which is really poor and
                        hard-worked."
                    "Well, where I come from was pretty bad," she ventured,
                        giving me some unpronounceable name. "The people have n't
                        got much to live on there."
                    I wish you might have heard the peculiar purr of her accent.
                    "And how far is that?"
                    She gave me the hours from London and the rail-road fare in shillings. I
                        think it was about three hours at most.
                    "And Cardiff's pretty bad," she added.
                        "There 's lots of mines there. Very deep ones, too. The
                        people are poor there."
                    "Have you ever been in a mine?"
                    "Yes, sir."
                    I smiled at her civility, for in entering and leaving the room of the house
                        of assignation, she had helped me on and off with my overcoat, quite as a
                        servant might.
                    I learned a little about Wales through her its ill-paid life and then we came
                        back to London. How much did the average street girl really make? I wanted
                        to know. She could n't tell me and she was quite honest about it.
                    "Some make more than others," she said. "I
                        'm not very good at it," she confessed. "I
                        can't make much. I don't know how to get money out of
                        men."
                    "I know you don't," I replied with real sympathy.
                        "You 're not brazen enough. Those eyes of yours are too
                        soft. You should n't lie though, Lilly. You 're better
                        than that. You ought to be in some other work, worse luck."
                    She did n't answer, choosing to ignore my petty philosophic concern
                        over something of which I knew so little.
                    
                    We talked of girls the different kinds. Some were really very pretty, some
                        were not. Some had really nice figures, she said, you could see it. Others
                        were made up terribly and depended on their courage or their audacity to
                        trick money out of men dissatisfied men. There were regular places they
                        haunted, Piccadilly being the best the only profitable place for her kind
                        and there were no houses of ill repute the police did not allow them.
                    "Yes, but that can't be," I said. "And
                        the vice of London is n't concentrated in just this single
                        spot." The restaurant we were in a large but cheap affair was quite
                        a center, she said. "There must be other places. All the women who
                        do this sort of thing don't come here. Where do they go?"
                    "There's another place along Cheapside."
                    It appeared that there were certain places where the girls congregated in
                        this district saloons or quasi-restaurants, where they could go and wait for
                        men to speak to them. They could wait twenty minutes at a time and then if
                        no one spoke to them they had to get up and leave, but after twenty minutes
                        or so they could come back again and try their luck, which meant that they
                        would have to buy another drink. Meantime there were other places and they
                        were always full of girls.
                    "You shall take me to that Cheapside place," I suggested.
                        "I will buy you more cigarettes and a box of candy afterwards. I
                        will pay you for your time."
                    She thought about her traveling companion whom she had agreed to meet at
                        eleven, and finally promised. The companion was to be left to her fate.
                    While we dined we talked of men and the types they admired. Englishmen, she
                        thought, were usually attracted toward French girls and Americans liked
                        English girls, but the great trick was to get yourself up like  an American girl and speak her patois imitate
                        her slang, because she was the most popular of all.
                    "Americans and English gentlemen" she herself made that odd
                        distinction "like the American girl. I 'm sometimes taken
                        for one," she informed me, "and this hat is like the
                        American hats."
                    It was. I smiled at the compliment, sordid as it may appear.
                    "Why do they like them?" I asked.
                    "Oh, the American girl is smarter. She walks quicker. She carries
                        herself better. That's what the men tell me."
                    "And you are able to deceive them?"
                    "Yes."
                    "That's interesting. Let me hear you talk like an American.
                        How do you do it?"
                    She pursed her lips for action. "Well, I guess I 'll have
                        to go now," she began. It was not a very good imitation.
                        "All Americans say I guess,'" she informed me.
                    "And what else?" I said.
                    "Oh, let me see." She seemed lost for more. "You
                        teach me some," she said. "I knew some other words, but I
                        forget."
                    For half an hour I coached her in American slang. She sat there intensely
                        interested while I drilled her simple memory and her lips in these odd
                        American phrases, and I confess I took a real delight in teaching her. She
                        seemed to think it would raise her market value. And so in a way I was
                        aiding and abetting vice. Poor little Lilly E! She will end soon enough.
                    At eleven we departed for the places where she said these women congregated
                        and then I saw what the London underworld of this kind was like. I was told
                        afterwards that it was fairly representative.
                    
                    This little girl took me to a place on a corner very close to a restaurant we
                        were leaving I should say two blocks. It was on the second floor and was
                        reached by a wide stairway, which gave into a room like a circle surrounding
                        the head of the stairs as a center. To the left, as we came up, was a bar
                        attended by four or five pretty barmaids, and the room, quite small, was
                        crowded with men and women. The women, or girls rather, for I should say all
                        ranged somewhere between seventeen and twenty-six, were good looking in an
                        ordinary way, but they lacked the "go" of their American
                        sisters.
                    The tables at which they were seated were ranged around the walls and they
                        were drinking solely to pay the house for allowing them to sit there. Men
                        were coming in and going out, as were the other girls. Sometimes they came
                        in or went out alone. At other times they came in or went out in pairs.
                        Waiters strolled to and fro, and the etiquette of the situation seemed to
                        demand that the women should buy port wine why, I don't know. It
                        was vile stuff, tasting as though it were prepared of chemicals and I
                        refused to touch it. I was shown local detectives, girls who worked in
                        pairs, and those lowest of all creatures, the men who traffic in women. I
                        learned now that London closes all its restaurants, saloons, hotel bars and
                        institutions of this kind promptly at twelve-thirty, and then these women
                        are turned out on the streets.
                    "You should see Piccadilly around one o'clock in the
                        morning," my guide had said to me a little while before, and now I
                        understood. They were all forced out into Piccadilly from everywhere.
                    It was rather a dismal thing sitting here, I must confess. The room was
                        lively enough, but this type of life is so vacant of soul. It is precisely
                        as though one stirred in straw and sawdust, expecting it to be vigorous with
                        the  feel of growing life and freshness, such
                        as one finds in a stalk or tree. It is a world of dead ideals I should say
                        or, better yet, a world in which ideals never had a chance to grow. The
                        women were the veriest birds of prey, cold, weary, disillusioned, angry,
                        dull, sad, perhaps; the men were victims of carnal desire without the
                        ability to understand how weary and disgusted the women were who sought to
                        satisfy them. No clear understanding of life on either side; no suggestion
                        of delicacy or romance. No subtlety of lure or parade. Rather, coarse, hard
                        bargaining in which robbery and abuse and bitter recrimination play a sodden
                        part. I know of nothing so ghastly, so suggestive of a totally dead spirit,
                        so bitter a comment on life and love and youth and hope as a street
                        girl's weary, speculative, commercial cry of "Hello,
                        sweetheart!"
                    From this first place we went to others not so good, Lilly told me.
                    It is a poor world. I do not attempt to explain it. The man or woman of
                        bridled passion is much better off. As for those others, how much are they
                        themselves to blame? Circumstances have so large a part in it. I think, all
                        in all, it is a deadly hell-hole; and yet I know that talking is not going
                        to reform it. Life, in my judgment, does not reform. The world is old.
                        Passion in all classes is about the same. We think this shabby world is
                        worst because it is shabby. But is it? Is n't it merely that we are
                        different used to different things? I think so.
                    After buying her a large box of candy I hailed a taxi and took my little girl
                        home to her shabby room and left her. She was very gay. She had been made
                        quite a little of since we started from the region of rented rooms. Her
                        purse was now the richer by three pounds. Her opinion had been asked, her
                        advice taken, she had been  allowed to order.
                        I had tried to make her feel that I admired her a little and that I was
                        sorry for her a little. At her door, in the rain, I told her I might use
                        some of this experience in a book sometime. She said, "Send me a
                        copy of your book. Will I be in it?"
                    "Yes."
                    "Send it to me, will you?"
                    "If you 're here."
                    "Oh, I 'll be here. I don't move often."
                    Poor little Welsh waif! I thought, how long, how long, will she be
                        "here" before she goes down before the grim shapes that
                        lurk in her dreary path disease, despair, death?
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIV
                    LONDON; THE EAST. END
                    
                        AS interesting as any days that I spent in London were two
                        in the East End, though I am sorry to add more drabby details to those just
                        narrated. All my life I had heard of this particular section as grim,
                        doleful, a center and sea of depraved and depressed life.
                    "Nothing like the East End of London," I have heard people
                        say, and before I left I expected to look over it, of course. My desire to
                        do so was whetted by a conversation I had with the poet, John Masefield,
                        who, if I remember rightly, had once lived in the extreme East End of
                        London, Canningtown. He had talked of the curious physical condition of the
                        people which he described as "bluggy" or stagnant. Little
                        intelligence in the first place, according to him, seemed to be breeding
                        less and less intelligence as time went on. Poverty, lack of wits, lack of
                        ambition were fostering in-breeding. Such things are easy to say. No one can
                        really tell. Even more interesting to me was the proffered information
                        concerning East End amusements calf-eating contests, canary-singing
                        contests, whiffet races, pigeon-eating contests. I was told it would be hard
                        to indicate how simple-minded the people were in many things and yet how low
                        and dark in their moods, physical and moral. I got a suggestion of this some
                        days later, when I discovered in connection with the police courts that
                        every little while the court-room is cleared in order that terrible,
                        unprintable, almost unbearable testimony may be taken. What he said to me
                             somehow suggested the atmosphere of the
                        Whitechapel murders those demoniac crimes that had thrilled the world a few
                        years before.
                    I must confess that my first impression was one of disappointment. America is
                        strident and its typical "East Side" and slum conditions
                        are strident also. There is no voiceless degradation that I have ever seen
                        in America. The East Side of New York is unquestionably one of the noisiest
                        spots in the world, if not the worst. It is so full of children so full of
                        hope too.
                    I was surprised to find how distinctly different are the two realms of
                        poverty in New York and London.
                    On my first visit I took the subway or tube to St. Mary's Station,
                        Whitechapel, and getting out, investigated all that region which lies
                        between there and the Great Eastern Railway Station and Bethnal Green and
                        Shoreditch. I also reconnoitered Bethnal Green.
                    It was a chill, gray, January day. The London haze was gray and heavy, quite
                        depressing. Almost at once I noticed that this region which I was in,
                        instead of being strident and blatant as in America, was peculiarly quiet.
                        The houses, as in all parts of London, were exceedingly low, two and three
                        stories, with occasional four- and five-story buildings for variation, but
                        all built out of that drab, yellowish-gray brick which when properly smoked
                        has such a sad and yet effective air. The streets were not narrow, as in New
                        York's East Side, quite the contrary; but the difference in crowds,
                        color, noise, life, was astounding. In New York the East Side streets, as I
                        have said, are almost invariably crowded. Here they were almost empty. The
                        low doors and areaways oozed occasional figures who were either thin, or
                        shabby, or dirty, or sickly, but a crowd was not visible anywhere. They
                        seemed to me to slink along in a half-hearted way and I, for one,
                        experienced no sense of desperado criminality 
                        of any kind only a low despair. The people looked too meek too law-governed.
                        The policeman must be an immense power in London. Vice? yes. Poverty? yes. I
                        saw young boys and girls with bodies which seemed to me to be but half made
                        up by nature half done. They were ambling, lackadaisical, weary-looking.
                        Low? yes, in many cases. Filthy? yes. Savage or dangerous? not at all. I
                        noticed the large number of cheap cloth caps worn by the men and boys and
                        the large number of dull gray shawls wrapped slatternwise about the
                        shoulders of the women. This world looked sad enough in all conscience,
                        inexpressibly so, but because of the individual houses in many instances,
                        the clean streets and the dark tiny shops, not unendurable even homey in
                        instances. I ventured to ask a stalwart London policeman they are all
                        stalwart in London "Where are the very poor in the East End the
                        poorest there are?"
                    "Well, most of these people hereabouts have little enough to live
                        on," he observed, looking straight before him with that charming
                        soldierly air the London police-men have his black strap under his chin.
                    I walked long distances through such streets as Old Montague, King Edward,
                        Great Carden, Hope, Brick Lane, Salesworthy, Flower, Dean, Hare, Fuller,
                        Church Row, Cheshire, Hereford, a long, long list, too long to give here,
                        coming out finally at St. John's Catholic Church at Bethnal Green
                        and taking a car line for streets still farther out. I had studied shops,
                        doorways, areas, windows, with constant curiosity. The only variation I saw
                        to a dead level of sameness, unbroken by trees, green places or handsome
                        buildings of any kind, were factory chimneys and endless charitable
                        institutions covering, apparently, every form of human weakness or
                        deficiency, but looking as if they were much drearier  than the thing they were attempting to cure. One of them I
                        remember was an institution for the orphans of seamen, and another a
                        hospital for sick Spanish Jews. The lodging-houses for working-girls and
                        working-boys were so numerous as to be discouraging and so dreary looking
                        that I marveled that any boy or girl should endure to live in them. One
                        could sense all forms of abuse and distress here. It would spring naturally
                        out of so low a grade of intelligence. Only a Dickens, guided by the lamp of
                        genius, could get at the inward spirit of these, and then perhaps it would
                        not avail. Life, in its farthest reaches, sinks to a sad ugly mess and stays
                        there.
                    One of the places that I came upon in my perambulations was a public
                        washhouse, laundry and bath, established by the London County Council, if I
                        remember rightly, and this interested me greatly. It was near Winchester
                        Street and looked not unlike a low, one-story, factory building. Since these
                        things are always fair indications of neighborhoods, I entered and asked
                        permission to inspect it. I was directed to the home or apartment of a small
                        martinet of a director or manager, quite spare and dark and cockney, who
                        frowned on me quizzically when he opened his door, a perfect devil of a
                        cheap superior who was for putting me down with a black look. I could see
                        that it was one of the natives he was expecting to encounter.
                    "I would like to look over the laundry and baths," I said.
                    "Where do you come from?" he asked.
                    "America," I replied.
                    "Oh! Have you a card?"
                    I gave him one. He examined it as though by some chance it might reveal
                        something concerning me. Then he said if I would go round to the other side
                        he would admit me. I went and waited a considerable time before  he appeared. When he did, it was to lead me
                        with a very uncertain air first into the room filled with homely bath
                        closets, where you were charged a penny more or less according to whether
                        you had soap and towel or not and where the tubs were dreary affairs with
                        damp-looking wooden tops or flanges, and thence into the washroom and
                        laundry-room, where at this time in the afternoon about four
                        o'clock perhaps a score of women of the neighborhood were either
                        washing or ironing.
                    Dreary! dreary! dreary! Ghastly! In Italy, later, and southern France, I saw
                        public washing under the sky, beside a stream or near a fountain a broken,
                        picturesque, deliciously archaic fountain in one instance. Here under gray
                        skies, in a gray neighborhood, and in this prison-like washroom was one of
                        the most doleful pictures of life the mind of man could imagine. Always when
                        I think of the English, I want to go off into some long analysis of their
                        character. We have so much to learn of life, it seems to me, and among the
                        first things is the chemistry of the human body. I always marvel at the
                        nature of the fluids which make up some people. Different climates must
                        produce different kinds, just as they produce strange kinds of trees and
                        animals. Here in England this damp, gray climate produces a muggy sort of
                        soul which you find au naturel only when you walk among
                        the very poor in such a neighborhood as this. Here in this wash-house I saw
                        the low English au naturel, but no passing commentary such
                        as this could do them justice. One would have to write a book in order to
                        present the fine differences. Weakness, lowness of spirit, a vague
                        comprehension of only the simplest things, combined with a certain meaty
                        solidarity, gave me the creeps. Here they were, scrubbing or ironing;
                        strings tied around their protuberant stomachs to keep their skirts up;
                        clothes the color of lead or darker,  and
                        about as cheerful; hair gray or brownish-black, thin, unkempt; all of them
                        flabby and weary-looking about the atmosphere one would find in an American
                        poorhouse.
                    They washed here because there were no washing facilities in their own homes
                        no stationary tubs, no hot or cold water, no suitable stoves to boil water
                        on. It was equally true of ironing facilities, the director told me. They
                        came from blocks away. Some women washed here for whole vicinities the more
                        industrious ones. And yet few came here at that the more self-respecting
                        stayed away. I learned this after a long conversation with my guide whose
                        principal commentary was that they were a worthless lot and that you had to
                        watch them all the time. "If you don't," he said
                        in cockney English, "they won't keep things clean. You
                        can't teach 'em scarcely how to do things right. Now and
                        then they gets their hands caught." He was referring to the
                        washing-drums and the mangles. It was a long story, but all I got out of it
                        was that this was a dreary world, that he was sick of his position but
                        compelled to keep it for financial reasons, that he wanted as little as
                        possible to do with the kind of cattle which he considered these people to
                        be and that he would prefer to give it up. There was a touch of socialism in
                        all this trying to do for the masses but I argued that perhaps under more
                        general socialistic conditions things would be better; certainly, one would
                        have to secure more considerate feelings on the part of directors and some
                        public approval which would bring out the better elements. Perhaps under
                        truer socialism, however, public wash-houses would not be necessary at all.
                        Anyhow, the cry from here to Bond Street and the Houses of Parliament and
                        the stately world of the Lords seemed infinitely far. What can society do
                        with the sad, shadowy base on which it rests?
                    
                    I came another day to another section of this world, approaching the East End
                        via Aldgate and Commercial Road, and cutting through to Bethnal Green via
                        Stepney. I found the same conditions clean streets, low gray buildings,
                        shabby people, a large museum whose chief distinction was that the floor of
                        its central rotunda had been laid by women convicts! and towering chimneys.
                        So little life existed in the streets, generally speaking, that I confess I
                        was depressed. London is so far flung. There were a great many Jews of
                        Russian, Roumanian and Slavic extraction, nearly all bearing the marks of
                        poverty and ignorance, but looking shrewd enough at that, and a great many
                        physically deteriorated English. The long-bearded Jew with trousers sagging
                        about his big feet, his small derby hat pulled low over his ears, his hands
                        folded tightly across his back, was as much in evidence here as on the East
                        Side in New York. I looked in vain for restaurants or show places of any
                        kind (saloons, moving pictures, etc.). There were scarcely any here. This
                        whole vicinity seemed to me to be given up to the poorest kind of living
                        sad, drab, gray. No wonder the policeman said to me: "Most of these
                        people hereabouts have little enough to live on." I 'm
                        sure of it. Finally, after a third visit, I consulted with another writer, a
                        reputed authority on the East End, who gave me a list of particular
                        neighborhoods to look at. If anything exceptional was to be detected from
                        the appearance of the people, beyond what I have noted, I could not see it.
                        I found no poor East End costers with buttons all over their clothes,
                        although they once existed here. I found no evidence of the overcrowded home
                        life, because I could not get into the houses to see. Children, it seemed to
                        me, were not nearly so numerous as in similar areas in American cities. Even
                        a police-court proceeding I saw in Avon Square was too dull to be
                        interesting.  I was told I might expect the
                        most startling crimes. The two hours I spent in court developed only
                        drunkenness and adultery. But as my English literary guide informed me, only
                        time and familiarity with a given neighborhood would develop anything. I
                        believe this. All I felt was that in such a dull, sordid, poor-bodied world
                        any depth of filth or crime might be reached, but who cares to know?
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XV
                    ENTER SIR SCORP
                    
                        DURING all my stay at Bridgely Level I had been hearing
                        more or less an occasional remark of a certain Sir Scorp, an Irish knight
                        and art critic, a gentleman who had some of the finest Manets in the world.
                        He had given Dublin its only significant collection of modern pictures in
                        fact, Ireland should be substituted for Dublin, and for this he was
                        knighted. He was the art representative of some great museum in South Africa
                        at Johannesburg, I think, and he was generally looked upon as an authority
                        in the matter of pictures.
                    Barfleur came one evening to my hotel with the announcement that Sir Scorp
                        was coming down to Bridgely Level to spend Saturday and Sunday, that he
                        would bring his car and that together on Sunday we three would motor to
                        Oxford. Barfleur had an uncle who was a very learned master of Greek at that
                        University and who, if we were quite nice and pleasant, might give us
                        luncheon. We were, I found, to take a little side trip on Saturday afternoon
                        to a place called Penn, some twenty or twenty-five miles from Bridgely
                        Level, in Buckinghamshire, whence William Penn had come originally.
                    Saturday was rainy and gloomy and I doubted whether we should do anything in
                        such weather, but Barfleur was not easily put out. I wrote all morning in my
                        alcove, while Barfleur examined papers, and some time after two Sir Scorp
                        arrived, a pale, slender, dark-eyed man of thirty-five or thereabouts, with
                        a keen, bird-like glance, a poised, nervous, sensitive manner, and that
                        elusive, subtlety  of reference and speech
                        which makes the notable intellectual wherever you find him. For the ten
                        thousandth time in my life, where intellectuals are concerned, I noticed
                        that peculiarity of mind which will not brook equality save under
                        compulsion. Where are your credentials? such minds invariably seem to ask.
                        How do you come to be what you think you are? Is there a flaw in your
                        intellectual or artistic armor? Let us see. So the duel of ideas and forms
                        and methods of procedure begins, and you are made or unmade, in the
                        momentary estimate of the individual, by your ability to withstand
                        criticism. I liked Sir Scorp as intellectuals go. I liked his pale face, his
                        trim black beard, his slim hands and his poised, nervous, elusive manner.
                    "Oh, yes. So you 're new to England. I envy you your early
                        impression. I am reserving for the future the extreme pleasure of reading
                        you." These little opening civilities always amuse me. We are all
                        on the stage and we play our parts perforce whether we do so consciously or
                        not.
                    It appeared that the chauffeur had to be provided for, Sir Scorp had to be
                        given a hasty lunch. He seemed to fall in with the idea of a short run to
                        Penn before dark, even if the day were gloomy, and so, after feeding him
                        quickly before the grate fire in the drawing-room, we were off Sir Scorp,
                        Barfleur, Berenice and Percy Barfleur's son and myself. Sir Scorp
                        sat with me in the tonneau and Barfleur and Percy in the front seat.
                    Sir Scorp made no effort to strike up any quick relationship with me remained
                        quite aloof and talked in generalities. I could see that he took himself
                        very seriously as well he might, seeing that, as I understood it, he had
                        begun life with nothing. There were remarks.familiar ones concerning
                        well-known painters, sculptors, architects, and the social life of England.
                    
                    This first afternoon trip was pleasant enough, acquainting me as it did with
                        the character of the country about Bridgely Level for miles and miles. Up to
                        this time I had been commiserated on the fact that it was winter and I was
                        seeing England under the worst possible conditions, but I am not so sure
                        that it was such a great disadvantage. To-day as we sped down some damp,
                        slippery hillside where the river Thames was to be seen far below twisting
                        like a letter S in the rain, I thought to myself that light and color summer
                        light and color would help but little. The villages that we passed were all
                        rain-soaked and preternaturally solemn. There were few if any people abroad.
                        We slid not pass a single automobile on the way to Penn and but a single
                        railroad track. These little English villages for all the extended English
                        railway system, are practically without railway communication. You have to
                        drive or walk a number of miles to obtain suitable railway connection.
                    I recall the sag-roofed, moss-patterned, vine-festooned cottages of once red
                        but now brownish-green brick, half hidden behind high brick walls where
                        curiously clipped trees sometimes stood up in sentinel order, and vines and
                        bushes seemed in a conspiracy to smother the doors and windows in an excess
                        of knitted leafage. Until you see them no words can adequately suggest the
                        subtlety of age and some old order of comfort, once prevailing, but now
                        obsolete, which these little towns and separate houses convey. You know, at
                        a glance, that they are not of this modern work-a-day world. You know at a
                        glance that no power under the sun can save them. They are of an older day
                        and an older thought the thought perhaps that goes with Gray's
                        "Elegy "and Goldsmith's "Traveller
                        "and "Deserted Village."
                    That night at dinner, before and after, we fell into a most stirring
                        argument. As I recall, it started  with Sir
                        Scorp's insisting that St. Paul's of London, which is a
                        product of the skill of Sir Christopher Wren, as are so many of the smaller
                        churches of London, was infinitely superior externally to the comparatively
                        new and still unfinished Roman Catholic Cathedral of Westminster. With that
                        I could not agree. I have always objected, anyhow, to the ground plan of the
                        Gothic cathedral, namely, the cross, as being the worst possible arrangement
                        which could be devised for an interior. It is excellent as a scheme for
                        three or four interiors the arms of the cross being always invisible from
                        the nave but as one interior, how can it compare with the straight-lying
                        basilica which gives you one grand forward sweep, or the solemn Greek temple
                        with its pediment and glorifying rows of columns. Of all forms of
                        architecture, other things being equal, I most admire the Greek, though the
                        Gothic exteriorly,-even more than interiorly, has a tremendous appeal. It is
                        so airy and florate.
                    However, St. Paul's is neither Greek, Gothic, nor anything else very
                        much a staggering attempt on the part of Sir Christopher Wren to achieve
                        something new which is to me not very successful. The dome is pleasing and
                        the interior space is fairly impressive, but the general effect is botchy,
                        and I think I said as much. Naturally this was solid ground for an argument
                        and the battle raged to and fro, through Greece, Rome, the Byzantine East
                        and the Gothic realms of Europe and England. We finally came down to the
                        skyscrapers of New York and Chicago and the railway terminals of various
                        American cities, but I shall not go into that. What was more important was
                        that it raised a question concerning the proletariate of England, the common
                        people from whom, or because of whom, all things are made to rise, and this
                        was based on the final conclusion that all architecture is, or should be, an
                        expression of  national temperament, and this
                        as a fact was partly questioned and partly denied, I think. It began by my
                        asking whether the little low cottages we had been seeing that afternoon the
                        quaint windows, varying gables, pointless but delicious angles, and the
                        battered, time-worn state of houses generally was an expression of the
                        English temperament. Mind you, I love what these things stand for. I love
                        the simpleness of soul which somehow is conveyed by Burns and Wordsworth and
                        Hardy, and I would have none of change if life could be ordered so sweetly
                        if it could really stay. Alas, I know it can not. Compared to the speed and
                        skill which is required to manipulate the modern railway trains, the express
                        companies, the hotels, the newspapers, all this is helpless, pathetic.
                    Sir Scorp's answer was yes, that they were an expression, but that,
                        nevertheless, the English mass was a beast of muddy brain. It slid not could
                        not quite understand what was being done. Above it were superimposed
                        intellectual classes, each smaller and more enthusiastic and aware as you
                        reach the top. At least, it has been so, he said, but now democracy and the
                        newspapers are beginning to break up this lovely solidarity of simplicity
                        and ignorance into something that is not so nice.
                    "People want to get on now," he declared. "They
                        want each to be greater than the other. They must have baths and telephones
                        and railways and they want to undo this simplicity. The greatness of England
                        has been clue to the fact that the intellectual superior classes with higher
                        artistic impulses and lovelier tendencies generally could direct the masses
                        and like sheep they would follow. Hence all the lovely qualities of England;
                        its ordered households, its beautiful cathedrals, its charming castles and
                        estates, its good roads, its delicate  homes,
                        and order and precedences. The magnificent princes of the realm have been
                        able to do so much for art and science because their great impulses need not
                        be referred back to the mass the ignorant, non-understanding mass for
                        sanction."
                    Sir Scorp sprang with ease to Lorenzo, the magnificent, to the princes of
                        Italy, to Rome and the Csars for illustration. He cited France and Louis.
                        Democracy, he declared, is never going to do for all what the established
                        princes could do. Democracy is going to be the death of art. Not so, I
                        thought and said, for democracy can never alter the unalterable difference
                        between high and low, rich and poor, little brain and big brain, strength
                        and weakness. It cannot abolish difference and make a level plane. It simply
                        permits the several planes to rise higher together. What is happening is
                        that the human pot is boiling again. Nations are undergoing a transition
                        period. We are in a maelstrom, which means change and reconstruction.
                        America is going to flower next and grandly, and perhaps after that Africa,
                        or Australia. Then, say, South America, and we come back to Europe by way of
                        India, China, Japan and through Russia. All in turn and new great things
                        from each again. Let's hope so. A pretty speculation, anyhow.
                    At my suggestion of American supremacy, Sir Scorp, although he protested, no
                        doubt honestly, that he preferred the American to any other foreign race,
                        was on me in a minute with vital criticism and I think some measure of
                        insular solidarity. The English do not love the Americans that is sure. They
                        admire their traits some of them, but they resent their commercial progress.
                        The wretched Americans will not listen to the wise British. They will not
                        adhere to their noble and magnificent traditions. They go and do things
                        quite  out of order and the way in which they
                        should be done, and then they come over to England and flaunt the fact in
                        the noble Britisher's face. This is above all things sad. It is
                        evil, crass, reprehensible, anything you will, and the Englishman resents
                        it. He even resents it when he is an Irish Englishman. He dislikes the
                        German much fears the outcome of a war from that quarter but really he
                        dislikes the American more. I honestly think he considers America far more
                        dangerous than Germany. What are you going to do with that vast realm which
                        is "the states "? It is upsetting the whole world by its
                        nasty progressiveness, and this it should not be permitted to do. England
                        should really lead. England should have invented all the things which the
                        Americans have invented. England should be permitted to dictate to-day and
                        to set the order of forms and procedures, but somehow it is n't
                        doing it. And, hang it all! the Americans are. We
                        progressed through various other things, an American operatic manager who
                        was then in London attempting to revise English opera, an American tobacco
                        company which had made a failure of selling tobacco to the English, but
                        finally weariness claimed us all, and we retired for the night, determined
                        to make Oxford on the morrow if the weather faired in the least.
                    The next morning I arose, glad that we had had such a forceful argument. It
                        was worth while, for it brought us all a little closer together. Barfleur,
                        the children and I ate breakfast together while we were waiting for Scorp to
                        come down and wondering whether we should really go, it was so rainy.
                        Barfleur gave me a book on Oxford, saying that if I was truly interested I
                        should look up beforehand the things that I was to see. Before a pleasant
                        grate fire I studied this volume, but my mind was disturbed by the steadily
                        approaching fact of the trip itself, and I made small progress. Somehow  during the morning the plan that Barfleur had
                        of getting us invited to luncheon by his uncle at Oxford disappeared and it
                        turned out that we were to go the whole distance and back in some five or
                        six hours, having only two or three hours for sightseeing.
                    At eleven Sir Scorp came down and then it was agreed that the rain should
                        make no difference. We would go, anyhow.
                    I think I actually thrilled as we stepped into the car, for somehow the
                        exquisite flavor and sentiment of Oxford was reaching me here. I hoped we
                        would go fast so that I should have an opportunity to see much of it. We did
                        speed swiftly past open fields where hay cocks were standing drearily in the
                        drizzling rain, and down dark aisles of bare but vine-hung trees, and
                        through lovely villages where vines and small oddly placed windows and
                        angles and green-grown, sunk roofs made me gasp for joy. I imagined how they
                        would look in April and May with the sun shining, the birds flying, a soft
                        wind blowing. I think I could smell the odor of roses here in the wind and
                        rain. We tore through them, it seemed to me, and I said once to the driver,
                        "Is there no law against speeding in England?
                    "Yes," he replied, "there is, but you
                        can't pay any attention to that if you want to get
                        anywhere."
                    There were graceful flocks of crows flying here and there. There were the
                        same gray little moss-grown churches with quaint belfries and odd
                        vine-covered windows. There were the same tree-protected borders of fields,
                        some of them most stately where the trees were tall and dark and sad in the
                        rain. I think an open landscape, such as this, with green, wet grass or
                        brown stubble and low, sad, heavy, gray clouds for sky and background, is as
                        delicious as any landscape that ever was. And it was surely not more than
                        one hour and a half after we  left Bridgely
                        before we began to rush through the narrow, winding streets where houses,
                        always brick and stone and red walls with tall gates and vines above them,
                        lined either side of the way. It was old you could see that, even much that
                        could be considered new in England was old according to the American
                        standard. The plan of the city was odd to me because unlike the American
                        cities, praise be! there was no plan. Not an east and west street, anywhere.
                        Not a north and south one. Not a four- or five-story building anywhere,
                        apparently, and no wood; just wet, gray stone and reddish-brown brick and
                        vines. When I saw High Street and the facade of Queens College I leaped for
                        joy. I can think of nothing lovelier in either marble or bronze than this
                        building line. It is so gentle, so persuasive of beautiful thought, such an
                        invitation to reflection and tender romance. It is so obvious that men have
                        worked lovingly over this. It is so plain there has been great care and
                        pains and that life has dealt tenderly with all. It has not been destroyed
                        or revised and revivified, but just allowed to grow old softly and
                        gracefully.
                    Owing to our revised plans for luncheon I had several marmalade sandwiches in
                        my hand, laid in an open white paper which Barfleur had brought and passed
                        around, the idea being that we would not have time for lunch if we wished to
                        complete our visit and get back by dark. Sir Scorp had several meat
                        sandwiches in another piece of paper equally flamboyant. I was eating
                        vigorously, for the ride had made me hungry, the while my eyes searched out
                        the jewel wonders of the delicious prospect before me.
                    "This will never do," observed Sir Scorp, folding up his
                        paper thoughtfully, "invading these sacred precincts in this ribald
                        manner. They 'll think we 're a lot of American sightseers
                        come to despoil the place."
                    
                    "Such being the case," I replied, "we 'll
                        disgrace Barfleur for life. He has relations here. Nothing would give me
                        greater pleasure."
                    "Come, Dreiser. Give me those sandwiches."
                    It was Barfleur, of course.
                    I gave over my feast reluctantly. Then we went up the street, shoulder to
                        shoulder, as it were, Berenice walking with first one and another. I had
                        thought to bring my little book on Oxford and to my delight I could see that
                        it was even much better than the book indicated.
                    How shall one do justice to so exquisite a thing as Oxford, twenty-two
                        colleges and halls, churches, museums and the like, with all their lovely
                        spires, towers, buttresses, ancient walls, ancient doors, pinnacles,
                        gardens, courts, angles and nooks which turn and wind and confront each
                        other and break into broad views and delicious narrow vistas with a grace
                        and an uncertainty which delights and surprises the imagination at every
                        turn. I can think of nothing more exquisite than these wonderful walls, so
                        old that whatever color they were originally, they now are a fine mottled
                        black and gray, with uncertain patches of smoky hue, and places where the
                        stone has crumbled to a dead white. Time has done so much; tradition has
                        done so much; pageantry and memory; the art of the architect, the perfect
                        labor of builder, the beauty of the stone itself, and then nature leaves and
                        trees and the sky! This day of rain and lowery clouds though Sir Scorp
                        insisted it could stand no comparison with sunshine and spring and the
                        pathos of a delicious twilight was yet wonderful to me. Grays and blacks and
                        dreary alterations of storm clouds have a remarkable value when joined with
                        so delicate and gracious a thing as perfectly arranged stone. We wandered
                        through alleys and courts and across the quadrangles of University College,
                        Baliol College, Wadham College, Oriel College, up High Street,  through Park Street, into the Chapel of
                        Queens College, into the banquet of Baliol and again to the Bodleian
                        Library, and thence by strange turns and lovely gateways to an inn for tea.
                        It was raining all the while and I listened to disquisitions by Sir Scorp on
                        the effect of the personalities, and the theories of both Inigo Jones and
                        Christopher Wren, not only on these buildings but on the little residences
                        in the street. Everywhere, Sir Scorp, enthusiast that he is, found something
                        a line of windows done in pure Tudor, a clock tower after the best fashion
                        of Jones, a facade which was Wren pure and simple. He quarreled
                        delightfully, as the artist always will, with the atrocity of this
                        restoration or that failure to combine something after the best manner, but
                        barring the worst errors which showed quite plainly enough in such things as
                        the Oxford art gallery and a modern church or two it was all perfect. Time
                        and tradition have softened, petted, made lovely even the plainest surfaces.
                    I learned from Barfleur where Walter Pater and Oscar. Wilde lived, where
                        Shelley's essay on atheism was burned, and where afterwards a
                        monument was erected to him, where some English bishops were burned for
                        refusing to recant their religious beliefs and where the dukes and princes
                        of the realm were quartered in their college days. Sir Scorp descanted on
                        the pity of the fact, that some, who would have loved a world such as this
                        in their youth, could never afford to come here, while others who were as
                        ignorant as boors and as dull as swine, were for reasons of wealth and
                        family allowed to wallow in a world of art which they could not possibly
                        appreciate. Here as elsewhere I learned that professors were often cads and
                        pedants greedy, jealous, narrow, academic. Here as elsewhere precedence was
                        the great fetish of brain and the silly riot of the average college student
                             was as common as in the meanest school.
                        Life is the same, be art great or little, and the fame of even Oxford cannot
                        gloss over the weakness of a humanity that will alternately be low and high,
                        shabby and gorgeous, narrow and vast.
                    The last thing we saw were some very old portions of Christ College, which
                        had been inhabited by Dominican monks, I believe, in their day, and this
                        thrilled and delighted me quite as much as anything. I forgot all about the
                        rain in trying to recall the type of man and the type of thought that must
                        have passed in and out of those bolt-riven doors, but it was getting time to
                        leave and my companions would have none of my lagging delight.
                    It was blowing rain and as we were leaving Oxford I lost my cap and had to
                        walk back after it. Later I lost my glove! As we rode my mind went back over
                        the ancient chambers, the paneled woodwork, stained glass windows, and high
                        vaulted ceilings I had just seen. The heavy benches and somber portraits in
                        oil sustained themselves in my mind clearly. Oxford, I said to myself, was a
                        jewel architecturally. Another thousand years and it would be as a dream of
                        the imagination. I feel now as if its clay were done; as if so much gentle
                        beauty can not endure. I had seen myself the invasion of the electric switch
                        board and the street car in High Street, and of course other things will
                        come. Already the western world is smiling at a solemnity and a beauty which
                        are noble and lovely to look upon, but which cannot keep pace with a new
                        order and a new need.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVI
                    A CHIRISTMAS CALL
                    
                        THE Christmas holidays were drawing near and Barfleur was
                        making due preparations for the celebration of that event. He was a stickler
                        for the proper observance of those things which have national significance
                        and national or international feeling behind them. Whatever joy he might get
                        out of such things, much or little, I am convinced that he was much more
                        concerned lest some one should fail of an appropriate share of happiness
                        than he was about anything else. I liked that in Barfleur. It touched me
                        greatly, and made me feel at times as though I should like to pat him on the
                        head.
                    During all my youth in Indiana and elsewhere I had been fed on that
                        delightful picture, "Christmas in England," concocted
                        first, I believe (for American consumption, anyhow), by Washington Irving,
                        and from him rehashed for magazines and newspaper purposes until it had come
                        to be romance ad nauseam. The boar's head carried
                        in by the butler of Squire Bracebridge, the ancient peacock pie with the
                        gorgeous tail feathers arranged at one end of the platter and the crested
                        head at the other, the yule log, the mistletoe berries, and the Christmas
                        choristers singing outside of windows and doors of echoing halls, had
                        vaguely stood their ground and as such had rooted themselves in my mind as
                        something connected with ancestral England. I did not exactly anticipate
                        anything of this kind as being a part of present-day England, or of
                        Barfleur's simple country residence, 
                        but, nevertheless, I was in England, and he was making Christmas
                        preparations of one kind or another, and my mind had a perfect right to
                        ramble a little. I think most of all I anticipated another kind of toy from
                        that to which we are accustomed in America.
                    So many things go to make tip that very amiable feast of Christmas when it is
                        successful that I can hardly think now of all that contributed to this one.
                        There was Sir Scorp, of whom by now I had grown very fond, and who was
                        coming here to spend the holidays. There was Gerard Barfleur, a cousin of
                        Barfleur's, a jolly, roystering theatrical manager, who was
                        unquestionably after Barfleur one of the most pleasing figures I met in
                        England, a whimsical, comic-ballad-singing, character-loving soul, who was
                        as great a favorite with women and children as one would want to find. He
                        knew all sorts of ladies, apparently, of high and low degree, rich and poor,
                        beautiful and otherwise, and seemed kindly disposed toward them all. I could
                        write a splendid human-interest sketch of Gerard Barfleur alone. There was
                        Mr. T. McT., a pale, thoughtful person, artistic and poetic to his finger
                        tips, curator of one of the famous museums, a lover of Mr.
                        Housman's "A Shropshire Lad," a lover of ancient
                        glass and silver, whose hair hung in a sweet mop over his high, pale
                        forehead, and whose limpid dark eyes shone with a kindly, artistic light.
                        Then there was Barfleur's aunt and her daughter, mother and sister
                        respectively of the highly joyous Gerard Barfleur, and wife and daughter of
                        a famous litterateur. Then, to cap it all, were the total of
                        Barfleur's very interesting household, housekeeper, governess,
                        maid, cook, gardener, and last, but not least, the four charming, I might
                        almost say adorable, children.
                    There, too, was Barfleur, a host in himself. For weeks beforehand he kept
                        saying on occasion as we wandered  about
                        London together, "No, we can't go there," or,
                        "You must n't accept that, because we have reserved that
                        Saturday and Sunday for Christmas at my place," and so nothing was
                        done which might interfere. Being in his hands I finally consulted him
                        completely as to Christmas presents, and found that I was to be limited to
                        very small gifts, mere tokens of good-will, I being his guest. I did manage
                        to get him a supply of his favorite cigarettes, however, unknown to
                        himself,the ones his clever secretary told me he much preferred,and had them
                        sent out to the house with some favorite books for the remaining members of
                        the household.
                    But the man was in such high spirits over the whole program he had laid out
                        for me winter and spring, the thought of Paris and the Riviera, that he was
                        quite beside himself. More than once he said to me, beaming through his
                        monocle, "We'shall have a delightful time on the continent
                        soon. I 'm looking forward to it, and to your first
                        impressions." Every evening he wanted to take my hastily scribbled
                        notes and read them, and after doing so was anxious to have me do them all
                        just that way, that is, day by day as I experienced them. I found that quite
                        impossible, however. Once he wanted to know if I had any special preference
                        in wines or cordials and I knew very well why he asked. Another time he
                        overheard me make the statement that I had always longed to eat rich,
                        odorous Limburger cheese from Germany.
                    "Done!" he exclaimed. "We shall have it for
                        Christmas."
                    "But, Papa," piped up Berenice maliciously, "we
                        don't all have to have it at the same time, do we?"
                    "No, my dear," replied Barfleur solemnly, with that
                        amazingly patronizing and parental air which always convulsed me, a sort of
                        gay deviltry always lurking behind it.
                    
                    "Only Mr. Dreiser need have it. He is German and likes it."
                    I assumed as German a look as I might, profound, Limburgery.
                    "And I believe you like Mr. Jones's sausage," he
                        observed on another occasion, referring to an American commodity, which he
                        had heard me say in New York that I liked. "We shall have some of
                        those."
                    "Are American sausage like English sausage?" inquired young
                        Charles Gerald interestedly.
                    "Now Heaven only knows," I replied. "I have never
                        eaten English sausages. Ask your father."
                    Barfleur merely smiled. "I think not," he replied.
                    "Christmas is certainly looking up," I said to him
                        badgeringly. "If I cone out of here alive, in condition for Paris
                        and the Riviera, I shall be grateful."
                    He beamed on me reprovingly.
                    Well, finally, to make a long story short, the day came, or, at least, the
                        clay before. We were all assembled for a joyous Christmas Eve T. McT., Sir
                        Scorp, Gerard Barfleur, the dearest aunt and the charming cousin, extremely
                        intelligent and artistic women both, the four children, Barfleur's
                        very clever and appealing secretary, and myself. There was a delightful
                        dinner spread at seven-thirty, when we all assembled to discuss the
                        prospects of the morrow. It was on the program, as I discovered, that I
                        should arise, and accompany Barfleur, his aunt, his cousin, and the children
                        to a nearby abbey church, a lovely affair, I was told, on the bank of the
                        Thames hard by the old English town called Bridgely, while Gerard Barfleur,
                        who positively refused to have anything to do with religion of any kind,
                        quality or description, was to go and reconnoiter a certain neighboring
                        household (of which more anon), and to take young James Herbert (he of the
                        "bavvth ") for a fine and long-anticipated ride on his
                        motor  cycle. Lord Scorp and T. McT. were to
                        remain behind to discuss art, perhaps, or literature, being late risers. If
                        there was to be any Santa Claus, which the children doubted, owing to
                        Barfleur's rather grave asseveration to the contrary (there having
                        been a number of reasons why a severely righteous Santa might see fit to
                        remain away), he was not to make his appearance until rather late in the
                        afternoon. Meanwhile we had all adjourned to the general living-room, where
                        a heavy coal fire blazed on the hearth (for once), and candles were lighted
                        in profusion. The children sang songs of the north, accompanied by their
                        governess. I can see their quaint faces now, gathered about the piano. Lord
                        Scorp, McT. and myself indulged in various artistic discussions and
                        badinage; Mrs. Barfleur, the aunt, told me the brilliant story of her
                        husband's life, a great naturalistic philosopher and novelist, and
                        finally after coffee, sherry, nuts and much music and songs, some comic ones
                        by Gerard Barfleur, we retired for the night.
                    It is necessary, to prepare the reader properly for the morrow, to go back a
                        few days or weeks, possibly, and tell of a sentimental encounter that befell
                        me one day as I was going for a walk in that green world which en-compassed
                        Bridgely Level. It was a most delightful spectacle. Along the yellowish road
                        before me, with its border of green grass and green though leafless trees,
                        there was approaching a most interesting figure of a woman, a chic, dashing
                        bit of femininity, at once (the presumption, owing to various accompanying
                        details was mine) wife, mother, chatelaine, as charming a bit of woman-hood
                        and English family sweetness as I had yet seen in England. English women, by
                        and large, let me state here, are not smart, at least those that I
                        encountered; but here was one dressed after the French fashion in trig,
                        close-fitting blue, outlining her form perfectly, a little  ermine cap of snowy whiteness set jauntily
                        over her ear, her smooth black hair parted demurely over her forehead, a
                        white muff warming her hands, and white spats emphasizing the trim leather
                        of her foot gear. Her eyes were dark brown, her cheeks rosy, her gait smart
                        and tense. I could scarcely believe she was English, the mother of the
                        three-year-old in white and red wool, a little girl, who was sitting astride
                        a white donkey, which, in turn, was led by a trim maid or nurse or governess
                        in somber brown, but it was quite plain that she was. There was such a wise,
                        sober look about all this smartness, such a taut, buttressed conservatism,
                        that I was enchanted. It was such a delightful picture to encounter of a
                        clear December morning that, in the fashion of the English, I exclaimed,
                        "My word! This is something like!"
                    I went back to the house that afternoon determined to make inquiries. Perhaps
                        she was a neighbor, a friend of the family!
                    Of all the individuals who have an appropriate and superior taste for the
                        smart efforts of the fair sex, commend me to Barfleur. His interest and
                        enthusiasm neither flags nor fails. Being a widower of discretion he knows
                        exactly what is smart for a woman as well as a man, and all you have to do
                        to make him prick up his ears attentively is to mention trig beauty as
                        existing in some form, somewhere,not too distant for his adventuring.
                    "What's this?" I can see his eye lighting.
                        "Beauty? A lovely woman? When? Where?"
                    This day, finding Wilkins in the garden trimming some bushes, I had said,
                        "Wilkins, do you know any family hereabouts that keeps a white
                        donkey?"
                    Wilkins paused and scratched his ear reflectively. "No, sir! I
                        cawn't say has I do, sir. I might harsk, sir,  down in the village, hif you 're very hanxious to
                        know."
                    Be it known by all men that I feed Wilkins amply for all services performed,
                        hence his interest.
                    "Never mind for the present, Wilkins," I replied.
                        "I may want to know. If so, I 'll ask you."
                    I knew he would inquire anyhow.
                    That night at dinner, the family being all present, Barfleur in his chair at
                        the head of the table, the wine at his right, I said mildly 
                    "I saw the most beautiful woman to-day I have yet seen in
                        England."
                    Barfleur was just in the act of elevating a glass of champagne to his lips,
                        but he paused to fix me with an inquiring eye.
                    "Where?" he questioned solemnly. "Were you in the
                        city?"
                    "Not at all. I rarely, if ever, see them in the city. It was very
                        near here. A most beautiful woman, very French, trim figure, small feet, a
                        gay air. She had a lovely three-year-old child with her riding a white
                        donkey."
                    "A white donkey? Trim, very French, you say? This is most
                        interesting! I don't recall any one about here who keeps a white
                        donkey. Berenice," he turned to his young daughter. "Do
                        you recall any one here-about who keeps a white donkey?"
                    Berenice, a wizard of the future, merely smiled wisely. "I do not,
                        Papa."
                    "This is very curious, very curious indeed," continued
                        Barfleur, returning to me. "For the life of me, I cannot think of
                        any one who keeps a white donkey. Who can she be? Walking very near here,
                        you say? I shall have a look into this. She may be the holiday guest of some
                        family. But the donkey and child and maid Young, you say? Percy, you
                        don't remember whether  any one
                        hereabout owns a white donkey, any one with a maid and a three-year-old
                        child? "
                    Percy smiled broadly. "No, I don't," he said.
                        Barfleur shook his head in mock perturbation. "It 's very
                        strange," he said. "I don't like the thought of
                        there being any really striking women hereabout of whom I know
                        nothing." He drank his wine.
                    There was no more of this then, but I knew that in all probability the
                        subject would come up again. Barfleur inquired, and Wilkins inquired, and as
                        was natural, the lady was located. She turned out to be the wife of a
                        tennis, golf, and aeroplane expert or champion, a man who held records for
                        fast automobiling and the like, and who was independently settled in the
                        matter of means. Mrs. Barton Churchill was her name as I recall. It also
                        turned out most unfortunately that Barfleur did not know her, and could not
                        place any one who did.
                    "This is all very trying," he said when he discovered this
                        much. "Here you are, a celebrated American author, admiring a very
                        attractive woman whom you meet on the public highway; and here am I, a
                        resident of the neighborhood in which she is living, and I do not even know
                        her. If I did, it would all be very simple. I could take you over, she would
                        be immensely flattered at the nice things you have said about her. She would
                        be grateful to me for bringing you. Presto, we should be fast
                        friends."
                    "Exactly," I replied sourly. "You and she would be
                        fast friends. After I am gone in a few days all will be lovely. I shall not
                        be here to protect my interests. It is always the way. I am the
                        cat's paw, the bait, the trap. I won't stand for it. I saw
                        her first, and she is mine."
                    "My dear fellow," he exclaimed banteringly, "how
                        you go on! I don't understand you at all. This is England.  The lady is married. A little neighborly
                        friendship. Hmm."
                    "Yes, yes," I replied. "I know all about the
                        neighborly friendship. You get me. an introduction to the lady and I shall
                        speak for myself."
                    "As for that matter," he added thoughtfully, "it
                        would not be inappropriate under the circumstances for me to introduce
                        myself in your behalf. She would be pleased, I 'm sure. You are a
                        writer, you admire her. Why should n't she be pleased?"
                    "Curses!" I exclaimed. "Always in the way. Always
                        stepping in just when I fancy I have found something for myself."
                    But nothing was done until Gerard Barfleur arrived a day or two before
                        Christmas. That worthy had traveled all over England with various theatrical
                        companies. Being the son of an eminent literary man he had been received in
                        all circles, and knew comfortable and interesting people in every walk of
                        life apparently, everywhere. Barfleur, who, at times, I think, resented his
                        social sufficiency, was nevertheless prone to call on him on occasion for
                        advice. On this occasion, since Gerard knew this neighborhood almost as well
                        as his cousin, he consulted him as to our lady of the donkey.
                    "Mrs. Churchill? Mrs. Barton Churchill?" I can still see
                        his interested look. "Why, it seems to me that I do know some one
                        of that name. If I am not mistaken I know her husband's brother,
                        Harris Churchill, up in Liverpool. He 's connected with a bank up
                        there. We 've motored all over England together, pretty nearly. I
                        '11 stop in Christmas morning and see if it is n't the
                        same family. The description you give suits the lady I know almost
                        exactly."
                    I was all agog. The picture she had presented was so smart. Barfleur was
                        interested though perhaps dis 
                        
                            Barfleur
                        
                        
                         appointed, too, that Gerard knew her when he
                        did n't.
                    "This is most fortunate," he said to me solemnly.
                        "Now if it should turn out that he does know her, we can call there
                        Christmas day after dinner. Or perhaps he will take you."
                    This came a little regretfully, I think, for Gerard Barfleur accounted
                        himself an equal master with his cousin in the matter of the ladies, and was
                        not to be easily set aside. So Christmas eve it was decided that Gerard
                        should, on the morrow, reconnoiter the Churchill country house early, and
                        report progress, while we went to church. Fancy Barfleur and me marching to
                        church Christmas morning with the children!
                    Christmas in England! The day broke clear and bright, and there we all were.
                        It was not cold, and as is usual, there was little if any wind. I remember
                        looking out of my window down into the valley toward Bridgely, and admiring
                        the green rime upon the trees, the clustered chimneys of a group of
                        farmers' and working-men's cottages, the low sagging roofs
                        of red tile or thatch, and the small window panes that always somehow
                        suggest a homey simplicity that I can scarcely resist. The English milkmaid
                        of fiction, the simple cottages, the ordered hierarchy of farmers are, willy
                        nilly, fixtures in my mind. I cannot get them out.
                    First then, came a breakfast in our best bibs and tuckers, for were we not to
                        depart immediately afterwards to hear an English Christmas service? Imagine
                        Barfleur the pride of Piccadilly, marching solemnly off at the head of his
                        family to an old, gray abbey church. As the French say, "I
                        smile." We all sat around and had our heavy English breakfast,tea,
                        and, to my comfort and delight, "Mr. Jones's
                        sausages." Barfleur had secured a string of them from somewhere.
                    "Think of it," commented Berenice sardonically.  "'Mr. Jones's
                        sausages ' for breakfast. Are n't they comic! Do you like
                        them?"
                    "I most assuredly do."
                    "And do you eat them every day in A-my-reeka? "queried
                        Charles Gerard with a touch of latent jesting in his voice.
                    "When I can afford them, yes."
                    "They 're quite small, are n't they?
                        "commented five-year-old James Herbert.
                    "Precisely," I replied, unabashed by this fire of inquiry.
                        "That's their charm."
                    The church that we visited was one of those semi-ancient abbey affairs, done
                        in good English Gothic, with a touch of Tudor here and there, and was
                        located outside the village of Bridgely Level two or three miles from
                        Barfleur's home. I recall with simple pleasure the smug,
                        self-righteous, Sunday-go-to-meeting air with which we all set forth,
                        crossing homey fields via diagonal paths, passing through stiles and along
                        streams and country roads, by demure little cottages that left one
                        breathless with delight. I wish truly that England could be put under glass
                        and retained as a perfect specimen of unconscious, rural poetry the south of
                        England. The pots and pans outside the kitchen doorways! The simple stoop,
                        ornamented with clambering vines! The reddish-green sagging roofs with their
                        clustered cylindrical chimneypots! When we came to the top of a hill we
                        could see the church in the valley below, nestling beside one bank of the
                        Thames which wound here and there in delightful S's. A square
                        tower, as I recall, rose quaintly out of a surrounding square of trees,
                        grass, grave-stones and box-hedge.
                    There was much ado in this semi-ancient place as we came up, for Christmas
                        day, of all days, naturally drew forth a history-loving English audience.
                        Choir boys  were scurrying here and there,
                        some ladies of solemn demeanor, who looked as if they might be assisting at
                        the service in some way or another, were dawdling about, and I even saw the
                        rector in full canonicals hastening up a gravel path toward a side door, as
                        though matters needed to be expedited considerably. The interior was dark,
                        heavy-beamed, and by no means richly ornamented with stained glass, but
                        redolent of by-gone generations at that. The walls were studded with those
                        customary slabs and memorial carvings with which the English love to
                        ornament their church interiors. A fair-sized, and yet for so large an
                        edifice, meager audience was present, an evidence it seemed to me, of the
                        validity of the protest against state support for the Established Church.
                        There was a great storm of protest in England at this time against the
                        further state support of an institution that was not answering the religious
                        needs of the people, and there had been some discussion of the matter at
                        Barfleur's house. As was natural, the artistically inclined were in
                        favor of anything which would sustain, unimpaired, whether they had
                        religious value or not, all the old cathedrals, abbeys, and neighborhood
                        churches, solely because of their poetic appearance. On the other hand an
                        immense class, derisively spoken of as "chapel people,"
                        were heartily in favor of the ruder disposition of the matter. Barfleur in
                        his best Piccadilly clothing was for their maintenance.
                    To be frank, as charming as was this semi-ancient atmosphere, and possibly
                        suited to the current English neighborhood mood (I could not say as to
                        that), it did not appeal to me as strongly on this occasion as did many a
                        similar service in American churches of the same size. The vestments were
                        pleasing as high church vestments go; the choir, made of boys and men from
                        the surrounding countryside no doubt, was not 
                        absolutely villainous but it could have been much better. To tell the truth,
                        it seemed to me that I was witnessing the last and rather threadbare
                        evidences of an older and. much more prosperous order of things. Beautiful
                        in its way? Yes. Quaint? Yes. But smacking more of poverty and an ordered
                        system continued past its day than anything else. I felt a little sorry for
                        the old church and the thin rector and the goodly citizens, albeit a little
                        provincial, who clung so fatuously to a time-worn form. They have their
                        place, no doubt, and it makes that sweet, old lavender atmosphere which
                        seems to hover over so much that one encounters in England. Nevertheless
                        life does move on, and we must say good-bye to many a once delightful thing.
                        Why not set these old churches aside as museums or art galleries, or for any
                        other public use, as they do with many of them in Italy, and let the matter
                        go at that? It is not necessary that a service be kept up in them day by day
                        and year by year. Services on special or state occasions would be
                        sufficient. Let by-gones be by-gones, and let the people tax themselves for
                        things they really do want, skating-rinks, perhaps, and moving pictures.
                        They seemed to flourish even in these elderly and more sedate neighborhoods.
                    Outside in the graveyard, after the services were over and we were idling
                        about a few moments, I found a number of touches of that valiant simplicity
                        in ability which is such a splendid characteristic of the English. Although
                        there were many graves here of the nobility and gentry, dating from as far
                        back as the sixteenth century, there was no least indication so far as I
                        could see, of ostentation, but everywhere simple headstones recording names
                        only, and not virtues, sometimes, perhaps, a stately verse or a stoic line.
                        I noticed with a kind of English-speaking pride the narrow new-made grave of
                             Sir Robert Hart, the late great English
                        financial administrator of China, who, recently deceased, had been brought
                        over sea to this simple churchyard, to lie here with other members of his
                        family in what I assumed to be the neighborhood of his youth and nativity.
                        It is rather fine, I think, when a nation's sons go forth over the
                        world to render honorable service, each after his capacity, and then come
                        back in death to an ancient and beloved soil. The very obscurity of this
                        little grave with its two-feet, six-inch headstone and flowerless mound
                        spoke more to me of the dignity and ability that is in true greatness of
                        soul than a soaring shaft might otherwise do.
                    On the way home I remember we discussed Christian Science and its
                        metaphysical merit in a world where all creeds and all doctrines blow,
                        apparently, so aimlessly about. Like all sojourners in this fitful fever of
                        existence Mrs. Barfleur and her daughter and her son, the cheerful Gerard
                        were not without their troubles; so much so that, intelligent woman that she
                        was, and quite aware of the subtleties and uncertainties of religious dogma,
                        she was eager to find something upon which she could lean, spiritually
                        speaking, the strong arm, let us say, of an All Mighty, no less, who would
                        perchance heal her of her griefs and ills. I take it, as I look at life,
                        that only the very able intellectually, or the very rock-ribbed and dull
                        materially can front the storms and disasters that beset us, or the ultimate
                        dark which only the gifted, the imaginative, see, without quakes and fears.
                        So often have I noticed this to be true, that those who stand up brave and
                        strong in their youth turn a nervous and anguished eye upon this troubled
                        seeming in later years. They have no longer any heart for a battle that is
                        only rhyme and no reason, and, whether they can conceive why or not, they
                        must have a god. I, for one, would be the last person in the world to deny
                        that everywhere  where I find boundless
                        evidence of an intelligence or intelligences far superior to my own. I, for
                        one, am inclined to agree with the poet that "if my barque sink,
                        'tis to another sea." In fact I have always innately
                        presumed the existence of a force or forces that, possibly ordered in some
                        noble way, maintain a mathematical, chemical, and mechanical parity and
                        order in visible things. I have always felt, in spite of all my carpings,
                        that somehow in a large way there is a rude justice done under the sun, and
                        that a balance for, I will not say right, but for happiness is maintained.
                        The world has long since gathered to itself a vast basket of names such as
                        Right, Justice, Mercy, and Truth. My thinking has nothing to do with these.
                        I do not believe that we can conceive what the ultimate significance of
                        anything is, therefore why label it? I have seen good come to the seemingly
                        evil and evil come to the seemingly good. But if a religion will do anybody
                        any good, for Heaven's sake, let him have it! To me it is a case of
                        individual, sometimes of race weakness. A stronger mind could not attempt to
                        define what may not be defined, nor to lean upon what, to infinite mind must
                        be utterly insubstantial and thin air. Obviously there is a vast sea of
                        force. Is it good? Is it evil? Give that to the philosophers to fight over,
                        and to the fearful and timid give a religion. "A mighty fortress is
                        our God," sang Luther. He may be, I do not know.
                    But to return to Mrs. Barfleur and her daughter and Barfleur's
                        children and Barfleur ambling across the sunny English landscape this
                        Christmas morning. It was a fine thing to see the green patina of the trees,
                        and richer green grass growing lush and thick all winter long, and to see
                        the roofs of little towns like Bridgely Level, for we were walking on high
                        ground, and the silvery windings of the Thames in the valley below, whence
                        we had  just come. I think. I established the
                        metaphysical basis of life quite ably, for myself, and urged Mrs. Barfleur
                        to take up Christian Science. I assailed the wisdom of maintaining by state
                        funds the Established Church largely, I think, to irritate Barfleur, and
                        protested that the chapel people had a great deal of wisdom on their side.
                        As we drew near Bridgely Level and Barfleur's country place it
                        occurred to me that Gerard Barfleur had gone to find out if he really knew
                        the lady of the donkey, and I was all anxiety to find out. Barfleur himself
                        was perking up considerably, and it was agreed that first we would have an
                        early afternoon feast, all the Christmas dainties of the day, and then, if
                        Gerard really knew the lady, we were to visit her and then return to the
                        house, where, I now learned, there was to be a Santa Claus. He was to arrive
                        via the courtesy of Gerard Barfleur who was to impersonate him, and on that
                        account, Barfleur announced, we might have to cut any impending visit to our
                        lady short in order not to disappoint the children, but visit we would.
                        Knowing Gerard Barfleur to be a good actor and intensely fond of children,
                        Barfleur's especially, I anticipated some pleasure here. But I will
                        be honest, the great event of the day was our lady of the donkey, her white
                        furs, and whether she was really as striking as I had imagined. I was afraid
                        Gerard would return to report that either, (A) he did not know her, or (B)
                        that she was not so fascinating as I thought. In either case my anticipated
                        pleasure would come to the ground with a crash. We entered, shall I say,
                        with beating hearts.
                    Gerard had returned. With Sir Scorp and T. McT. he was now toasting his
                        English legs in front of the fire, and discoursing upon some vanity of the
                        day. At sight of the children he began his customary badinage but I would
                        have none of it. Barfleur fixed him with  a
                        monitory eye. "Well," he said, putting the burden of the
                        inquiry on me. "Our friend here has been quite restless during the
                        services this morning. What did you find out? "
                    "Yes," chimed in Mrs. Barfleur who had been informed as to
                        this romantic encounter, "for goodness' sake tell us. We
                        are all dying to know."
                    "Yes, tell them," sarcastically interpolated Lord Scorp.
                        "There will be no peace, believe me, until you do."
                    "To be sure, to be sure," cheerfully exclaimed Gerard,
                        straightening up from jouncing James Herbert. "I know her well. Her
                        sister and her husband are here with her. That little baby is hers, of
                        course. They live just over the hill here. I admire your taste. She is one
                        of the smartest women I know. I told her that you were stopping here and she
                        wants you to come over and see the Christmas tree lighted. We are all
                        invited after dinner."
                    "Very good," observed Barfleur, rubbing his hands.
                        "Now that is settled."
                    "Is n't she charming," observed Mrs. G. A.
                        Barfleur, "to be so politely disposed? "
                    Thereafter the dinner could not come too soon, and by two-thirty we were
                        ready to depart, having consumed Heaven knows how many kinds of wines and
                        meats, English plum-pudding, and especially for me real German Limburger. It
                        was a splendid dinner.
                    Shall I stop to describe it? I cannot say, outside of the interesting English
                        company, that it was any better or any worse than many another Christmas
                        feast in which I have participated. Imagine the English dining-room, the
                        English maid, the housekeeper in watchful attendance on the children, the
                        maid, like a bit of Dresden china, on guard over the service, Barfleur,
                        monocle in  eye, sitting solemnly in state at
                        the head of the board, Lord Scorp, T. McT., Gerard Barfleur, his mother, her
                        daughter, myself, the children all chattering and gobbling. The
                        high-sounding English voices, the balanced English phrases, the quaint
                        English scene through the windows, it all comes back, a bit of sweet color.
                        Was I happy? Very. Did I enjoy myself? Quite. But as to this other matter.
                    It was a splendid afternoon. On the way over, Barfleur and myself, the others
                        refusing contemptuously to have anything to do with this sentimental affair,
                        had the full story of our lady of the donkey and her sister and the two
                        brothers that they married.
                    We turned eventually into one of those charming lawns enclosed by a high,
                        concealing English fence, and up a graveled automobile path to a snow-white
                        Georgian door. We were admitted to a hall that at once bore out the
                        testimony as to the athletic prowess of the husbands twain. There were guns,
                        knives, golf-sticks, tennis rackets, automobile togs and swords. I think
                        there were deer and fox heads in the bargain. By a ruddy, sportsmanlike man
                        of perhaps thirty-eight, and all of six feet tall, who now appeared, we were
                        invited to enter, make ourselves at home, drink what we would, whiskey,
                        sherry, ale a suitable list. We declined the drink, putting up fur coats and
                        sticks and were immediately asked into the billiard room where the Christmas
                        tree and other festivities were holding,or about to be. Here, at last there
                        were my lady of the donkey and the child and the maid and my lady's
                        sister and alas, my lady's husband, full six feet tall and vigorous
                        and, of all tragic things, fingering a forty-caliber, sixteen-shot magazine
                        pistol which his beloved brother of sporting proclivities had given him as a
                        Christmas present! I eyed it as one might a special dispensation of
                        Providence.
                    
                    But our lady of the donkey? A very charming woman she proved, intelligent,
                        smiling, very chic, quite aware of all the nice things that had been said
                        about her, very clever in making light of it for propriety's sake,
                        unwilling to have anything made of it for the present for her
                        husband's sake. But that Anglicized French air! And that romantic
                        smile!
                    We talked of what do people talk on such occasions? Gerard was full of the
                        gayest references to the fact that Barfleur had such interesting neighbors
                        as the Churchills and did not know it, and that they had once motored to
                        Blackpool together. I shall not forget either how artfully Barfleur conveyed
                        to Mrs. Barton Churchill, our lady of the donkey, that I had been intensely
                        taken with her looks while at the same time presenting himself in the best
                        possible light. Barfleur is always at his best on such occasions,
                        Chesterfieldian, and with an air that says, "A mere protegee of
                        mine. Do not forget the managerial skill that is making this interesting
                        encounter possible." But Mrs. Churchill, as I could see, was not
                        utterly unmindful of the fact that I was the one that had been heralded to
                        her as a writer, and that I had made the great fuss and said all the nice
                        things about her after a single encounter on a country road which had
                        brought about this afternoon visit. She was gracious, and ordered the
                        Christmas tree lighted and had the young heir's most interesting
                        toys spread out on the billiard table. I remember picking up a linen story
                        book, labeled Loughlin Bros., New York.
                    "From America," I said, quite unwisely I think.
                    "Oh, yes, you Americans," she replied, eyeing me archly.
                        "Everything comes from America these days, even our toys. But
                        it's rather ungracious to make us admit it, don't you
                        think? "
                    I picked up a train of cars, and, to my astonishment,  found it stamped with the name of a Connecticut firm. I
                        hesitated to say more, for I knew that I was on dangerous ground, but after
                        that I looked at every book or box of blocks and the like, to find that my
                        suspicions were well founded. England gets many of its Christmas toys from
                        America.
                    Nothing came of this episode except a pleasant introduction for Barfleur, who
                        had all the future before him. I was leaving for Manchester after the new
                        year, and for Paris a week or two later. It was all in vain as I foresaw,
                        that I was invited to call again, or that she hoped to see something of me
                        among her friends in London. I think I said as much to Barfleur with many
                        unkind remarks about the type of mind that manages to secure all merely by a
                        process of waiting. Meantime he walked bravely forward, his overcoat snugly
                        buttoned, his cane executing an idle circle, his monocle on straight, his
                        nose in the air. I could have made away with him for much less.
                    The last of this very gallant day came in the home of Barfleur himself. As we
                        neared the house we decided to hurry forward and to say that Gerard had
                        remained at the Churchill's for dinner, while he made a wide
                        detour, ending up, I think, in some chamber in the coach house. I did not
                        see him again until much later in the evening, but meantime the children,
                        the relatives, the friends and the family servants were all gathered in the
                        nursery on the second floor. There was much palaver and badinage concerning
                        the fact that Santa Claus had really had such bad reports that he had found
                        it much against his will to come here, early at least. There were some
                        rather encouraging things that had been reported to him later, However, and
                        he had, so some one had heard, changed his mind. Whether there would be
                        little or much for such a collection of ne'er-do-wells was open to
                        question.  However if we were all very quiet
                        for a while we should see. I can see Barfleur now in his gala attire,
                        stalking nobly about, and the four little Barfleurs surveying rather
                        incredulously but expectantly the maid, the nurse, the governess, and their
                        father. I wondered what had become of my small mementos and whether my
                        special cigarettes for Barfleur were in safety in Santa Claus's
                        pack. It was small stock, I fear me much, that these well-behaved little
                        English children took in this make-believe, but presently there was a loud
                        hammering at the nursery door, and without a "By your
                        leave," the same was opened and a vigorous, woolly-headed Santa
                        Claus put his rosy face into the chamber.
                    "Is there any one living here by the name of Percy Franklin
                        Barfleur, or Berenice Barfleur, or James Herbert Barfleur? "I shall
                        not repeat all the names he called in a high falsetto voice,
                        "I've been a long way to-day and I 've had a
                        great deal to do, and I have n't had the least assistance from
                        anybody. They 're so busy having a good time themselves."
                    I never saw a redder nose, or more shaggy eye-browed eyes, or a gayer twinkle
                        in them. And the pack that he carried was simply enormous. It could barely
                        be squeezed through the door. As he made his way to the center of the room
                        he looked quizzically about, groaning and squeaking in his funny voice, and
                        wanting to know if the man in the monocle were really Barfleur, and whether
                        the fat lady in the corner were really a nurse, or merely an interloper, and
                        if the four children that had been reported to him as present were surely
                        there. Having satisfied himself on various counts, and evoked a great deal
                        of innocent laughter, to say nothing of awe as to his next probable comment,
                        he finally untied the enormous bag and began to consult the labels.
                    "Here 's a package marked 'Charles Gerard
                        Barfleur.'  It's rather
                        large. It's been very heavy to carry all this distance. Can anybody
                        tell me whether he's been a reasonably good child? It's
                        very hard to go to all this trouble, if children are n't really
                        deserving." Then, as he came forward, he added, "He has a
                        very impish look in his eye, but I suppose I ought to let him have
                        it." And so the gift was handed over.
                    One by one the presents came forth, commented on in this fashion, only the
                        comments varied with the age and the personality of the recipient. There was
                        no lack of humor or intimacy of application, for this Santa Claus apparently
                        knew whereof he spoke.
                    "Is there a writer in the room by the name of Theodore
                        Dreiser?" he remarked at one time
                        sardonically."I've heard of him faintly and he is
                        n't a very good writer, but I suppose he 's entitled to a
                        slight remembrance. I hope you reform, Mr. Dreiser," he remarked
                        very wisely, as he drew near me. "It's very plain to me
                        that a little improvement could be effected."
                    I acknowledged the wisdom of the comment.
                    When my cigarettes were handed to Barfleur, Santa Claus tapped them
                        sapiently. "More wretched cigarettes!" he remarked in his
                        high falsetto. "I know them well! If it isn't one vice
                        that has to be pampered, it's another. I would have brought him pt
                        de foies gras or wine, if I did n't think this was less harmful. He
                        's very fond of prawns too, but they 're very expensive at
                        this time of the year. A little economy would n't hurt
                        him." Dora, the maid, and Mrs. A., the nurse, and Miss C., the
                        governess, came in for really brilliant compliments. Lord Scorp was told
                        that an old English castle or a Rembrandt would be most suitable, but that
                        Santa was all out at present, and if he would just be a little more cheerful
                        in the future he might manage to get him one. T. McT. was given books, as
                        very fitting, and in a trice the place  was
                        literally littered with wonders. There were immense baskets and boxes of
                        candied fruit from Holland; toys, books and fruit from Barfleur's
                        mother in Rome; more toys and useful presents from ladies in London and the
                        north of England and France and the Isle of Wight,a goodly company of
                        mementos. It's something to be an attractive widower! I never saw
                        children more handsomely or bountifully provided for a new saddle, bridle
                        and whip for Berenice's riding pony, curious puzzles, German
                        mechanical toys from Berlin, and certain ornamental articles of dress
                        seemed, by the astonishing bursts of excitement they provoked, exceedingly
                        welcome. Santa now drew off his whiskers and cap to reveal himself as Gerard
                        Barfleur, and we all literally got down on the floor to play with the
                        children. You can imagine, with each particular present to examine, how much
                        there was to do. Tea-time came and went unnoticed, a stated occasion in
                        England. Supper, a meal not offered except on Christmas, was spread about
                        eight o'clock. About nine an automobile took Lord Scorp and T. McT.
                        away, and after that we all returned to the nursery until about ten-thirty
                        when even by the most liberal interpretation of holiday license it was
                        bedtime. We soberer elders (I hope no one sets up a loud guffaw) adjourned
                        to the drawing-room for nuts and wine, and finally, as the beloved Pepys was
                        accustomed to remark, "So to bed."
                    But what with the abbey church, the discourse on Christian Science, our lady
                        of the donkey, a very full stomach and a phantasmagoria of toys spinning
                        before my eyes, I went to bed thinking of,well now, what do you suppose I
                        went to bed thinking of?
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVII
                    SMOKY ENGLAND
                    
                        FOR years before going to England I had been interested in
                        the north of England the land, as I was accustomed to think, of the under
                        dog. England, if one could trust one's impression from a distance,
                        was a land of great social contrasts the ultimate high and the ultimate low
                        of poverty and wealth. In the north, as I understand it, were all of the
                        great manufacturing centers Sheffield, Leeds, Nottingham, Birmingham,
                        Liverpool, Manchester a whole welter of smoky cities whence issue tons upon
                        tons of pottery, linen, cotton, cutlery. While I was at Bridgely Level I
                        spoke of my interest in this region to Barfleur, who merely lifted his
                        eyebrows. He knew little or nothing about that northern world. The south of
                        England encompassed his interest. However, Barfleur's cousin, the
                        agreeable Gerard Barfleur, told me soulfully that the north of England must
                        be like America, because it was so brisk, direct, practical, and that he
                        loved it. (He was a confirmed American "rooter" or
                        "booster," we would say over here, and was constantly
                        talking about coming to this country to enter the theatrical business.)
                    I journeyed northward the last day of the old year to Manchester and its
                        environs, which I had chosen as affording the best picture of manufacturing
                        life. I had been directed to a certain hotel, recommended as the best
                        equipped in the country. I think I never saw so large a hotel. It sprawled
                        over a very large block in a heavy, impressive, smoky-stone way. It had, as
                        I quickly discovered, an excellent Turkish and Russian bath  in connection with it and five separate
                        restaurants, German, French, English, etc., and an American bar. The most
                        important travel life of Manchester centered here that was obvious. I was
                        told that buyers and sellers from all parts of the world congregated in this
                        particular caravanserai. It was New Year's day and the streets were
                        comparatively empty, but the large, showy, heavily furnished breakfast-room
                        was fairly well sprinkled with men whom I took to be cotton operatives.
                        There was a great mill strike on at this time and here were gathered for
                        conference representatives of all the principal interests involved. I was
                        glad to see this, for I had always wondered what type of man it was that
                        conducted the great manufacturing interests in England particularly this one
                        of cotton. The struggle was over the matter of the recognition of the unions
                        and a slight raise in the wage-scale. These men were very much like a
                        similar collection of wealthy manufacturers in the United States. Great
                        industries seem to breed a certain type of mind and body. You can draw a
                        mental picture of a certain keen, dressy, phlegmatic individual, not tall,
                        not small, round, solid, ruddy and have them all. These men were so
                        comfortably solid, physically. They looked so content with themselves and
                        the world, so firm and sure. Nearly all of them were between forty-five and
                        sixty, cold, hard, quick-minded, alert. They differed radically from the
                        typical Englishman of the South. It struck me at once that if England were
                        to be kept commercially dominant it would be this type of man, not that of
                        the South, who would keep it so.
                    And now I could understand from looking at these men why it was that the
                        north of England was supposed to hate the south of England, and vice versa.
                        I had sat at a dinner-table in Portland Place one evening and heard the
                        question of the sectional feeling discussed. 
                        Why does it exist? was the question before the guests. Well, the south of
                        England is intellectual, academic, historic, highly socialized. It is rich
                        in military, governmental, ambassadorial and titled life. The very scenery
                        is far more lovely. The culture of the people, because of the more generally
                        distributed wealth, is so much better. In the north of England the poor are
                        very poor and contentious. The men of wealth are not historically wealthy or
                        titled. In many cases they are "hard greedy upstarts like the
                        irrepressible Americans," one speaker remarked. They have no real
                        culture or refinement. They manage to buy their way in from time to time, it
                        is true, but that does not really count. They are essentially raw and
                        brutal. Looking at these men breakfasting quietly, I could understand it
                        exactly. Their hard, direct efficiency would but poorly adjust itself to the
                        soft speculative intellectuality of the south. Yet we know that types go
                        hand in hand in any country with a claim to greatness.
                    After my breakfast I struck out to see what I could see of the city. I also
                        took a car to Salford, and another train to Stockport in order to gather as
                        quick a picture of the Manchester neighborhood as I could. What I saw was
                        commonplace enough. All of the larger cities of present-day Europe are
                        virtually of modern construction. Most of them have grown to their present
                        great population in the last fifty years. Hence they have been virtually
                        built not rebuilt in that time.
                    Salford, a part of Manchester, was nothing great cotton and machine works and
                        warehouses. Stockport was not anything either, save long lines of brick
                        cottages one and two stories high and mills, mills, mills, mills. It always
                        astounds me how life repeats itself any idea in life such as a design for a
                        house over and over and over. These houses in Salford, Stockport and
                        Manchester  proper were such as you might see
                        anywhere in Chicago, St. Louis, Cincinnati, Baltimore in the cheap streets.
                        I had the sense of being pursued by a deadly commonplace. It all looked as
                        people do when they think very little, know very little, see very little, do
                        very little. I expected to learn that the churches flourished here very
                        greatly and that there was an enormous Sunday school somewhere about. There
                        was at Stock-port the largest in the world I was told, five thousand
                        students attending. The thing that impressed me most was the presence of the
                        wooden clog or shoe.
                    In Stockport there was a drab silence hanging over everything the pathetic
                        dullness of the laborer when he has nothing to do save the one thing he
                        cannot do think. As it was a Sunday the streets were largely empty and
                        silent a dreary, narrow-minded, probably religious, conventional world which
                        accepts this blank drabness as natural, ordered, probably even necessary. To
                        the west and the south and the east and the north are great worlds of
                        strangeness and wonder new lands, new people but these folks can neither see
                        nor hear. Here they are harnessed to cotton-mills, believing no doubt that
                        God intended it to be so, working from youth to age without ever an inkling
                        of the fascinating ramifications of life. It appalled me.
                    In some respects I think I never saw so dreary a world as manufacturing
                        England. In saying this I do not wish to indicate that the working
                        conditions are any worse than those which prevail in various American
                        cities, such as Pittsburgh, and especially the minor cities like Lawrence
                        and Fall River. But here was a dark workaday world, quite unfavored by
                        climate, a country in which damp and fogs prevail for fully three-fourths of
                        the year, and where a pall of smoke is always present. I remember reading a
                        sign on one of the railway platforms  which
                        stated that owing to the prevalence of fogs the company could not be held
                        responsible for the running of trains on time. I noticed too, that the smoke
                        and damp were so thick everywhere that occasionally the trees on the
                        roadside or the houses over the way would disappear in a lovely, Corot-like
                        mist. Lamps were burning in all stores and office-buildings. Street cars
                        carried head-lamps and dawned upon you out of a hazy gloom. Traffic
                        disappeared in a thick blanket a half block away.
                    Most of these outlying towns had populations ranging from ninety to a hundred
                        thousand, but in so far as interesting or entertaining developments of civic
                        life were concerned proportioned to their size there were none. They might
                        as well have been villages of five hundred or one thousand. Houses, houses,
                        houses, all of the same size, all the same color, all the same interior
                        arrangement, virtually.
                    Everywhere in Middleton, Oldham, and Rochdale, which I visited the first day,
                        and in Boulton, Blackburn, and Wigan, which I visited the next I found this
                        curious multiplication of the same thing which you would dismiss with a
                        glance whole streets, areas, neighborhoods of which you could say,
                        "all alike."
                    In Middleton I was impressed with the constant repetition of "front
                        rooms" or "parlors." You could look in through
                        scores of partly open doors (this climate is damp but not cold) and see in
                        each a chest of drawers exactly like every other chest in the town and in
                        the same position relative to the door. Nearly all the round tables which
                        these front rooms contained were covered with pink, patterned, cotton
                        tablecloths. The small single windows, one to each house, contained blue or
                        yellow jardinires set on small tables and containing geraniums. The
                        fireplace, always to the right of the  room as
                        you looked in the window, glowed with a small coal fire. There were no other
                        ornaments that I saw. The ceilings of the rooms were exceedingly low and the
                        total effect was one of clean, frugal living.
                    The great mills bore pleasing names, such as Rob Roy, Tabitha, Marietta, and
                        their towering stacks looked down upon the humbler habitations at their base
                        much as the famous castles of the feudal barons must have looked down upon
                        the huts of their serfs. I was constrained to think of the workaday
                        existence that all this suggested, the long lines of cotton-mill employees
                        going in at seven o'clock in the morning, in the dark, and coming
                        out at six o'clock at night, in the dark. Many of these mills
                        employ a day and a night shift. Their windows, when agleam in the smoke or
                        rain, are like patins of fine gold. I saw them gleaming at the end of dull
                        streets or across the smooth, olive-colored surfaces of mill ponds or
                        through the mist and rain. The few that were running (the majority of them
                        were shut down because of the strike) had a roar like that of Niagara
                        tumbling over its rocks a rich, ominous thunder. In recent years the
                        mill-owners have abandoned the old low, two-story type of building with its
                        narrow windows and dingy aspect of gray stone, and erected in its stead
                        these enormous structures the only approach to the American sky-scraper I
                        saw in England. They are magnificent mills, far superior to those you will
                        see to-day in this country, clean, bright and every one I saw new. If I
                        should rely upon my merely casual impression, I should say that there were a
                        thousand such within twenty-five miles of Manchester. When seen across a
                        foreground of low cottages, such as I have described, they have all the
                        dignity of cathedrals vast temples of labor. I was told by the American
                        Consul-General at London that they are equipped with the very  latest cotton-spinning machinery and are now
                        in a position to hold their own on equal terms with American competition, if
                        not utterly to defy it. The intricacy and efficiency of the machinery is
                        greater than that employed in our mills. I could not help thinking what a
                        far cry it was from these humble cottages, some few of which in odd corners
                        looked like the simple, thatched huts sacred to Burns and "The
                        Cotter's Saturday Night," to these lordly mills and the
                        lordly owners behind them the strong, able, ruthless men whom I saw eating
                        in the breakfast-room at the Midland the day before. Think of the poor
                        little girls and boys, principally girls, clattering to and from work in
                        their wooden shoes and, if you will believe it (I saw it at Boulton on a
                        cold, rainy, January day), in thin black shawls and white straw hats, much
                        darkened by continuous wear. One crowd that I observed was pouring out at
                        high noon. I heard a whistle yelling its information, and then a mouse-hole
                        of a door in one corner of the great structure opened, and released the
                        black stream of mill-workers. By comparison, it looked like a small
                        procession of ants or a trickle of black water. Small as it was, however, it
                        soon filled the street. The air was wet, smoky, gray, the windows even at
                        this midday hour gleaming here and there with lights. The factory hands were
                        a dreary mass in the rain, some of them carrying umbrellas, many without
                        them, all the women wearing straw hats and black shawls!
                    I looked at their faces pale, waxy, dull, inefficient. I looked at their
                        shapeless skirts hanging like bags about their feet. I looked at their flat
                        chests, their graceless hands, and then I thought of the strong men who know
                        how to use I hesitate to say exploit inefficiency. What would these women do
                        if they could not work in the mills? One thing I am sure of: the  mills, whatever charges may be brought
                        against their owners in regard to hours, insufficiency of payment,
                        indifference of treatment, are nevertheless better places in which to spend
                        one's working hours than the cottages with their commonplace round
                        of duties. What can one learn washing dishes and scrubbing floors in a
                        cottage? I can see some one jumping up to exclaim: "What can one
                        learn tying commonplace threads in a cotton mill, taking care of eight or
                        nine machines one lone woman? What has she time to learn?" This if
                        you ask me; the single thought of organization, if nothing more. The thought
                        that there is such a thing as a great machine which can do the work of fifty
                        or a hundred men. It will not do to say the average individual can learn
                        this method working in a home. It is not true. What the race needs is ideas.
                        It needs thoughts of life and injustice and justice and opportunity or the
                        lack of it kicked into its senseless clay. It needs to be made to think by
                        some rough process or other (gentleness won't do it), and this is
                        one way. I like labor-leaders. I like big, raw, crude, hungry men who are
                        eager for gain for self-glorification. I like to see them plotting to force
                        such men as I saw breakfasting at the Midland to give them something and the
                        people beneath them. I am glad to think that the clay whose womankind wears
                        black shawls and straw hats in January has sense enough at last to appoint
                        these raw, angry fellows, who scheme and struggle and fight and show their
                        teeth and call great bitter strikes, such as I saw here, and such as had
                        shut tight so many of these huge solemn mills. It speaks much for the race.
                        It speaks much for thinking, which is becoming more and
                        more common. If this goes on, there won't be so many women with
                        drabbly skirts and flat chests. There will still be strong men and weak, but
                        the conditions may not be so severe. Anyhow let us  hope so, for it is an optimistic thought and it cheers one in
                        the face of all the drab streets and the drab people. I have no hope of
                        making millionaires of everybody, nor of establishing that futile
                        abstraction, justice; but I do cherish the idea of seeing the world growing
                        better and more interesting for everybody. And the ills which make for
                        thinking are the only things which will bring this about.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVIII
                    SMOKY ENGLAND (continued)
                    
                    
                        AT Middleton the mills are majestically large and the
                        cottages relatively minute. There is a famous old inn here, very picturesque
                        to look upon, and Somebody of Something's comfortable manor, but
                        they were not the point for me. In one of its old streets, in the dark
                        doorway of an old house, I encountered an old woman, very heavy, very pale,
                        very weary, who stood leaning against the door post.
                    "What do you burn here, gas or oil?" I asked, interested to
                        obtain information on almost any topic and seeking a pretext for talking to
                        her.
                    "Hey?" she replied, looking at me wearily, but making no
                        other move.
                    "What do you burn?" I asked. "What do you use for
                        light, gas or oil?"
                    "Ile," she replied heavily. "You 'll have
                        to talk very loud. I 'm gettin' old and I 'm
                        goin' to die pretty soon."
                    "Oh, no," I said, "you 're not old enough
                        for that. You 're going to live a long time yet."
                    "Hey?" she asked.
                    I repeated what I had said.
                    "No," she mumbled, and now I saw she had no teeth.
                        "I 'm gettin' old. I 'm eighty-two and I
                        'm goin' to die. I been workin' in the mills all
                        my life."
                    "Have you ever been out of Middleton?" I asked.
                    "Hey?" she replied.
                    I repeated.
                    "Yes, to Manchester, Saturdays. Not of late, though.  Not in years and years. I 'm very
                        sick, though, now. I 'm goin' to die."
                    I could see from her look that what she said was true. Only her exceeding
                        weariness employed her mind. I learned that water came from a hydrant in the
                        yard, that the kitchen floor was of earth. Then I left, noticing as I went
                        that she wore wooden-soled shoes.
                    In the public square at Boulton, gathered about the city-hall, where one
                        would suppose for the sake of civic dignity no unseemly spectacle would be
                        permitted, was gathered all the paraphernalia of a shabby, eighth-rate
                        circus red wagons, wild animal and domestic horse tents, the moderate-sized
                        main tent, the side show, the fat woman's private wagon, a cage and
                        the like. I never saw so queer a scene. The whole square was crowded with
                        tents, great and small; but there was little going on, for a drizzling rain
                        was in progress. Can human dullness sink lower? I asked myself, feeling that
                        the civic heart of things was being profaned. Could utmost drabbiness
                        out-drab this? I doubted it. Why should the aldermen permit it? Yet I have
                        no doubt this situation appealed exactly to the imagination of the working
                        population. I can conceive that it would be about the only thing that would.
                        It was just raw and cheap and homely enough to do it. I left with pleasure.
                    When I came into Oldham on a tram-car from Rochdale, it was with my head
                        swimming from the number of mills I had seen. I have described the kind all
                        new. But I did not lose them here.
                    It was the luncheon hour and I was beginning to grow hungry. As I walked
                        along dull streets I noticed several small eating-places labeled
                        "fish, chip, and pea restaurant" and "tripe,
                        trotters, and cow-heels restaurant," which astonished me greatly
                        really astonished me. I had seen only one such before in my life and that
                        was  this same morning in Middleton a
                        "fish, chip, and pea restaurant"; but I did not get the
                        point sufficiently clearly to make a note of it. The one that I encountered
                        this afternoon had a sign in the window which stated that unquestionably its
                        chips were the best to be procured anywhere and very nourishing. A plate of
                        them standing close by made it perfectly plain that potato chips were meant.
                        No recommendation was given to either the fish or the peas. I pondered over
                        this, thinking that such restaurants must be due to the poverty of the
                        people and that meat being very dear, these three articles of diet were
                        substituted. Here in Oldham, however, I saw that several of these
                        restaurants stood in very central places where the rents should be
                        reasonably high and the traffic brisk. It looked as though they were popular
                        for some other reason. I asked a policeman.
                    "What is a 'fish, chip, and pea'
                        restaurant?" I asked.
                    "Well, to tell you the truth," he said, "it
                        's a place where a man who 's getting over a spree goes to
                        eat. Those things are good for the stomach."
                    I pondered over this curiously. There were four such restaurants in the
                        immediate vicinity, to say nothing of the one labeled "tripe,
                        trotters, and cow-heels," which astonished me even more.
                    "And what 's that for?" I asked of the same
                        officer.
                    "The same thing. A man who 's been drinking eats those
                        things."
                    I had to laugh, and yet this indicated another characteristic of a wet, rainy
                        climate, namely considerable drinking. At the next corner a man, a woman,
                        and a child conferring slightly confirmed my suspicion.
                    "Come on," said the man to the woman, all at once,
                        "let 's go to the pub. A beer 'll do you
                        good."
                    The three started off together, the child hanging by  the woman's hand. I followed them with my eyes, for I
                        could not imagine quite such a scene in America not done just in this way.
                        Women a certain type go to the back rooms of saloons well enough; children
                        are sent with pails for beer; but just this particular combination of
                        husband, wife, and child is rare, I am sure.
                    And such public houses! To satisfy myself of their character I went to three
                        in three different neighborhoods. Like those I saw in London and elsewhere
                        around it, they were pleasant enough in their arrangement, but gloomy. The
                        light from the outside was meager, darkened as it was by smoke and rain. If
                        you went on back into the general lounging-room, lights were immediately
                        turned on, for otherwise it was not bright enough to see. If you stayed in
                        the front at the bar proper it was still dark, and one light a mantled
                        gas-jet was kept burning. I asked the second barmaid with whom I conferred
                        about this:
                    "You don't always have to keep a light burning here, do
                        you?"
                    "Always, except two or three months in summer," she
                        replied. "Sometimes in July and August we don't need it.
                        As a rule we do."
                    "Surely, it is n't always dark and smoky like
                        this?"
                    "You should see it sometimes, if you call this bad," she
                        replied contemptuously. "It 's black."
                    "I should say it 's very near that now," I
                        commented.
                    "Oh, no, most of the mills are not running. You should see it when
                        it 's foggy and the mills are running."
                    She seemed to take a sort of pride in the matter and I sympathized with her.
                        It is rather distinguished to live in an extreme of any kind, even if it is
                        only that of a smoky wetness of climate. I went out, making my way to the
                        "Kafe" Monico, as the policeman who recommended the place
                        pronounced it. Here I enjoyed such  a meal as
                        only a third-rate restaurant which is considered first by the local
                        inhabitants would supply.
                    I journeyed forth once more, interested by the fact that, according to
                        Baedeker, from one point somewhere, on a clear day,
                        whenever that might be, six hundred stacks might be seen. In this fog I soon
                        found that it was useless to look for them. Instead I contented myself with
                        noting how, in so many cases, the end of a street, or the sheer dismal
                        length of an unbroken row of houses, all alike, was honored, made
                        picturesque, made grand even, by the presence of the mills, these gloomy
                        monuments of labor.
                    There is an architecture of manufacture, dreary and shabby as its setting
                        almost invariably is, which in its solemnity, strangeness of outline, pathos
                        and dignity, quite rivals, if it does not surpass, the more heralded forms
                        of the world its cathedrals, parthenons, Moorish temples and the like. I
                        have seen it often in America and elsewhere where a group of factory
                        buildings, unplanned as to arrangement and undignified as to substance,
                        would yet take on an exquisite harmony of line and order after which a much
                        more pretentious institution might well have been modeled. At Stockport,
                        near Manchester, for instance, on the Mersey, which here is little more than
                        a rivulet, but picturesque and lovely, I saw grouped a half-dozen immense
                        mills with towering chimneys which, for architectural composition from the
                        vantage point of the stream, could not have been surpassed. They had the
                        dignity of vast temples, housing a world of under-paid life which was
                        nevertheless rich in color and enthusiasm. Sometimes I fancy the modern
                        world has produced nothing more significant architecturally speaking, than
                        the vast manufactory. Here in Old-ham they were gathered in notable
                        clusters, towering over the business heart and the various resident sections
                        so that  the whole scene might well be said to
                        have been dominated by it. They bespeak a world of thought and feeling which
                        we of more intellectual fields are inclined at times to look on as dull and
                        low, but are they? I confess that for myself they move me at times as
                        nothing else does. They have vast dignity the throb and sob of the immense.
                        And what is more dignified than toiling humanity, anyhow its vague,
                        formless, illusioned hopes and fears? I wandered about the dull rain-sodden
                        thoroughfares, looking in at the store windows. In one I found a pair of
                        gold and a pair of silver slippers offered for sale for what feet in Oldham?
                        They were not high in price, but this sudden suggestion of romance in a dark
                        workaday world took my fancy.
                    At four o'clock, after several hours of such wandering, I returned
                        to the main thoroughfare the market-place in order to see what it was the
                        hundred and fifty thousand inhabitants found to entertain them. I looked for
                        theaters and found two, one of them a large moving-picture show. Of a
                        sudden, walking in a certain direction my ears were greeted by a most
                        euphonious clatter so interwoven and blended were the particular sounds
                        which I recognized at once as coming from the feet of a multitude, shod with
                        wooden-soled clogs. Where were they coming from? I saw no crowd. Suddenly,
                        up a side street, coming toward me down a slope I detected a vast throng.
                        The immense moving-picture theater had closed for the afternoon and its
                        entire audience, perhaps two thousand in all, was descending toward the main
                        street. In connection with this crowd, as with the other at Boulton, I noted
                        the phenomenon of the black or white straw hat, the black or brown shawl,
                        the shapeless skirts and wooden-soled clogs of the women; the dull,
                        commonplace suit and wooden clogs of the men. Where were they going now?
                        Home, of course. These must be a  portion of
                        the strikers. They looked to me like typical mill-workers out on a holiday
                        and their faces had a waxy pallor. I liked the sound of their shoes, though,
                        as they came along. It was like the rattle of many drums. They might have
                        been waltzing on a wooden floor. The thing had a swing and a rhythm of its
                        own. "What if a marching army were shod with wooden
                        shoes!" I thought; and then, "What if a mob with guns and
                        swords came clattering so!"
                    A crowd like this is like a flood of water pouring downhill. They came into
                        the dark main street and it was quite brisk for a time with their presence.
                        Then they melted away into the totality of the stream, as rivers do into the
                        sea, and things were as they had been before.
                    If there were any restaurants other than the "Kafe" Monico,
                        I did not find them. For entertainment I suppose those who are not
                        religiously minded do as they do in Fall River and elsewhere walk up and
                        down past the bright shop windows or sit and drink in the public houses,
                        which are unquestionably far more cheerful by night than by day.
                    The vast majority who live here must fall back for diversion on other things,
                        their work, their church, their family duties, or their vices. I am
                        satisfied that under such conditions sex plays a far more vital part in
                        cities of this description than almost anywhere else. For, although the
                        streets be dull and the duties of life commonplace, sex and the mysteries of
                        temperament weave their spells quite as effectively here as elsewhere, if
                        not more so. In fact, denied the more varied outlets of a more interesting
                        world, humanity falls back almost exclusively on sex. Women and men, or
                        rather boys and girls (for most of the grown women and men had a drudgy,
                        disillusioned, wearied look), went by each other glancing and smiling.  They were alert to be entertained by each
                        other, and while I saw little that I would call beauty in the women, or
                        charm and smartness in the men, nevertheless I could understand how the
                        standards of New York and Paris might not necessarily prevail here. Clothes
                        may not fit, fashion may find no suggestion of its dictates, but after all,
                        underneath, the lure of temperament and of beauty is the same. And so these
                        same murky streets may burn with a rich passional life of their own. I left
                        Oldham finally in the dark and in a driving rain, but not without a sense of
                        the sturdy vigor of the place, keen if drab.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIX
                    CANTERBURY
                    
                        IT was not so long after this that I journeyed southward.
                        My plan was to leave London two days ahead of Barfleur, visit Canterbury and
                        Dover, and meet with him there to travel to Paris together, and the Riviera.
                        From the Riviera I was to go on to Rome and he was to return to England.
                    Among other pleasant social duties I paid a farewell visit to Sir Scorp, who
                        shall appear often hereafter in these pages. During the Christmas holidays
                        at Barfleur's I had become well acquainted with this Irish knight
                        and famed connoisseur of art, and while in London I had seen much of him.
                        Here in his lovely mansion in Cheyne Walk I found him surrounded by what one
                        might really call the grandeur of his pictures. His house contained
                        distinguished examples of Rembrandt, Frans Hals, Van Dyck, Paul Potter,
                        Velasquez, Mancini and others, and as I contemplated him on this occasion he
                        looked not unlike one of the lymphatic cavaliers of Van Dyck's
                        canvases. A pale gentleman, this very remote in his spirit, very far removed
                        from the common run of life, concerned only with the ultimately artistic,
                        and wishing to be free of everything save the leisure to attend to this. He
                        was not going to leave London, he thought, at this time, except possibly for
                        a short visit to Paris. He was greatly concerned with the problem of finding
                        a dilapidated "cahstle" which he could restore, live in,
                        fill with his pictures and eventually sell, or dedicate to his beloved  England as a memorial of himself. It must be
                        a perfect example of Tudor architecture that he invariably repeated. I
                        gained the impression that he might fill it with interesting examples of
                        some given school or artist and leave it as a public monument.
                    He urged upon me that I ought to go about the work of getting up a loan
                        exhibit of representative American art, and have it brought to London. He
                        commended me to the joys of certain cities and scenes Pisa, San Miniato
                        outside of Florence, the Villa Doria at Rome. I had to smile at the
                        man's profound artistic assurance, for he spoke exactly as a
                        grandee recounting the glories of his kingdom. I admired the paleness of his
                        forehead and his hands and cast one longing look at his inestimable Frans
                        Hals. To think that any man in these days should have purchased for little a
                        picture that can in all likelihood be sold for $500,000 it was like walking
                        into Aladdin's cave.
                    The morning I left it was gray as usual. I had brought in all my necessary
                        belongings from Bridgely Level and installed them in my room at the hotel,
                        packed and ready. The executive mind of Barfleur was on the qui vive to see
                        that nothing was forgotten. A certain type of tie must be purchased for use
                        on the Riviera he had overlooked that. He thought my outing hat was not
                        quite light enough in color, so we went back to change it. I had lost my
                        umbrella in the excitement, and that had to be replaced. But finally,
                        rushing to and fro in a taxi, loaded like a van with belongings, Barfleur
                        breathing stertorously after each venture into a shop, we arrived at the
                        Victoria Station. Never having been on the Continent before, I did not
                        realize until we got there the wisdom of Barfleur's insistence that
                        I pack as much of my belongings as possible in bags, and as little as
                        possible in trunks. Traveling first class, as most of those who have  much luggage do, it is cheaper. As most
                        travelers know, one can take as many as five or six parcels or bags in the
                        compartment with one, and stow them on racks and under the seats, which
                        saves a heavy charge for excess baggage. In some countries, such as Italy,
                        nothing is carried free save your hand-luggage which you take in your
                        compartment with you. In addition the rates are high. I think I paid as much
                        as thirty shillings for the little baggage I had, over and above that which
                        I took in my compartment with me. To a person with a frugal temperament such
                        as mine, that is positively disconcerting. It was my first taste of what I
                        came subsequently to look upon as greedy Europe.
                    As the train rushed southeastwards I did my best to see the pleasant country
                        through which we were speeding the region indicated on the map as North
                        Downs. I never saw any portion of English country anywhere that I did not
                        respond to the charming simplicity of it, and understand and appreciate the
                        Englishman's pride in it. It has all the quality of a pastoral poem
                        the charm of Arcady fields of sheep, rows of quaint chimney pots and odd
                        houses tucked away among the trees, exquisite moldy and sagging roofs,
                        doorways and windows which look as though loving care had been spent on
                        them. Although this was January, all the leafless trees were covered with a
                        fine thin mold, as green as spring leaves. At Rochester the ruins of an
                        ancient castle came into view and a cathedral which I was not to see. At
                        Faversham I had to change from the Dover express to a local, and by noon I
                        was at Canterbury and was looking for the Fleur-de-lis which had been
                        recommended to me as the best hotel there. "At least,"
                        observed Barfleur, quite solemnly to me as we parted, "I think you
                        can drink the wine." I smiled, for my taste in that respect was not
                        so cultivated as his.
                    
                    Of all the places I visited in England, not excluding Oxford, I believe that
                        Canterbury pleased me most. The day may have had something to do with it. It
                        was warm and gray threatening rain at times but at times also the sun came
                        out and gave the old English town a glow which was not unrelated to spring
                        and Paradise. You will have to have a fondness for things English to like it
                        quaint, two-story houses with unexpected twists to their roofs, and oriel
                        and bay windows which have been fastened on in the most unexpected places
                        and in the strangest fashion. The colors, too, in some instances, are high
                        for England reds and yellows and blues; but in the main a smoky red-brick
                        tone prevails. The river Stour, which in America would be known as
                        Stour's Creek, runs through the city in two branches; and you find
                        it in odd places, walled in closely by the buildings, hung over by little
                        balconies and doorsteps, the like of which I did not see again until I
                        reached Venice. There were rooks in the sky, as I noticed, when I came out
                        of the railway station; I was charmed with winding streets, and a general
                        air of peace and quiet but I could not descry the cathedral anywhere. I made
                        my way up High Street which is English for "Main" and
                        finally found my recommended inn, small and dark, but in the hands of
                        Frenchmen and consequently well furnished in the matter of food. I came out
                        after a time and followed this street to its end, passing the famous gate
                        where the pilgrims used to sink on their knees and in that position pray
                        their way to the cathedral. As usual my Baedeker gave me a world of
                        information, but I could not stomach it, and preferred to look at the old
                        stones of which the gate was composed, wondering that it had endured so
                        long. The little that I knew of St. Augustine and King Ethelbert and Chaucer
                        and Thomas Becket and Laud came back to me. I cculd not have  called it sacred ground, but it was colored
                        at least with the romance of history, and I have great respect for what
                        people once believed, whether it was sensible or not.
                    Canterbury is a city of twenty-eight thousand, with gas-works and railroads
                        and an electric-power plant and moving pictures and a skating-rink. But,
                        though it has all these and much more of the same kind, it nevertheless
                        retains that indefinable something which is pure poetry and makes England
                        exquisite. As I look at it now, having seen much more of other parts of
                        Europe, the quality which produces this indefinable beauty in England is not
                        so much embodied in the individual as in the race. If you look at
                        architectural developments in other countries you have the feeling at times
                        as if certain individuals had greatly influenced the appearance of a city or
                        a country. This is true of Paris and Berlin, Florence and Milan. Some one
                        seems to have worked out a scheme at some time or other. In England I could
                        never detect an individual or public scheme of any kind. It all seemed to
                        have grown up, like an unheralded bed of flowers. Again I am satisfied that
                        it is the English temperament which, at its best, provides the indefinable
                        lure which exists in all these places. I noticed it in the towns about
                        Manchester where, in spite of rain and smoke, the same poetic hominess prevailed. Here in Canterbury, where the architecture
                        dates in its variation through all of eight centuries, you feel the
                        dominance of the English temperament which has produced it. To-day, in the
                        newest sections of London Hammersmith and Seven Kings, West Dulwich and
                        North Finchley you still feel it at work, accidentally or instinctively
                        constructing this atmosphere which is common to Oxford and Canterbury. It is
                        compounded of a sense of responsibility and cleanliness and religious
                        feeling and strong national and  family ties.
                        You really feel in England the distinction of the fireside and the family
                        heirloom; and the fact that a person must always keep a nice face on things,
                        however bad they may be. The same spirit erects bird-boxes on poles in the
                        yard and lays charming white stone doorsteps and plants vines to clamber
                        over walls and windows. It is a sweet and poetic spirit, however dull it may
                        seem by comparison with the brilliant iniquities of other realms. Here along
                        this little river Stour the lawns came down to the water in some instances;
                        the bridges over it were built with the greatest care; and although houses
                        lined it on either side for several miles of its ramblings, it was
                        nevertheless a clean stream. I noticed in different places, where the walls
                        were quite free of any other marks, a poster giving the picture and the
                        history of a murderer who was wanted by the police in Nottingham, and it
                        came to me, in looking at it, that he would have a hard time anywhere in
                        England concealing his identity. The native horror of disorder and scandal
                        would cause him to be yielded up on the moment.
                    In my wanderings, which were purely casual and haphazard, I finally came upon
                        the cathedral which loomed up suddenly through a curving street under a
                        leaden sky. It was like a lovely song, rendered with great pathos. Over a
                        Gothic gate of exquisite workmanship and endless labor, it soared two black
                        stone towers rising shapely and ornate into the gray air. I looked up to
                        some lattices which gave into what might have been the belfry, and saw birds
                        perched just as they should have been. The walls, originally gray, had been
                        turned by time and weather into a soft spongy black which somehow fitted in
                        exquisitely with the haze of the landscape. I had a curious sensation of
                        darker and lighter shades of gray lurking pools of darkness here and there,
                        and brightness in spots that became almost silver. The cathedral  grounds were charmingly enclosed in
                        vine-covered walls that were nevertheless worked out in harmonious detail of
                        stone. An ancient walk of some kind, overhung with broken arches that had
                        fallen into decay, led away into a green court which, by a devious process
                        of other courts and covered arches, gave into the cloister proper. I saw an
                        old deacon, or canon, of the church walking here in stately meditation; and
                        a typical English yeoman, his trousers fastened about the knee by the
                        useless but immemorial strap, came by, wheeling a few bricks in a barrow.
                        There were endless courts, it seemed to me, surrounded by two-story
                        buildings, all quaint in design, and housing Heaven-knows-what subsidiary
                        factors of the archiepiscopal life. They seemed very simple habitations to
                        me. Children played here on the walks and grass, gardeners worked at vines
                        and fences, and occasional workmen appeared men who, I supposed, were
                        connected with the architectural repairs which were being made to the faade.
                        As I stood in the courtyard of the archbishop's house, which was in
                        front and to the left of the cathedral as you faced it, a large blue-gray
                        touring-car suddenly appeared, and a striking-looking ecclesiastic in a
                        shovel hat stepped out. I had the wish and the fancy that I was looking at
                        the archbishop himself a sound, stern, intellectual-looking person but I did
                        not ask. He gave me a sharp, inquiring look, and I withdrew beyond these
                        sacred precincts and into the cathedral itself, where a tinny-voiced bell
                        was beginning to ring for afternoon service.
                    I am sure I shall never forget the interior of Canterbury. It was the first
                        really old, great cathedral that I had seen for I had not prized very highly
                        either St. Paul's or St. Alban's. I had never quite
                        realized how significant these structures must have been in an age when they
                        were far and away the most important buildings  of the time. No king's palace could ever have had the importance
                        of Canterbury, and the cry from the common peasant to the Archiepiscopal see
                        must have been immense. Here really ruled the primate of all England, and
                        here Becket was murdered.
                    Of all known architectural forms the Gothic corresponds more nearly to the
                        finest impulse in nature itself that is, to produce the floreated form. The
                        aisles of the trees are no more appealing artistically than those of a great
                        cathedral, and the overhanging branches through which the light falls have
                        not much more charm than some of these perfect Gothic ceilings sustained by
                        their many branching arms of stone. Much had happened, apparently, to the
                        magnificent stained-glass windows which must have filled the tall-pointed
                        openings at different periods, and many of them have been replaced by plain
                        frosted glass. Those that remain are of such richness of color and such
                        delightful variety of workmanship that, seen at the end of long stretches of
                        aisles and ambulatories, they are like splotches of blood or deep indigo,
                        throwing a strange light on the surrounding stone.
                    I presently fell in tow of a guide. It is said to-day that Americans are more
                        like the Germans than like the English; but from the types I encountered in
                        England I think the variety of American temperaments spring naturally from
                        the mother country. Four more typical New England village specimens I never
                        saw than these cathedral ushers or guides. They were sitting on the steps
                        leading up to the choir, clad in cap and gown, engaged in cheerful gossip.
                    "Your turn, Henry," said one, and the tallest of the three
                        came around and unlocked the great iron gates which give into the choir.
                        Then began, for my special benefit, a magnificent oration. We were joined,
                        after we had gone a little way, by a party of ladies from Pennsylvania  sylvania who were lurking in one of the
                        transepts; and nothing would do but my guide must go back to the iron
                        entrance-way to the choir and begin all over. Not a sentence was twisted,
                        not a pause misplaced. "Good heavens," I thought,
                        "he does that every day in the year, perhaps a dozen times a
                        day." He was like a phonograph with but one record, which is
                        repeated endlessly. Nevertheless, the history of the archbishops, the Black
                        Prince, the Huguenot refugees, the carving of the woodwork and the
                        disappearance of the windows was all interesting. After having made the
                        rounds of the cathedral, we came out into the cloister, the corridors of
                        which were all black and crumbling with age, and he indicated the spot and
                        described the manner in which Becket had been stabbed and had fallen. I
                        don't know when a bit of history has moved me so much.
                    It was the day the gentle quality of it its very spring-like texture that
                        made it all so wonderful. The grass in this black court was as green as new
                        lettuce; the pendants and facets of the arches were crumbling into black
                        sand and spoke seemingly of a thousand years. High overhead the towers and
                        the pinnacles, soaring as gracefully as winged living things, looked down
                        while I faced the black-gowned figure of my guide and thought of the ancient
                        archbishop crossing this self-same turf (how long can be the life of
                        grass?).
                    When I came outside the gate into the little square or triangle which faces
                        it I found a beautiful statue of the lyric muse a semi-nude dancing girl
                        erected to the memory of Christopher Marlowe. It surprised me a little to
                        find it here, facing Canterbury, in what might be called the sacred
                        precincts of religious art; but it is suitably placed and brought back to my
                        mind the related kingdom of poetry.
                    All the little houses about have heavy overhanging  eaves and diamond-shaped, lead-paned windows. The walls are
                        thick and whitewashed, ranging in color from cream to brown. They seem
                        unsuited to modern life; and yet they frequently offered small shop-windows
                        full of all the things that make it: picture-postcards, American shoes,
                        much-advertised candy, and the latest books and magazines. I sought a
                        tea-room near by and had tea, looking joyously out against the wall where
                        some clematis clambered, and then wandered back to the depot to get my
                        mackintosh and umbrella for it was begining to rain. For two hours more I
                        walked up and down in the rain and dark, looking into occasional windows
                        where the blinds had not been drawn and stopping in taprooms or public
                        hosues where rosy barmaids waited on one with courteous smiles.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XX
                    EN ROUTE TO PARIS
                    
                        ONE of the things which dawned upon me in moving about
                        England, and particularly as I was leaving it, was the reason for the
                        inestimable charm of Dickens. I do not know that anywhere in London or
                        England I encountered any characters which spoke very forcefully of those he
                        described. It is probable that they were all somewhat exaggerated. But of
                        the charm of his setting there can be no doubt. He appeared at a time when
                        the old order was giving way, and the new the new as we have known it in the
                        last sixty years was manifesting itself very sharply. Railroads were just
                        coming in and coaches being dispensed with; the modern hotel was not yet
                        even thought of, but it was impending.
                    Dickens, born and raised in London, was among the first to perceive the
                        wonder of the change and to contrast it graphically with what had been and
                        still was. In such places as St. Alban's, Marlowe, Canterbury,
                        Oxford, and others, I could see what the old life must have been like when
                        the stage-coach ruled and made the principal highways lively with traffic.
                        Here in Canterbury and elsewhere there were inns sacred to the characters of
                        Dickens; and you could see how charming that world must have appeared to a
                        man who felt that it was passing. He saw it in its heyday, and he recorded
                        it as it could not have been recorded before and can never be again. He saw
                        also the charm of simple English life the native love of cleanly pots and
                        pans and ordered dooryards;  and that,
                        fortunately, has not changed. I cannot think of any one doing England as
                        Dickens did it until there is something new to be done the old spirit
                        manifested in a new way. From Shakespeare to Dickens the cry is long; from
                        Dickens to his successors it may be longer still.
                    I was a bit perturbed on leaving Canterbury to realize that on the morrow at
                        this same time I should catch my first glimpse of Paris. The clerk at the
                        station who kept my bags for me noted that I came from New York and told me
                        he had a brother in Wisconsin, and that he liked it very much out there.
                    I said, "I suppose you will be coming to America yourself, one of
                        these days?"
                    "Oh, yes," he said; "the big chances are out
                        there. I 'll either go to Canada or Wisconsin."
                    "Well, there are plenty of states to choose from," I said.
                    "A lot of people have gone from this place," he replied.
                    It rained hard on the way to Dover; but when I reached there it had ceased,
                        and I even went so far as to leave my umbrella in the train. When I early
                        discovered my loss I reported it at once to the porter who was carrying my
                        belongings.
                    "Don't let that worry you," he replied, in the
                        calmest and most assuring of English tones. "They always look
                        through the trains. You 'll find it in the parcel-room."
                    Sure enough, when I returned there it was behind the clerk's desk;
                        and it was handed to me promptly. If I had not had everything which I had
                        lost, barring one stick, promptly returned to me since I had been in
                        England, I should not have thought so much of this; but it confirmed my
                        impression that I was among a people who are temperamentally honest.
                    My guide led me to the Lord Warden Hotel, where I  arranged myself comfortably in a good room for the night. It
                        pleased me, on throwing open my windows, to see that this hotel fronted a
                        bay or arm of the sea and that I was in the realm of great ships and sea
                        traffic instead of the noisy heart of a city. Because of a slight haze, not
                        strong enough to shut out the lights entirely, fog-horns and fog-bells were
                        going; and I could hear the smash of waves on the shore. I decided that
                        after dinner I would reconnoiter Dover. There was a review of warships in
                        the harbor at the time; and the principal streets were crowded with marines
                        in red jackets and white belts and the comic little tambourine caps cocked
                        jauntily over one ear. Such a swarm of red-jackets I never saw in my life.
                        They were walking up and down in pairs and trios, talking briskly and
                        flirting with the girls. I fancy that representatives of the underworld of
                        women who prey on this type of youth were here in force.
                    Much to my astonishment, in this Snargate Street I found a south-of-England
                        replica of the "Fish, Chip, and Pea" institution of the
                        Manchester district. I concluded from this that it must be an all-English
                        institution, and wherever there was much drunkenness there would be these
                        restaurants. In such a port as Dover, where, sailors freely congregate, it
                        would be apt to be common; and so it proved.
                    Farther up High Street, in its uttermost reaches in fact, I saw a sign which
                        read: "Thomas Davidge, Bone-setter and Tooth-surgeon"
                        whatever that may be. Its only rival was another I had seen in Boulton which
                        ran: "Temperance Bar and Herbal Stores."
                    The next morning I was up early and sought the famous castle on the hill, but
                        could not gain admission and could not see it for the fog. I returned to the
                        beach when the fog had lifted and I could see not only  the castle on the hill, but the wonderful harbor besides. It
                        was refreshing to see the towering cliff of chalk, the pearl-blue water, the
                        foaming surf along the interesting sea walk, and the lines of summer or
                        perhaps they are winter residences facing the sea on this one best street.
                        Dover, outside of this one street, was not to me handsome, but here all was
                        placid, comfortable, socially interesting. I wondered what type of
                        Englishman it was that came to summer or winter at Dover so conveniently
                        located between London and Paris.
                    At ten-thirty this morning the last train from London making the boat for
                        Calais was to arrive and with it Barfleur and all his paraphernalia bound
                        for Paris.
                    It seems to me that I have sung the praises of Barfleur as a directing
                        manager quite sufficiently for one book; but I shall have to begin anew. He
                        arrived as usual very brisk, a porter carrying four or five pieces of
                        luggage, his fur coat over his arm, his monocle gleaming as though it had
                        been freshly polished, a cane and an umbrella in hand, and inquiring crisply
                        whether I had secured the particular position on deck which he had requested
                        me to secure and hold. If it were raining, according to a slip of paper on
                        which he had written instructions days before I left London, I was to enter
                        the cabin of the vessel which crossed the channel; prempt a section of seat
                        along the side wall by putting all my luggage there; and bribe a porter to
                        place two chairs in a comfortable windless position on deck to which we
                        could repair in case it should clear up on the way over. All of this I
                        faithfully did. The chairs had the best possible position behind the
                        deck-house and one of my pieces of luggage was left there as a guarantee
                        that they belonged to me. It looked like rain when the train arrived, and we
                        went below for a sandwich and a cup of coffee; but before the boat left it
                        faired up somewhat and we sat on deck studying  the harbor and the interesting company which was to cross with us. Some
                        twenty English school-girls in charge of several severe-looking chaperones
                        were crossing to Paris, either for a holiday, or, as Barfleur suggested, to
                        renew their studies in a Paris school. A duller lot of maidens it would be
                        hard to conceive, and yet some of them were not at all bad-looking.
                        Conservatism and proper conduct were written all over them. Their clothing
                        was severely plain, and their manners were most circumspect. None of that
                        vivacity which characterizes the average American girl would have been
                        tolerated under the circumstances. There was no undue giggling and little,
                        if any, jesting. They interested me, because I instantly imagined twenty
                        American girls of the same age in their place. They would have manifested
                        twenty times the interest and enthusiasm, only in England that would have
                        been the height of bad manners. As it was these English maidens sat in a
                        quaint row all the way over, and disappeared quite conservatively into the
                        train at Calais.
                    This English steamer crossing the channel to France was a disappointment to
                        me in one way. I had heard for some time past that the old uncomfortable
                        channel boats had been dispensed with and new commodious steamers put in
                        their place. As a matter of fact, these boats were not nearly so large as
                        those that run from New York to Coney Island, nor so commodious, though much
                        cleaner and brighter. If it had rained, as Barfleur anticipated, the cabin
                        below would have been intolerably overcrowded and stuffy. As it was, all the
                        passengers were on the upper deck, sitting in camp chairs and preparing
                        stoically to be sick. It was impossible to conceive that a distance so
                        short, not more than twenty-three or four miles, should be so disagreeable
                        as Barfleur said it was at times. The boat did not pitch to any extent on
                        this trip over.  On my return, some three
                        months later, I had a different experience. But now the wind blew fiercely
                        and it was cold. The channel was as gray as a rabbit and offensively bleak.
                        I did not imagine the sea could be so dull-looking, and France, when it
                        appeared in the distance, was equally bleak in appearance. As we drew near
                        Calais it was no better a shore-line beset with gas tanks and iron
                        foundries. But when we actually reached the dock and I saw a line of
                        sparkling French facteurs looking down on the boat from
                        the platform above presto! England was gone. Gone all the solemnity and the
                        politeness of the porters who had brought our luggage aboard, gone the quiet
                        civility of ship officers and train-men, gone the solid doughlike quiescence
                        of the whole English race. It seemed to me on the instant as if the sky had
                        changed and instead of the gray misty pathos of English life albeit sweet
                        and romantic had come the lively slap-dash of another world. These men who
                        looked down on us with their snappy birdlike eyes were no more like the
                        English than a sparrow is like a great auk. They were black-haired,
                        black-eyed, lean, brown, active. They had on blue aprons and blue jumpers
                        and a kind of military cap. There was a touch of scarlet somewhere, either
                        in their caps or their jackets, I forget which; and somewhere near by I saw
                        a French soldier his scarlet woolen trousers and lead-blue coat contrasting
                        poorly, so far as clat goes, with the splendid trimness of
                        the British. Nevertheless he did not look inefficient, but raw and forceful,
                        as one imagines the soldiers of Napoleon should be. The vividness of the
                        coloring made up for much, and I said at once that I would not give France
                        for fifty million Englands. I felt, although I did not speak the language,
                        as though I had returned to America.
                    It is curious how one feels about France, or at least  how I feel about it. For all of six weeks I had been rejoicing
                        in the charms and the virtues of the English. London is a great city
                        splendid the intellectual capital of the world. Manchester and the north
                        represent as forceful a manufacturing realm as the world holds, there is no
                        doubt of that. The quaintness and sweetness of English country life is not
                        to be surpassed for charm and beauty. But France has fifty times the spirit
                        and enthusiasm of England. After London and the English country it seems
                        strangely young and vital. France is often spoken of as decadent but I said
                        to myself, "Good Lord, let us get some of this decadence, and take
                        it home with us. It is such a cheerful thing to have around." I
                        would commend it to the English particularly.
                    On the way over Barfleur had been giving me additional instructions. I was to
                        stay on board when the boat arrived and signal a facteur who would then come
                        and get my luggage. I was to say to him, "Sept
                            colis," whereupon he would gather up the bundles and lead
                        the way to the dock. I was to be sure and get his number, for all French
                        facteurs were scoundrels, and likely to rob you. I did exactly as I was
                        told, while Barfleur went forward to engage a section, first class, and to
                        see that we secured places in the dining-car for the first service. Then he
                        returned and found me on the dock, doing my best to keep track of the
                        various pieces of luggage, while the facteur did his best to secure the
                        attention of a customs inspector.
                    It was certainly interesting to see the difference between the arrival of
                        this boat at Calais and the similar boat which took us off the Mauretania at Fishguard. There, although the crowd which had
                        arrived was equally large, all was peaceful and rather still. The porters
                        went about their work in such a matter-of-fact manner.  All was in apple-pie order. There was no shouting to speak of.
                        Here all was hubbub and confusion, apparently, although it was little-more
                        than French enthusiasm. You would have fancied that the French guards and
                        facteurs were doing their best to liberate their pent-up feelings. They
                        bustled restlessly to and fro; they grimaced; they reassured you frequently
                        by look and sign that all would be well, must be so. Inside of five minutes,
                        during which time I examined the French news-stand and saw how marvelously
                        English conservatism had disappeared in this distance of twenty miles, the
                        luggage had been passed on and we were ready to enter the train. Barfleur
                        had purchased a number of papers, Figaro, Gil Bias, and
                        others in order to indicate the difference between the national lives of the
                        two countries which I was now to contrast. I never saw a man so eager to see
                        what effect a new country would have on another. He wanted me to see the
                        difference between the English and the French papers at once; and although I
                        was thoroughly familiar with it already, I carefully examined these latest
                        productions of the French presses. The same delicious nudities that have
                        been flourishing in the French papers for years were there, the same subtle
                        Gallic penchant for the absurd and the ridiculous. I marveled anew at the
                        sprightliness of these figures, which never cross the Atlantic into American
                        papers. We do not know how to draw them because we are not accustomed to
                        them in our lives. As a matter of fact the American papers and magazines
                        adhere rigorously to the English standard. We have varied some in
                        presentation, but have not broadened the least in treatment. As a matter of
                        fact I believe that the American weekly and monthly are even more
                        conservative than the British paper of the same standard. We think we are
                        different, but we are not. We have not even anything in common with the
                        Germans, from whom we  are supposed to have
                        drawn so much of our national personality.
                    However, the train started after a few moments and soon we were speeding
                        through that low flat country which lies between Calais and Paris. It was a
                        five-hour run direct, but we were going to stop off at Amiens to see the
                        great cathedral there. I was struck at once by the difference between the
                        English and the French landscape. Here the trees were far fewer, and what
                        there were of them were not tinged with that rich green mold which is
                        characteristic of every tree in England. The towns, too, as they flashed
                        past for this was an express were radically different in their appearance. I
                        noted the superabundance of conical red roofs swimming in a silvery light,
                        and hard white walls that you could see for miles. No trees intervened to
                        break the view, and now and then a silvery thread of a river appeared.
                    It was on this trip that I gathered my first impressions of a French railway
                        as contrasted with those of England and America. The French rails were laid
                        to the standard gage, I noticed, and the cars were after the American not
                        the English style: large, clean, commodious, with this improvement over the
                        American car that they were of the corridor and compartment style as
                        contrasted with our one room, open-space style. After my taste of the
                        compartment car in England I was fairly satisfied to part forever with the
                        American plan of one long open room in which every one can see every one
                        else, interesting as that spectacle may be to some. The idea of some privacy
                        appealed to me more. The American Pullman has always seemed a criminal
                        arrangement to me, anyhow, and at Manchester I had met a charming society
                        woman who in passing had told me that the first time she was compelled to
                        undress in an American sleeping car she cried. Her personal sense of privacy
                        was so outrageously invaded.  Our large
                        magnates having their own private cars or being able to charter a whole
                        train on occasion need not worry about this small matter of delicacy in
                        others (it would probably never concern them personally anyhow) and so the
                        mass and the unsuspecting stranger is made to endure what he bitterly
                        resents and what they never feel. I trust time and a growing sense of
                        chivalry in the men at the top as well as a sense of privilege and necessity
                        in the mass at the bottom will alter all this. America is a changing
                        country. In due time, after all the hogs are fed or otherwise disposed of, a
                        sense of government of the people for the people will probably appear. It
                        has made only the barest beginning as yet. There are some things that the
                        rank and file are entitled to, however even the rank and file and these they
                        will eventually get.
                    I was charmed with the very medieval air of Amiens, when we reached there, a
                        bare, gray, cobble-stony city which, however, appeared to be solid and
                        prosperous. Here, as in the rest of France, I found that the conical-roofed
                        tower, the high-peaked roof, the solid gray or white wall, and the thick red
                        tile, fluted or flat, combined to produce what may be looked upon as the
                        national touch. The houses here varied considerably from the English
                        standard in being in many cases very narrow and quite high for their width
                        four and five stories. They are crowded together, too, in a seemingly
                        defensive way, and seem to lack light and air. The solid white or gray
                        shutters, the thick fluted rain-pipe, and the severe, simple thickness of
                        the walls produced an atmosphere which I came to look upon after a time as
                        supremely Gallic, lingering on from a time when France was a very different
                        country from what it is to-day.
                    Amiens was all of this. It would have seemed hard and cold and bare and dry
                        except for these little quirks  of roofs, and
                        the lightness of the spirit of the people. We wandered through high-walled,
                        cobble-paved streets until suddenly we came on the cathedral, soaring upward
                        out of a welter of the dreary and commonplace. I had thought Canterbury was
                        wonderful but now I knew that I had never seen anything in my life before so
                        imposing as Amiens. Pure Gothic, like Canterbury, it was so much larger; a
                        perfect maze of pinnacles, towers, arches, buttresses and flying buttresses;
                        it soared into the sky carven saint above carven saint, and gargoyles
                        leering from every cranny. I could scarcely believe that the faith of man
                        had ever reared so lovely a thing. What a power religion must have been in
                        those days! Or what a grip this form of art must have taken on the
                        imagination of some! To what perfection the art of architecture had
                        attained! The loving care that has been exercised in designing, shaping and
                        placing these stones is enough to stagger the brain. I did not wonder when I
                        saw it that Ruskin and Morris had attained to a sort of frenzy over the
                        Gothic. It is a thing for sighs and tears. Both Barfleur and I walked around
                        it in reverent silence, and I knew that he was rejoicing to know that I was
                        feeling what I ought to feel.
                    We went inside after a time because it was threatening dusk and we had to
                        make our train for Paris. I shall never forget the vast space within those
                        wondrous doors the world of purple and gold and blue in the windows, the
                        blaze of a hundred and more candles upon the great altar, the shrines with
                        their votive offerings of flaming tapers, the fat waddling mothers in bunchy
                        skirts, the heavy priests with shovel hats and pig-like faces, the order of
                        attendant sisters in blue collars and flaring linen headgear, the worshipful
                        figures scattered here and there upon the hard stone floor on their knees.
                        The vast space was full of a delicious incense; faint  shadows were already pooling themselves in the arches above to
                        blend into a great darkness. Up rose the columns, giant redwoods of stone,
                        supporting the far-off roof; the glory of pointed windows, the richness of
                        foliated decorations, the worshipfulness of graven saints set in shrines
                        whose details seemed the tendrils of spring. Whatever the flower, the fruit,
                        the leaf, the branch, could contribute in the way of artistic suggestion had
                        here been seized upon. Only the highest order of inspiration could have
                        conceived or planned or executed this delicious dream in stone.
                    A guide, for a franc or two, took us high up into the organ-loft and out upon
                        a narrow balustrade leading about the roof. Below, all France was spread
                        out; the city of Amiens, its contour, was denned accurately. You could see
                        some little stream, the Somme, coming into the city and leaving it.
                        Wonderful figures of saints and devils were on every hand. We were shown a
                        high tower in which a treaty between France and Spain had been signed. I
                        looked down into the great well of the nave inside and saw the candles
                        glowing like gold and the people moving like small bugs across the floor. It
                        was a splendid confirmation of the majesty of man, the power of his ideals,
                        the richness and extent of his imagination, the sheer ability of his hands.
                        I would not give up my fleeting impression of Amiens for anything that I
                        know.
                    As we came away from the cathedral in the dusk we walked along some branch or
                        canal of the Somme, and I saw for the first time the peculiar kind of boat
                        or punt used on French streams a long affair, stub-pointed at either end. It
                        was black and had somewhat the effect of a gondola. A Frenchman in baggy
                        corduroy trousers and soft wool cap pulled over one ear was poling it along.
                        It contained hay piled in a rude mass. It was warm here,  in spite of the fact that it was the middle
                        of January, and there was a feeling of spring in the air. Barfleur informed
                        me that the worst of winter in Paris appeared between January fifteenth and
                        the middle of March, that the spring did not really show itself until the
                        first of April or a little later.
                    "You will be coming back by then," he said, "and
                        you will see it in all its glory. We will go to Fontainebleau and
                        ride." That sounded very promising to me.
                    I could not believe that these dull cobble-stone streets through which we
                        were passing were part of a city of over ninety thousand, and that there was
                        much manufacturing here. There were so few people in sight. It had a gray,
                        shut-up appearance none of the flow and spirit of the towns of the American
                        Middle West. It occurred to me at once that, though I might like to travel
                        here, I should never like to live here. Then we reached the railway station
                        again.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXI
                    PARIS!
                    
                        THERE is something about the French nation which, in spite
                        of its dreary-looking cities, exhibits an air of metropolitan
                        up-to-dateness. I don't know where outside of America you will find
                        the snap and intensity of emotion, ambition, and romance which you find
                        everywhere in French streets. The station, when we returned to it, was alive
                        with a crowd of bustling, hurrying people, buying books and papers at
                        news-stands, looking after their luggage in the baggage-room, and chattering
                        to the ticket-sellers through their windows. A train from Paris was just in
                        and they were hurrying to catch that; and as I made my first French purchase
                        twenty centimes' worth of post-cards of Amiens our train rolled in.
                        It was from the North such a long train as you frequently see in America,
                        with cars labeled Milan, Trieste, Marseilles, Florence, and Rome. I could
                        hardly believe it, and asked Barfleur as he bustled about seeing that the
                        luggage was put in the proper carriage, where it came from. He thought that
                        some of these cars started from St. Petersburg and others from Denmark and
                        Holland. They had a long run ahead of them yet over thirty hours to Rome,
                        and Paris was just one point in their journey. We crowded into one car
                        stuffy with luggage, its windows damp with human breath, various
                        nationalities occupying the section and disposed of our grips, portmanteaus,
                        rugs and so on, as best we could. I slipped the bustling old factenr a franc not so much because he deserved it, but because he
                        had such a gay and  rakish air. His apron
                        swung around his legs like a skirt, and his accordion-plaited cap was
                        lolling gaily over one ear. He waved me a smiling farewell and said
                        something in French which I wished I could understand. Then I realized for
                        the first time what a pity it is not to understand the language of the
                        country in which you are traveling.
                    As the train sped on through the dark to Paris I fell to speculating on the
                        wonders I was to see. Barfleur was explaining to me that in order to make my
                        entrance into Paris properly gay and interesting, we were to dine at the Caf
                        de Paris and then visit the Folies-Bergre and afterwards have supper at the
                        Abbaye Thlme.
                    I should say here that of all people I know Barfleur is as capable of
                        creating an atmosphere as any perhaps more so. The man lives so heartily in
                        his moods, he sets the stage for his actions long beforehand, and then walks
                        on like a good actor and plays his part thoroughly. All the way over from
                        the very first day we met in New York, I think he was either consciously or
                        unconsciously building up for me the glamour of smart and artistic life in
                        Europe. Now these things are absolutely according to your capacity to
                        understand and appreciate them; they are, if you please, a figment of the
                        brain, a frame of mind. If you love art, if you love history, if the romance
                        of sex and beauty enthralls you, Europe in places presents tremendous
                        possibilities. To reach these ethereal paradises of charm, you must skip and
                        blink and dispense with many things. All the long lines of commonplaces
                        through which you journey must be as nothing. You buy and prepare and travel
                        and polish and finally you reach the center of this thing which is so
                        wonderful; and then, when you get there, it is a figment of your own mind.
                        Paris and the Riviera are great realities there are houses and crowds and
                        people and great institutions  and the
                        remembrance and flavor of great deeds; but the thing that you get out of all
                        this for yourself is born of the attitude or mood which you take with you.
                        Toward gambling, show, romance, a delicious scene, Barfleur carries a
                        special mood. Life is only significant because of these things. His great
                        struggle is to avoid the dingy and the dull, and to escape if possible the
                        penalties of encroaching age. I think he looks back on the glitter of his
                        youth with a pathetic eye, and I know he looks forward into the dark with
                        stoic solemnity. Just one hour of beauty, is his private cry, one more day
                        of delight. Let the future take care of itself. He realizes, too, with the
                        keenness of a realist, that if youth is not most vivid in yourself, it can
                        sometimes be achieved through the moods of others. I know he found in me a
                        zest and a curiosity and a wonder which he was keen to satisfy. Now he would
                        see this thing over as he had seen it years before. He would observe me
                        thrill and marvel, and so he would be able to thrill and marvel himself once
                        more. He clung to me with delicious enthusiasm, and every now and then would
                        say, "Come now, what are you thinking? I want to know. I am
                        enjoying this as much as you are." He had a delicious vivacity
                        which acted on me like wine.
                    As we neared Paris he had built this city up so thoroughly in my mood that I
                        am satisfied that I could not have seen it with a realistic eye if I had
                        tried. It was somethingI cannot tell you what Napoleon, the Louvre, the art
                        quarter, Montmartre, the gay restaurants, the boulevards, Balzac, Hugo, the
                        Seine and the soldiery, a score and a hundred things too numerous to mention
                        and all greatly exaggerated. I hoped to see something which was perfect in
                        its artistic appearance exteriorly speaking. I expected, after reading
                        George Moore and others, a wine-like atmosphere; a throbbing world of  gay life; women of exceptional charm of face
                        and dress; the bizarre, the unique, the emotional, the spirited. At Amiens I
                        had seen enough women entering the trains to realize that the dreary
                        commonplace of the English woman was gone. Instead the young married women
                        that we saw were positively daring compared to what England could show
                        shapely, piquant, sensitive, their eyes showing a birdlike awareness of what
                        this world has to offer. I fancied Paris would be like that, only more so;
                        and as I look back on it now I can honestly say that I was not greatly
                        disappointed. It was not all that I thought it would be, but it was enough.
                        It is a gay, brilliant, beautiful city, with the spirit of New York and more
                        than the distinction of London. It is like a brilliant, fragile child not
                        made for contests and brutal battles, but gay beyond reproach.
                    When the train rolled into the Gare du Nord it must have been about eight
                        o'clock. Barfleur, as usual, was on the qui vive for precedence and
                        advantage. He had industriously piled all the bags close to the door, and
                        was hanging out of a window doing his best to signal a facteur. I was to
                        stay in the car and hand all the packages down rapidly while he ran to
                        secure a taxi and an inspector and in other ways to clear away the
                        impediments to our progress. With great executive enthusiasm he told me that
                        we must be at the Hotel Normandy by eight-fifteen or twenty and that by nine
                        o'clock we must be ready to sit down in the Caf de Paris to an
                        excellent dinner which he had ordered by telegraph.
                    I recall my wonder in entering Paris the lack of any long extended suburbs,
                        the sudden flash of electric lights and electric cars. Mostly we seemed to
                        be entering through a tunnel or gully, and then we were there. The noisy
                        facteurs in their caps and blue jumpers were all around the cars. They ran
                        and chattered and gesticulated  so unlike the
                        porters in Paddington and Waterloo and Victoria and Euston. The one we
                        finally secured, a husky little enthusiast, did his best to gather all our
                        packages in one grand mass and shoulder them, stringing them on a single
                        strap. The result of it was that the strap broke right over a small pool of
                        water, and among other things the canvas bag containing my blanket and
                        magnificent shoes fell into the water. "Oh, my God,"
                        exclaimed Barfleur, "my hat box!"
                    "The fool ass," I added, "I knew he would do just
                        that My blanket! My shoes!"
                    The excited facteur was fairly dancing in anguish, doing his best to get the
                        packages strung together. Between us we relieved him of about half of them,
                        and from about his waist he unwrapped another large strap and strung the
                        remainder on that. Then we hurried on for nothing would do but that we must
                        hurry. A taxi was secured and all our luggage piled on it. It looked half
                        suffocated under bundles as it swung out into the street, and we were off at
                        a mad clip through crowded, electric-lighted streets. I pressed my nose to
                        the window and took in as much as I could, while Barfleur between
                        calculations as to how much time this would take, and that would take, and
                        whether my trunk had arrived safely, expatiated laconically on French
                        characteristics.
                    "You smell this air it is all over Paris."
                    "The taxis always go like this." (We were going like mad.)
                    "There is an excellent type look at her."
                    "Now you see the chairs out in front they are that way all over
                        Paris."
                    I was looking at the interesting restaurant life which never really seems to
                        be interrupted anywhere in Paris. You can always find a dozen chairs
                        somewhere, if not  fifty or a hundred, out on
                        the sidewalk under the open sky, or a glass roof little stone-topped tables
                        beside them, the crowd surging to and fro in front. Here you can sit and
                        have your coffee, your liqueur, your sandwich. Everybody seems to do it it
                        is as common as walking in the streets.
                    We whirled through street after street partaking of this atmosphere, and
                        finally swung up in front of a rather plain hotel which, I learned this same
                        night, was close to the Avenue de l'Opra, on the corner of the Rue
                        St. Honor and the Rue de l'Echelle. Our luggage was quickly
                        distributed and I was shown into my room by a maid who could not speak
                        English. I unlocked my belongings and was rapidly changing my clothes when
                        Barfleur, breathing mightily, fully arrayed, appeared to say that I should
                        await him at the door below where he would arrive with two guests. I did so,
                        and in fifteen minutes he returned, the car spinning up out of a steady
                        stream that was flowing by. I think my head was dizzy with the whirl of
                        impressions which I was garnering, but I did my best to keep a sane view of
                        things, and to get my impressions as sharp and clear as I could.
                    I am quite satisfied of one thing in this world, and that is that the
                        commonest intelligence is very frequently confused or hypnotized or
                        overpersuaded by certain situations, and that the weaker ones are ever full
                        of the wildest forms of illusion. We talk about the sanity of life I
                        question whether it exists. Mostly it is a succession of confusing,
                        disturbing impressions which are only rarely valid. This night I know I was
                        moving in a sort of maze, and when I stepped into the car and was introduced
                        to the two girls who were with Barfleur, I easily succumbed to what was
                        obviously their great beauty.
                    The artist Greuze has painted the type that I saw before  me over and over soft, buxom, ruddy womanhood. I think the two
                        may have been twenty-four and twenty-six. The elder was smaller than the
                        younger although both were of good size and not so ruddy; but they were both
                        perfectly plump, round-faced, dimpled, and with a wealth of brownish-black
                        hair, even white teeth, smooth plump arms and necks and shoulders. Their
                        chins were adorably rounded, their lips red, and their eyes laughing and
                        gay. They began laughing and chattering the moment I entered, extending
                        their soft white hands and saying things in French which I could not
                        understand. Barfleur was smiling beaming through his monocle in an amused,
                        superior way. The older girl was arrayed in pearl-colored silk with a black
                        mantilla spangled with silver, and the younger had a dress of peach-blow hue
                        with a white lace mantilla also spangled, and they breathed a faint perfume.
                        We were obviously in beautiful, if not moral, company.
                    I shall never forget the grand air with which this noble company entered the
                        Caf de Paris. Barfleur was in fine feather and the ladies radiated a charm
                        and a flavor which immediately attracted attention. This brilliant caf was
                        aglow with lights and alive with people. It is not large in size quite small
                        in fact and triangular in shape. The charm of it comes not so much from the
                        luxury of the fittings, which are luxurious enough, but from their exceeding
                        good taste, and the fame of the cuisine. One does not see a bill of fare
                        here that indicates prices. You order what you like and are charged what is
                        suitable. Champagne is not an essential wine as it is in some restaurants
                        you may drink what you like. There is a delicious sparkle and spirit to the
                        place which can only spring from a high sense of individuality. Paris is
                        supposed to provide nothing better than the Caf de Paris, in so far as food
                             is concerned. It is as good a place to go
                        for dinner as the city provides.
                    It amuses me now when I think of how the managerial ability of Barfleur had
                        been working through all this. As the program had been arranged in his mind,
                        I was to take the elder of the two ladies as my partner and he had reserved
                        the younger for himself. As a matter of fact they were really equally pretty
                        and charming and I was interested in both until, after a few parleys and
                        when I had exchanged a few laughing signs with the younger, he informed me
                        that she was really closely tied up with some one else and was not
                        available. This I really did not believe; but it did not make any particular
                        difference. I turned my attention to the elder who was quite as vivacious,
                        if not quite so forceful as her younger sister. I never knew what it meant
                        before to sit in a company of this kind, welcome as a friend, looked to for
                        gaiety as a companion and admirer, and yet not able to say a word in the
                        language of the occasion. There were certain words which could be quickly
                        acquired on an occasion of this kind, such as "beautiful,"
                        "charming," "very delightful," and so
                        on, for which Barfleur gave me the French equivalent, and then I could make
                        complimentary remarks which he would translate for all, and the ladies would
                        say things in reply which would come to me by the same medium. It went gaily
                        enough for the conversation would not have been of a high order if I had
                        been able to speak French. Barfleur objected to being used constantly as an
                        interpreter, and when he became stubborn and chattered gaily without
                        stopping to explain, I was compelled to fall back on the resources of looks
                        and smiles and gestures. It interested me to see how quick these women were
                        to adapt themselves to the difficulties of the situation. They were
                        constantly laughing and chaffing between themselves looking at  me and saying obviously flattering things,
                        and then laughing at my discomfiture in not being able to understand. The
                        elder explained what certain objects were by lifting them up and insisting
                        on the French name. Barfleur was constantly telling me of the compliments
                        they made and how sad they thought it was that I could not speak French. We
                        departed finally for the Folies-Bergre where the newest sensation of Paris,
                        Mistinguett, was playing. She proved to be a brilliant hoyden to look upon;
                        a gay, slim, yellow-haired tomboy who seemed to fascinate the large audience
                        by her boyish manners and her wayward air. There was a brilliant chorus in
                        spangled silks and satins, and finally a beautiful maiden without any
                        clothing at all who was cloaked by the soldiery of the stage before she had
                        half crossed it. The vaudeville acts were about as good as they are
                        anywhere. I did not think that the performance was any better than one might
                        see in one or two places in New York, but of course the humor was much
                        broader. Now and then one of their remarkable bans mots
                        was translated for me by Barfleur just to give me an inkling of the
                        character of the place. Back of the seats was a great lobby or promenade
                        where a fragment of the demimonde of Paris was congregated beautiful
                        creatures, in many instances, and as unconventional as you please. I was
                        particularly struck with the smartness of their costumes and the cheerful
                        character of their faces. The companion type in London and New York is
                        somewhat colder-looking. Their eyes snapped with Gallic intelligence, and
                        they walked as though the whole world held their point of view and no other.
                    From here at midnight we left for the Abbaye Thlme; and there I encountered
                        the best that Paris has to show in the way of that gaiety and color and
                        beauty and smartness for which it is famous. One  really ought to say a great deal about the Abbaye Thlme,
                        because it is the last word, the quintessence of midnight excitement and
                        international savoir faire. The Russian and the Brazilian,
                        the Frenchman, the American, the Englishman, the German and the Italian all
                        meet here on common ground. I saw much of restaurant life in Paris while I
                        was there, but nothing better than this. Like the Caf de Paris it was small
                        very small when compared to restaurants of similar repute in New York and
                        London. I fancy it was not more than sixty feet square only it was not
                        square but pentagonal, almost circular. The tables, to begin with, went
                        round the walls, with seats which had the wall for a back; and then, as the
                        guests poured in, the interior space was filled up with tables which were
                        brought in for the purpose; and, later in the morning, when the guests began
                        to leave, these tables were taken out again, and the space devoted to
                        dancing and entertainers.
                    As in the Caf de Paris I noticed that it was not so much the quality of the
                        furnishings as the spirit of the place which was important. This latter was
                        compounded of various elements success, perfection of service, absolute
                        distinction of cooking, and lastly the subtlety and magnetism of sex which
                        is capitalized and used in Paris as it is nowhere else in the world. I never
                        actually realized until I stepped into this restaurant what it is that draws
                        a certain moneyed element to Paris. The Tomb of Napoleon and the Panthon and
                        the Louvre are not the significant attractions of that important city. Those
                        things have their value they constitute an historical and artistic element
                        that is appealing, romantic and forceful. But over and above that there is
                        something else and that is sex. I did not learn what I am going to say now
                        until later, but it might as well be said here, for it illustrates the point
                        exactly. A little experience and inquiry  in
                        Paris quickly taught me that the owners and managers of the more successful
                        restaurants encourage and help to sustain a certain type of woman whose
                        presence is desirable. She must be young, beautiful, or attractive, and
                        above all things possessed of temperament. A woman can rise in the caf and
                        restaurant world of Paris quite as she can on the stage; and she can easily
                        graduate from the Abbaye Thlme and Maxim's to the stage, though the
                        path is villainous. On the other hand, the stage contributes freely to the
                        atmosphere of Maxim's, the Abbaye Thlme, and other restaurants of
                        their kind. A large number of the figures seen here and at the Folies-Bergre
                        and other places of the same type, are interchangeable. They are in the
                        restaurants when they are not on the stage, and they are on the stage when
                        they are not in the restaurants. They rise or fall by a world of strange
                        devices, and you can hear brilliant or ghastly stories illustrating either
                        conclusion. Paris this aspect of it is a perfect maelstrom of sex; and it is
                        sustained by the wealth and the curiosity of the stranger, as well as the
                        Frenchman.
                    The Abbaye Thlme on this occasion presented a brilliant scene. The carpet, as
                        I recall it, was a rich green velvet; the walls a lavender-white. From the
                        ceiling six magnificently prismed electroliers were suspended three glowing
                        with a clear peach-blow hue and three with a brilliant white. Outside a
                        small railing near the door several negro singers, a mandolin and a
                        guitar-player, several stage dancers, and others were congregated. A perfect
                        storm of people was pouring through the doors all with their tables
                        previously arranged for. Out in the lobby, where a January wind was blowing,
                        you could hear a wild uproar of slamming taxi doors, and the calls of
                        doormen and chauffeurs getting their vehicles in and out of the way.  The company generally, as on all such
                        occasions, was on the qui vive to see who else were present and what the
                        general spirit of the occasion was to be. Instantly I detected a number of
                        Americans; three amazingly beautiful English women, such as I never saw in
                        England, and their escorts; a few Spaniards or South Americans; and, after
                        that, a variety of individuals whom I took to be largely French, although it
                        was impossible to tell. The English women interested me because, during all
                        my stay in Europe, I never saw three other women quite so beautiful, and
                        because, during all my stay in England, I scarcely saw a good-looking
                        English woman. Barfleur suggested that they were of that high realm of
                        fashion which rarely remains in London during the winter season when I was
                        there; that if I came again in May or June and went to the races I would see
                        plenty of them. Their lovely hair was straw-colored and their cheeks and
                        foreheads a faint pink and cream. Their arms and shoulders were delightfully
                        bare, and they carried themselves with amazing hauteur. By one
                        o'clock, when the majority of the guests had arrived, this room
                        fairly shimmered with white silks and satins, white arms and shoulders,
                        roses in black hair and blue and lavender ribbons fastened about coiffures
                        of lighter complexion. There were jewels in plenty opals and amethysts and
                        turquoises and rubies and there was a perfect artillery of champagne corks.
                        Every table was attended by its silver bucket of ice; and the mandolins and
                        guitars in their crowded angle were strumming mightily.
                    I speculated interestedly as we seated ourselves as to what drew all these
                        people from all parts of the world to see this, to be here together.
                        Barfleur was eager to come here first and to have me see this, without
                        delay. I do not know where you could go, and for a hundred  francs see more of really amazing feminine
                        beauty. I do not know where for the same money you could buy the same
                        atmosphere of lightness and gaiety and enthusiasm. This place was fairly
                        vibrating with a wild desire to live. I fancy the majority of those who were
                        here for the first time particularly of the young would tell you that they
                        would rather be here than in any other spot you could name. The place had a
                        peculiar glitter of beauty which was compounded by the managers with great
                        skill. The waiters were all of them deft, swift, suave, good-looking; the
                        dancers who stepped out on the floor after a few moments were of an
                        orchid-like Spanish type ruddy, brown, full-bodied, black-haired,
                        black-eyed. They had on dresses that were as close fitting as the scales of
                        a fish and that glittered with the same radiance. They waved and rattled and
                        clashed castanets and tambourines and danced wildly and sinuously to and fro
                        among the tables. Some of them sang, or voices accompanied them from the
                        raised platform devoted to music.
                    After a while red, blue, pink and green balloons were introduced, anchored to
                        the champagne bottles, and allowed to float gaily in the air. Paper parcels
                        of small paste balls of all colors, as light as feathers, were distributed
                        for the guests to throw at one another. In ten minutes a wild artillery
                        battle was raging. Young girls were up on their feet, their hands full of
                        these colored weapons, pelting the male strangers of their selection. You
                        would see tall Englishmen and Americans exchanging a perfect volley of
                        colored spheres with girls of various nationalities, laughing, chattering,
                        calling, screaming. The cocotte in all her dazzling radiance was here
                        exquisitely dressed, her white arms shimmering, perfectly willing to strike
                        up an understanding with the admirer who was pelting her.
                    
                    After a time, when the audience had worn itself through fever and frenzy to
                        satisfaction or weariness, or both, a few of the tables were cleared away
                        and the dancing began, occasional guests joining. There were charming dances
                        in costume from Russia, from Scotland, from Hungary, and from Spain. I had
                        the wonder of seeing an American girl rise from her table and dance with
                        more skill and grace than the employed talent. A wine-enthused Englishman
                        took the floor, a handsome youth of twenty-six or eight, and remained there
                        gaily prancing about from table to table, dancing alone or with whomsoever
                        would welcome him. What looked like a dangerous argument started at one time
                        because some high-mettled Brazilian considered that he had been insulted. A
                        cordon of waiters and the managers soon adjusted that. It was between three
                        and four in the morning when we finally left; and I was very tired.
                    It was decided that we should meet for dinner; and since it was almost
                        daylight I was glad when we had seen our ladies to their apartment and
                        returned to the hotel.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXII
                    A MORNING IN PARIS
                    
                        I SHALL never forget my first morning in Paris the morning
                        that I woke up after about two hours' sleep or less, prepared to
                        put in a hard day at sightseeing because Barfleur had a program which must
                        be adhered to, and because he could only be with me until Monday, when he
                        had to return. It was a bright day, fortunately, a little hazy and chill,
                        but agreeable. I looked out of the window of my very comfortable room on the
                        fifth floor which gave out on a balcony overhanging the Rue St. Honor, and
                        watched the crowd of French people below coming to shop or to work. It would
                        be hard to say what makes the difference between a crowd of Englishmen and a
                        crowd of Frenchmen, but there is a difference. It struck me that these
                        French men and women walked faster and that their every movement was more
                        spirited than either that of the English or the Americans. They looked more
                        like Americans, though, than like the English; and they were much more
                        cheerful than either, chatting and talking as they came. I was interested to
                        see whether I could make the maid understand that I wanted coffee and rolls
                        without talking French, but the wants of American travelers are an old story
                        to French maids; and no sooner did I say caf and make the
                        sign of drinking from a cup than she said, "Oh, oui, oui, oui oh,
                        oui, oui, oui!" and disappeared. Presently the coffee was brought
                        me and rolls and butter and hot milk; and I ate my breakfast as I dressed.
                    About nine o'clock Barfleur arrived with his program. I was to walk
                        in the Tuileries which is close at hand  while
                        he got a shave. We were to go for a walk in the Rue de Rivoli as far as a
                        certain bootmaker's, who was to make me a pair of shoes for the
                        Riviera. Then we were to visit a haberdasher's or two; and after
                        that go straight about the work of sight-seeing visiting the old bookstalls
                        on the Seine, the churches of St. tienne-du-Mont, Notre-Dame,
                        Sainte-Chapelle, stopping at Foyot's for lunch; and thereafter
                        regulating our conduct by the wishes of several guests who were to appear
                        Miss N. and Mr. McG., two neo-impressionist artists, and a certain Mme. de
                        B., who would not mind showing me around Paris if I cared for her company.
                    We started off quite briskly, and my first adventure in Paris led me straight
                        to the gardens of the Tuileries, lying west of the Louvre. If any one wanted
                        a proper introduction to Paris, I should recommend this above all others.
                        Such a noble piece of gardening as this is the best testimony France has to
                        offer of its taste, discrimination, and sense of the magnificent. I should
                        say, on mature thought, that we shall never have anything like it in
                        America. We have not the same lightness of fancy. And, bsides, the Tuileries
                        represents a classic period. I recall walking in here and being struck at
                        once with the magnificent proportions of it all the breadth and stately
                        lengths of its walks, the utter wonder and charm of its statuary snow-white
                        marble nudes standing out on the green grass and marking the circles,
                        squares and paths of its entire length. No such charm and beauty could be
                        attained in America because we would not permit the public use of the nude
                        in this fashion. Only the fancy of a monarch could create a realm such as
                        this; and the Tuileries and the Place du Carrousel and the Place de la
                        Concorde and the whole stretch of lovely tree-lined walks and drives that
                        lead to the Arc de Triomphe and give into the Bois de Boulogne speak  loudly of a noble fancy untrammeled by the
                        dictates of an inartistic public opinion. I was astonished to find how much
                        of the heart of Paris is devoted to public usage in this manner. It
                        corresponds, in theory at least, to the space devoted to Central Park in New
                        York but this is so much more beautiful, or at least it is so much more in
                        accord with the spirit of Paris. These splendid walks, devoted solely to the
                        idling pedestrian, and set with a hundred sculptural fancies in marble, show
                        the gay, pleasure-loving character of the life which created them. The grand
                        monarchs of France knew what beauty was, and they had the courage and the
                        taste to fulfil their desires. I got just an inkling of it all in the
                        fifteen minutes that I walked here in the morning sun, waiting for Barfleur
                        to get his shave.
                    From here we went to a Paris florist's where Madame pinned bright
                            boutonnires on our coats, and thence to the
                        bootmaker's where Madame again assisted her husband in the conduct
                        of his business. Everywhere I went in Paris I was struck by this charming
                        unity in the conduct of business between husband and wife and son and
                        daughter. We talk much about the economic independence of women in America.
                        It seems to me that the French have solved it in the only way that it can be
                        solved. Madame helps her husband in his business and they make a success of
                        it together. Monsieur Galoyer took the measurements for my shoes, but Madame
                        entered them in a book; and to me the shop was fifty times as charming for
                        her presence. She was pleasingly dressed, and the shop looked as though it
                        had experienced the tasteful touches of a woman's hand. It was
                        clean and bright and smart, and smacked of good housekeeping; and this was
                        equally true of bookstalls, haberdashers' shops, art-stores,
                        coffee-rooms, and places of public sale generally. Wherever Madame was, and
                        she looked nice,  there was a nice store; and
                        Monsieur looked as fat and contented as could reasonably be expected under
                        the circumstances.
                    From Galoyer's we struck forth to Paris proper, its most interesting
                        features, and I recall now with delight how fresh and trig and spick it all
                        seemed. Paris has an air, a presence, from the poorest quarter of the
                        Charenton district to the perfections of the Bois and the region about the
                        Arc de Triomphe. It chanced that the day was bright and I saw the Seine, as
                        bright as new buttons glimmering over the stones of its shallow banks and
                        racing madly. If not a majestic stream it is at least a gay and dashing one
                        quick-tempered, rapid-flowing, artistically walled, crossed by a score of
                        handsome bridges, and ornamented in every possible way. How much the French
                        have made of so little in the way of a river! It is not very wide about
                        one-half as wide as the Thames at Blackfriars Bridge and not so wide as the
                        Harlem River which makes Manhattan an island. I followed it from city wall
                        to city wall one day, from Charenton to Issy, and found every inch of it
                        delightful. I was never tired of looking at the wine barges near Charenton;
                        the little bathing pavilions and passenger boats in the vicinity of the
                        Louvre; the brick-barges, hay-barges, coal-barges and Heaven knows what else
                        plying between the city's heart and points downstream past Issy. It
                        gave me the impression of being one of the brightest, cleanest rivers in the
                        world a river on a holiday. I saw it once at Issy at what is known in Paris
                        as the "green hour" which is five o'clock when
                        the sun was going down and a deep palpable fragrance wafted from a vast
                        manufactory of perfume filled the air. Men were poling boats of hay and
                        laborers in their great wide-bottomed corduroy trousers, blue shirts and
                        inimitable French caps, were trudging homewards, and I felt as though the
                        world had 
                        
                            The French have made much of the Seine
                        
                        
                         nothing to offer Paris which it did not
                        already have even the joy of simple labor amid great beauty. I could have
                        settled in a small house in Issy and worked as a laborer in a perfume
                        factory, carrying my dinner pail with me every morning, with a right
                        good-will or such was the mood of the moment.
                    This morning, on our way to St.-tienne-du-Mont and the cathedral, we examined
                        the bookstalls along the Seine and tried to recall off-hand the interesting
                        comment that had been made on them by great authors and travelers. My poor
                        wit brought back only the references of Balzac; but Barfleur was livelier
                        with thoughts from Rousseau to George Moore. They have a magnificent
                        literary history; but it is only because they are on the banks of the Seine,
                        in the center of this whirling pageant of life, that they are so delighted.
                        To enjoy them one has to be in an idle mood and love out-of-doors; for they
                        consist of a dusty row of four-legged boxes with lids coming quite to your
                        chest in height, and reminding one of those high-legged counting-tables at
                        which clerks sit on tall stools making entries in their ledgers. These boxes
                        are old and paintless and weather-beaten; and at night the very
                        dusty-looking keepers, who from early morning until dark have had their
                        shabby-backed wares spread out where dust and sunlight and wind and rain can
                        attack them, pack them in the body of the box on which they are lying and
                        close the lid. You can always see an idler or two here perhaps many idlers
                        between the Quai d'Orsay and the Quai Voltaire.
                    We made our way through the Rue Mazarin and Rue de l'Ancienne Comdie
                        into that region which surrounds the cole de Medecin and the Luxembourg. In
                        his enthusiastic way Barfleur tried to indicate to me that I was in the most
                        historic section of the left bank of the Seine, where were
                        St.-tienne-du-Mont, the Panthon, the Sorbonne,  the Luxembourg, the cole des Beaux-Arts and the Latin Quarter. We came
                        for a little way into the Boulevard St.-Michel, and there I saw my first
                        artists in velvet suits, long hair, and broad-brimmed hats; but I was told
                        that they were poseurs the kind of artist who is so by profession, not by
                        accomplishment. They were poetic-looking youths the two that I saw swinging
                        along together with pale faces and slim hands. I was informed that the type
                        had almost entirely disappeared and that the art student of to-day prefers
                        to be distinctly inconspicuous. From what I saw of them later I can confirm
                        this; for the schools which I visited revealed a type of boy and girl who,
                        while being romantic enough, in all conscience, were nevertheless
                        inconspicuously dressed and very simple and off-hand in their manner. I
                        visited this region later with artists who had made a name for themselves in
                        the radical world, and with students who were hoping to make a name for
                        themselves sitting in their cafs, examining their studios, and sensing the
                        atmosphere of their streets and public amusements. There is an art
                        atmosphere, strong and clear, compounded of romance, emotion, desire, love
                        of beauty and determination of purpose, which is thrilling to experience
                        even vicariously.
                    Paris is as young in its mood as any city in the world. It is as wildly
                        enthusiastic as a child. I noticed here, this morning, the strange fact of
                        old battered-looking fellows singing to themselves, which I never noticed
                        anywhere else in this world. Age sits lightly on the Parisian, I am sure;
                        and youth is a mad fantasy, an exciting realm of romantic dreams. The
                        Parisian from the keeper of a market-stall to the prince of the money world,
                        or of art wants to live gaily, briskly, laughingly, and he will not let the
                        necessity of earning his living deny him. I felt it in the churches, the
                        depots,  the department stores, the theaters,
                        the restaurants, the streets a wild, keen desire for life with the blood and
                        the body to back it up. It must be in the soil and the air, for Paris sings.
                        It is like poison in the veins, and I felt myself growing positively giddy
                        with enthusiasm. I believe that for the first six months Paris would be a
                        disease from which one would suffer greatly and recover slowly. After that
                        you would settle down to live the life you found there in contentment and
                        with delight; but you would not be in so much danger of wrecking your very
                        mortal body and your uncertainly immortal soul.
                    I was interested in this neighborhood, as we hurried through and away from it
                        to the Ile-de-la-Cit and Notre-Dame, as being not only a center for art
                        strugglers of the Latin Quarter, but also for students of the Sorbonne. I
                        was told that there were thousands upon thousands of them from various
                        countries eight thousand from Russia alone. How they live my informant did
                        not seem to know, except that in the main they lived very badly. Baths,
                        clean linen, and three meals a day, according to him, were not at all
                        common; and in the majority of instances they starve their way through,
                        going back to their native countries to take up the practice of law,
                        medicine, politics and other professions. After Oxford and the American
                        universities, this region and the Sorbonne itself, I found anything but
                        attractive.
                    The church of St.-tienne-du-Mont is as fine as possible, a type of the kind
                        of architecture which is no type and ought to have a new name modern would
                        be as good as any. It has a creamish-gray effect, exceedingly ornate, with
                        all the artificery of a jewel box.
                    The Panthon seemed strangely bare to me, large and spacious but cold. The men
                        who are not there as much as the men who are, made it seem somewhat
                        unrepresentative  to me as a national
                        mausoleum. It is hard to make a national burying-ground that will appeal to
                        all.
                    Notre-Dame after Canterbury and Amiens seems a little heavy but as contrasted
                        with St. Paul's in London and anything existing in America, it
                        seemed strangely wonderful. I could not help thinking of Hugo's
                        novel and of St. Louis and Napoleon and the French Revolution in connection
                        with it. It is so heavy and somber and so sadly great. The Htel Dieu, the
                        Palais de Justice, Sainte-Chapelle and the Pont-Saint-Michel all in the same
                        neighborhood interested me much, particularly Sainte-Chapelle to me one of
                        the most charming exteriors and interiors I saw in Paris. It is exquisite
                        this chapel which was once the scene of the private prayers of a king. This
                        whole neighborhood somehow from the bookstalls to Sainte-Chapelle suggested
                        Balzac and Hugo and the flavor of this world as they presented it, was in my
                        mind.
                    And now there was luncheon at Foyot's, a little restaurant near the
                        Luxembourg and the Muse de Cluny, where the wise in the matter of food love
                        to dine and where, as usual, Barfleur was at his best. The French, while
                        discarding show in many instances entirely, and allowing their restaurant
                        chambers to look as though they had been put together with an effort,
                        nevertheless attain a perfection of atmosphere which is astonishing. For the
                        life of me I could not tell why this little restaurant seemed so bright, for
                        there was nothing smart about it when you examined it in detail; and so I
                        was compelled to attribute this impression to the probably all-pervading
                        temperament of the owner. Always, in these cases, there is a man (or a
                        woman) quite remarkable for his point of view. Otherwise you could not take
                        such simple appointments and make them into anything so pleasing and so
                        individual. A luncheon which had been ordered by  telephone was now served; and at the beginning of its
                        gastronomic wonders Mr. McG. and Miss N. arrived.
                    I shall not soon forget the interesting temperaments of these two; for even
                        more than great institutions, persons who come reasonably close to you make
                        up the atmosphere of a city. Mr. McG. was a solid, sandy, steady-eyed
                        Scotchman who looked as though, had he not been an artist, he might have
                        been a kilted soldier, swinging along with the enviable Scotch stride. Miss
                        N. was a delightfully Parisianized American, without the slightest
                        affectation, however, so far as I could make out, of either speech or
                        manner. She was pleasingly good-looking, with black hair, a healthy, rounded
                        face and figure, and a cheerful, good-natured air. There was no sense of
                        either that aggressiveness or superiority which so often characterizes the
                        female artist. We launched at once upon a discussion of Paris, London and
                        New York and upon the delights of Paris and the progress of the
                        neo-impressionist cult. I could see plainly that these two did not care to
                        force their connection with that art development on my attention; but I was
                        interested to know of it. There was something so solid and self-reliant
                        about Mr. McG. that before the meal was over I had taken a fancy to him. He
                        had the least suggestion of a Scotch burr in his voice which might have said
                        "awaw "instead of away and "doon
                        "instead of down; but it resulted in nothing so broad as that. They
                        immediately gave me lists of restaurants that I must see in the Latin
                        Quarter and asked me to come with them to the Caf d'Harcourt and to
                        Bullier's to dance and to some of the brasseries to see what they
                        were like. Between two and three Mr. McG. left because of an errand, and
                        Barfleur and I accompanied Miss N. to her studio close by the gardens of the
                        Luxembourg. This public garden which, not unlike the Tuileries on the other
                        side of  the Seine, was set with charming
                        statues, embellished by a magnificent fountain, and alive with French
                        nursemaids and their charges, idling Parisians in cutaways and derbies, and
                        a smart world of pedestrians generally impressed me greatly. It was lovely.
                        The wonder of Paris, as I was discovering, was that, walk where you would,
                        it was hard to escape the sense of breadth, space, art, history, romance and
                        a lovely sense of lightness and enthusiasm for life.
                    Miss N.'s studio is in the Rue Defert-Rochereau. In calling here I
                        had my first taste of the Paris concierge, the janitress who has an eye on
                        all those who come and go and to whom all not having keys must apply. In
                        many cases, as I learned, keys are not given to the outer gate or door. One
                        must ring and be admitted. This gives this person a complete espionage over
                        the affairs of all the tenants, mail, groceries, guests, purchases,
                        messagesanything and everything. If you have a charming concierge, it is
                        well and good; if not, not. The thought of anything so offensive as a spying
                        concierge irritated me greatly and I found myself running forward in my mind
                        picking fights with some possible concierge who might at some remote date
                        possibly trouble me. Of such is the contentious disposition.
                    The studio of Mr. McG., in the Boulevard Raspail, overlooks a lovely gardena
                        heavenly place set with trees and flowers and reminiscent of an older day in
                        the bits of broken stone-work lying about, and suggesting the architecture
                        of a bygone period. His windows, reaching from floor to ceiling and
                        supplemented by exterior balconies, were overhung by trees. In both studios
                        were scores of canvases done in the neo-impressionistic style which
                        interested me profoundly.
                    It is one thing to see neo-impressionism hung upon the walls of a gallery in
                        London, or disputed over in a West  End
                        residence. It is quite another to come upon it fresh from the easel in the
                        studio of the artist, or still in process of production, defended by every
                        thought and principle of which the artist is capable. In Miss N.'s
                        studio were a series of decorative canvases intended for the walls of a
                        great department store in America which were done in the raw reds, yellows,
                        blues and greens of the neo-impressionist cultflowers which stood out with
                        the coarse distinctness of hollyhocks and sunflowers; architectural outlines
                        which were as sharp as those of rough buildings, and men and women whose
                        details of dress and feature were characterized by colors which by the
                        uncultivated eye would be pronounced unnatural.
                    For me they had an immense appeal if for nothing more than that they
                        represented a development and an individual point of view. It is so hard to
                        break tradition.
                    It was the same in the studio of Mr. McG. to which we journeyed after some
                        three-quarters of an hour. Of the two painters, the man seemed to me the
                        more forceful. Miss N. worked in a softer mood, with more of what might be
                        called an emotional attitude towards life.
                    During all this, Barfleur was in the heyday of his Parisian glory, and
                        appropriately cheerful. We took a taxi through singing streets lighted by a
                        springtime sun and came finally to the Restaurant Prunier where it was
                        necessary for him to secure a table and order dinner in advance; and thence
                        to the Thtre des Capucines in the Rue des Capucines, where tickets for a
                        farce had to be secured, and thence to a bar near the Avenue de
                        l'Opra where we were to meet the previously mentioned Mme. de B.
                        who, out of the goodness of her heart, was to help entertain me while I was
                        in the city.
                    This remarkable woman who by her beauty, simplicity, utter frankness, and
                        moody immorality would shock the average woman into a deadly fear of life
                        and make  a horror of what seems a gaudy
                        pleasure world to some, quite instantly took my fancy. Yet I think it was
                        more a matter of Mme. de B.'s attitude, than it was the things
                        which she did, which made it so terrible. But that is a long story.
                    We came to her out of the whirl of the "green hour," when
                        the Paris boulevards in this vicinity were fairly swarming with peoplethe
                        gayest world I have ever seen. We have enormous crowds in New York, but they
                        seem to be going somewhere very much more definitely than in Paris. With us
                        there is an eager, strident, almost objectionable effort to get home or to
                        the theater or to the restaurant which one can easily resentit is so
                        inconsiderate and indifferent. In London you do not feel that there are any
                        crowds that are going to the theaters or the restaurants; and if they are,
                        they are not very cheerful about it; they are enduring life; they have none
                        of the lightness of the Parisian world. I think it is all explained by the
                        fact that Parisians feel keenly that they are living now and that they wish
                        to enjoy themselves as they go. The American and the Englishmanthe
                        Englishman much more than the Americanhave decided that they are going to
                        live in the future. Only the American is a little angry about his decision
                        and the Englishman a little meek or patient. They both feel that life is
                        intensely grim. But the Parisian, while he may feel or believe it, decides
                        wilfully to cast it off. He lives by the way, out of books, restaurants,
                        theaters, boulevards, and the spectacle of life generally. The Parisians
                        move briskly, and they come out where they can see each otherout into the
                        great wide-sidewalked boulevards and the thousands upon thousands of cafs;
                        and make themselves comfortable and talkative and gay on the streets. It is
                        so obvious that everybody is having a good timenot trying 
                        
                            One of the thousands upon thousands of cafs on the boulevards of
                                Paris
                        
                        
                         to have it; that they are enjoying the
                        wine-like air, the cordials and apritifs of the brasseries, the net-like movements of the cabs, the
                        dancing lights of the road-ways, and the flare of the shops. It may be chill
                        or drizzling in Paris, but you scarcely feel it. Rain can scarcely drive the
                        people off the streets. Literally it does not. There are crowds whether it
                        rains or not, and they are not despondent. This particular hour that brought
                        us to G.'s Bar was essentially thrilling, and I was interested to
                        see what Mme. de B. was like.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIII
                    THREE GUIDES
                    
                        IT was only by intuition, and by asking many questions,
                        that at times I could extract the significance of certain places from
                        Barfleur as quickly as I wished. He was always reticent or a little cryptic
                        in his allusions. In this instance I gathered rapidly however that this bar
                        was a very extraordinary little restaurant presided over by a woman of a
                        most pleasant and practical type. She could not have been much over
                        fortybuxom, good-looking, self-reliant, efficient. She moved about the two
                        rooms which constituted her restaurant, in so far as the average diner was
                        concerned, with an air of considerable social importance. Her dresses, as I
                        noticed on my several subsequent visits, were always sober, but in excellent
                        taste. About this time of day the two rooms were a little dark, the electric
                        lights being reserved for the more crowded hours. Yet there were always a
                        few people here. This evening when we entered I noticed a half-dozen men and
                        three or four young women lounging here in a preliminary way, consuming apritifs and chatting sociably. I made out by degrees that
                        the mistress of this place had a following of a kind, in the Parisian scheme
                        of thingsthat certain men and women came here for reasons of
                        good-fellowship; and that she would take a certain type of struggling
                        maiden, if she were good-looking and ambitious and smart, under her wing.
                        The girl would have to know how to dress well, to be able to carry herself
                        with an air; and when money was being spent very freely by an admirer it
                        might as well be spent at this  bar on
                        occasion as anywhere else. There was obviously an entente
                            cordiale between Madame G. and all the young women who came in
                        here. They seemed so much at home that it was quite like a family party.
                        Everybody appeared to be genial, cheerful, and to know everybody else. To
                        enter here was to feel as though you had lived in Paris for years.
                    While we are sitting at a table sipping a brandy and soda, enter Mme. de B.,
                        the brisk, genial, sympathetic French personage whose voice on the instant
                        gave me a delightful impression of her. It was the loveliest voice I have
                        ever heard, soft and musical, a colorful voice touched with both gaiety and
                        sadness. Her eyes were light blue, her hair brown and her manner sinuous and
                        insinuating. She seemed to have the spirit of a delightfully friendly collie
                        dog or child and all the gaiety and alertness that goes with either.
                    After I had been introduced, she laughed, and putting aside her muff and
                        stole, shook herself into a comfortable position in a corner and accepted a
                        brandy and soda. She was so interested for the moment, exchanging whys and
                        wherefores with Barfleur, that I had a chance to observe her keenly. In a
                        moment she turned to me and wanted to know whether I knew either of two
                        American authors whom she knewmen of considerable repute. Knowing them both
                        very well, it surprised me to think that she knew them. She seemed, from the
                        way she spoke, to have been on the friendliest terms with both of them; and
                        any one by looking at her could have understood why they should have taken
                        such an interest in her.
                    "Now, you know, that Mistaire N., he is very nice. I was very fond
                        of him. And Mistaire R., he is clever, don't you think?"
                    I admitted at once that they were both very able men  and that I was glad that she knew them. She informed me that
                        she had known Mr. R. and Mr. N. in London and that she had there perfected
                        her English, which was very good indeed. Barfleur explained in full who I
                        was and how long I would be in Paris and that he had written her from
                        America because he wanted her to show me some attention during my stay in
                        Paris.
                    If Mme. de B. had been of a somewhat more calculating type I fancy that, with
                        her intense charm of face and manner and her intellect and voice, she would
                        have been very successful. I gained the impression that she had been on the
                        stage in some small capacity; but she had been too diffidentnot really
                        brazen enoughfor the grim world in which the French actress rises. I soon
                        found that Mme. de B. was a charming blend of emotion, desire, and
                        refinement which had strayed into the wrong field. She would have done
                        better in literature or music or art; and she seemed fitted by her moods and
                        her understanding to be a light in any one of them or all. Some temperaments
                        are so missing by a fraction what they would give all the world to have. It
                        is the little things that do itthe fractions, the bits, the capacity for
                        taking pains in little things that make, as so many have said, the
                        difference between success and failure and it is true.
                    I shall never forget how she looked at me, quite in the spirit of a gay
                        uncertain child, and how quickly she made me feel that we would get along
                        very well together. "Why, yes," she said quite easily in
                        her soft voice, "I will go about with you, although I would not
                        know what is best to see. But I shall be here, and if you want to come for
                        me we can see things together." Suddenly she reached over and took
                        my hand and squeezed it genially, as though to seal the bargain. We had more
                        drinks to celebrate this rather festive occasion;  and then Mme. de B., promising to join us at the theater, went
                        away. It was high time then to dress for dinner; and so we returned to the
                        hotel. We ate a companionable meal, watching the Parisian and his lady love
                        (or his wife) arrive in droves and cline with that gusto and enthusiasm
                        which is so characteristic of the French.
                    When we came out of this theater at half after eleven, Mme. de B. was anxious
                        to return to her apartment, and Barfleur was anxious to give me an extra
                        taste of the varied cafe life of Paris in order that I might be able to
                        contrast and compare intelligently. "If you know where they are and
                        see whether you like them, you can tell whether you want to see any more of
                        themwhich I hope you won't," said he wisely, leading the
                        way through a swirling crowd that was for all the world like a rushing tide
                        of the sea.
                    There are no traffic laws in Paris, so far as I could make out; vehicles
                        certainly have the right-of-way and they go like mad. I have read of the
                        Parisian authorities having imported a London policeman to teach Paris
                        police the art of traffic regulation, but if so, the instruction has been
                        wasted. This night was a bedlam of vehicles and people. A Paris guide, one
                        of the tribe that conducts the morbid stranger through scenes that are
                        supposedly evil, and that I know from observation to be utterly vain,
                        approached us in the Bouelvard des Capucines with the suggestion that he be
                        allowed to conduct us through a realm of filthy sights, some of which he
                        catalogued. I could give a list of them if I thought any human organization
                        would ever print them, or that any individual would ever care to read
                        themwhich I don't. I have indicated before that Barfleur is
                        essentially clean-minded. He is really interested in the art of the
                        demi-mondaine, and the spectacle which their 
                        showy and, to a certain extent, artistic lives present; but no one in this
                        world ever saw more clearly through the shallow make-believe of this realm
                        than he does. He contents himself with admiring the art and the tragedy and
                        the pathos of it. This world of women interests him as a phase of the
                        struggle for existence, and for the artistic pretense which it sometimes
                        compels. To him the vast majority of these women in Paris were
                        artisticwhatever one might say for their morals, their honesty, their
                        brutality and the other qualities which they possess or lack; and whatever
                        they were, life made them soconditions over which their temperaments,
                        understandings and wills had little or no control. He is an amazingly
                        tolerant manone of the most tolerant I have ever known, and kindly in his
                        manner and intention.
                    Nevertheless, he has an innate horror of the purely physical when it descends
                        to inartistic brutality. There is much of that in Paris; and these guides
                        advertise it; but it is filth especially arranged for the stranger. I fancy
                        the average Parisian knows nothing about it; and if he does, he has a
                        profound contempt for it. So has the well-intentioned stranger, but there is
                        always an audience for this sort of thing. So when this guide approached us
                        with the proposition to show us a selected line of vice, Barfleur took him
                        genially in hand. "Stop a moment, now," he said, with his
                        high hat on the back of his head, his fur coat expansively open, and his
                        monocled eye fixing the intruder with an inquiring gaze, "tell me
                        one thinghave you a mother?"
                    The small Jew who was the industrious salesman for this particular type of
                        ware looked his astonishment.
                    They are used to all sorts of set-backsthese particular guidesfor they
                        encounter all sorts of people,  severely moral
                        and the reverse; and I fancy on occasion they would be soundly trounced if
                        it were not for the police who stand in with them and receive a modicum for
                        their protection. They certainly learn to understand something of the type
                        of man who will listen to their proposition; for I have never seen them more
                        than ignored and I have frequently seen them talked to in an off-hand way,
                        though I was pleased to note that their customers were few.
                    This particular little Jew had a quizzical, screwed-up expression on his
                        face, and did not care to answer the question at first; but resumed his
                        announcement of his various delights and the price it would all cost.
                    "Wait, wait, wait," insisted Barfleur, "answer my
                        question. Have you a mother?"
                    "What has that got to do with it?"asked the guide.
                        "Of course I have a mother."
                    "Where is she?" demanded Barfleur authoritatively.
                    "She 's at home," replied the guide, with an air
                        of mingled astonishment, irritation and a desire not to lose a customer.
                    "Does she know that you are out here on the streets of Paris doing
                        what you are doing to-night?" he continued with a very noble air.
                    The man swore under his breath.
                    "Answer me," persisted Barfleur, still fixing him solemnly
                        through his monocle. "Does she?"
                    "Why, no, of course she does n't," replied the Jew
                        sheepishly.
                    "Would you want her to know?" This in sepulchral tones.
                    "No, I don't think so."
                    "Have you a sister?"
                    "Yes."
                    
                    "Would you want her to know?"
                    "I don't know," replied the guide defiantly.
                        "She might know anyhow."
                    "Tell me truly, if she did not know, would you want her to
                        know?"
                    The poor vender looked as if he had got into some silly, inexplicable mess
                        from which he would be glad to free himself; but he did not seem to have
                        sense enough to walk briskly away and leave us. Perhaps he did not care to
                        admit defeat so easily.
                    "No, I suppose not," replied the interrogated vainly.
                    "There you have it," exclaimed Barfleur triumphantly.
                        "You have a motheryou would not want her to know. You have a
                        sisteryou would not want her to know. And yet you solicit me here on the
                        street to see things which I do not want to see or know. Think of your poor
                        gray-headed mother," he exclaimed grandiloquently, and with a mock
                        air of shame and sorrow. "Once, no doubt, you prayed at her knee,
                        an innocent boy yourself."
                    The man looked at him in dull suspicion.
                    "No doubt if she saw you here to-night, selling your manhood for a
                        small sum of money, pandering to the lowest and most vicious elements in
                        life, she would weep bitter tears. And your sisterdon't you think
                        now you had better give up this evil life? Don't you think you had
                        better accept any sort of position and earn an honest living rather than do
                        what you are doing?"
                    "Well, I don't know," said the man. "This
                        living is as good as any other living. I've worked hard to get my
                        knowledge."
                    "Good God, do you call this knowledge?" inquired Barfleur
                        solemnly.
                    "Yes, I do," replied the man. "I 've
                        worked hard to get it."
                    
                    
                        These places were crowded with a gay and festive throng
                    
                    
                    
                    "My poor friend," replied Barfleur, "I pity you.
                        From the bottom of my heart I pity you. You are degrading your life and
                        ruining your soul. Come now, to-morrow is Sunday. The church bells will be
                        ringing. Go to church. Reform your life. Make a new startdo. You will never
                        regret it. Your old mother will be so gladand your sister."
                    "Oh, say," said the man, walking off, "you
                        don't want a guide. You want a church." And he did not
                        even look back.
                    "It is the only way I have of getting rid of them,"
                        commented Barfleur. "They always stop when I begin to talk to them
                        about their mother. They can't stand the thought of their
                        mother."
                    "Very true," I said. "Cut it out now, and come on.
                        You have preached enough. Let us see the worst that Paris has to
                        show." And off we went, arm in arm.
                    Thereafter we visited restaurant after restaurant,high, low, smart, dull,and
                        I can say truly that the strange impression which this world made on me
                        lingers even now. Obviously, when we arrived at Fysher's at twelve
                        o'clock, the fun was just getting under way. Some of these places,
                        like this Bar Fysher, were no larger than a fair-sized room in an apartment,
                        but crowded with a gay and festive throngAmericans, South Americans, English
                        and others. One of the tricks in Paris to make a restaurant successful is to
                        keep it small so that it has an air of overflow and activity. Here at
                        Fysher's Bar, after allowing room for die red-jacketed orchestra,
                        the piano and the waiters, there was scarcely space for the forty or fifty
                        guests who were present. Champagne was twenty francs the bottle and
                        champagne was all they served. It was necessary here, as at all the
                        restaurants, to contribute to the support of the musicians; and if  a strange young woman should sit at your
                        table for a moment and share either the wine or the fruit which would be
                        quickly offered, you would have to pay for that. Peaches were three francs
                        each, and grapes five francs the bunch. It was plain that all these things
                        were offered in order that the house might thrive and prosper. It was so at
                        each and all of them.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIV
                    "THE POISON FLOWER"
                    
                        IT was after this night that Barfleur took his departure
                        for London for two weeks, where business affairs were calling him during
                        which time I was to make myself as idle and gay as I might alone or with the
                        individuals to whom he had introduced me or to whom I had introductions
                        direct. There was so much that I wished to see and that he did not care to
                        see over again with me, having seen it all beforethe Musee de Cluny, for
                        instance, the Louvre, the Luxembourg and so on.
                    The next afternoon after a more or less rambling day I saw him off for London
                        and then I plunged into this treasure world alone.
                    One of the things that seriously impressed me was the never-failing singing
                        air of the city which was everywhere; and another the peculiarly moody
                        atmosphere of the cemetery of Pre-Lachaisethat wonderful world of celebrated
                        deadwho crowd each other like the residents of a narrow city and who make a
                        veritable fanfare of names. What a world! One whole day I idled here over
                        the tombs of Balzac, Daudet, De Musset, Chopin, Rachel, Ablard and Hloisea
                        long, long list of celebrities. My brain fairly reeled with the futility of
                        lifeand finally I came away immensely sad. Another day I visited Versailles
                        and all its splendor with one of the most interesting and amusing Americans
                        I met abroad, a publisher by the name of H, who regaled me with his own
                        naive experiences. I fairly choked at times over his quaint, slangy, amusing
                             comments on things as when at Versailles,
                        in the chambers of Marie Antoinette, he discovered a small secret stair only
                        to remark, "There 's where Louis XVI took a sneak often
                        enough no doubt," or on one of the towers of Notre Dame when to a
                        third person who was present he commented, "There 's your
                        gargoyles, old sox!" Think of the artistic irreverence of it!
                        Concerning a group of buildings which related to the Beaux-Arts I believe he
                        inquired, "What 's the bunch of stuff to the
                        right?" and so it went. But the beauty of Versaillesits stately
                        artificiality!how it all comes back.
                    After two weeks in which I enjoyed myself as much as I ever hope to, studying
                        out the charm and color of Paris for myself, Barfleur returned fresh,
                        interested, ready for the Riviera, ready for more of Paris, ready indeed for
                        anything, I said to myself once more, when I saw himand I was very glad to
                        see him indeed.
                    The personality of Barfleur supplies a homey quality of comfortable
                        companionship. He is so full of a youthful zest to live, and so keen after
                        the shows and customs of the world. I have never pondered why he is so
                        popular with women, or that his friends in different walks of life
                        constitute so great a company. He seems to have known thousands of all
                        sorts, and to be at home under all conditions. That persistent, unchanging
                        atmosphere of "All is well with me," to maintain which is
                        as much a duty as a tradition with him, makes his presence a constant
                        delight.
                    We were soon joined by a small party of friends thereafter: Sir Scorp, who
                        was bound for an extended stay on the Riviera, a sociologist, who was abroad
                        on an important scientific investigation, and the representative of an
                        American publishing house, who was coming to Paris to waylay Mr. Morgan
                        Shuster, late of  Persia, and secure his book.
                        This goodly company descended upon the Hotel Normandy late one Friday
                        afternoon; and it was planned that a party of the whole was to be organized
                        the following night to dine at the Caf de Paris and then to make a round of
                        the lesser known and more picturesque of Parisian resorts.
                    Before this grand pilgrimage to the temples of vice and excitement, however,
                        Barfleur and I spent a remarkable evening wandering from one restaurant to
                        another in an effort to locate a certain Mile. Rillette, a girl who, he had
                        informed me when we first came to Paris, had been one of the most
                        interesting figures of the Folies stage. Four or five years before she had
                        held at the Folies-Bergre much the same position now recently attained by
                        Mistinguett who was just then enthralling Paris in other words, she was the
                        sensation of that stormy world of art and romance of which these restaurants
                        are a part. She was more than that. She had a wonderful mezzo-soprano voice
                        of great color and richness and a spirit for dancing that was Greek in its
                        quality. Barfleur was most anxious that I should get at least a glimpse of
                        this exceptional Parisian type the real spirit of this fast world, your true
                        artistic poison flower, your lovely hooded cobra before she should be too
                        old, or too wretched, to be interesting.
                    We started out to visit G.'s Bar, the Bar Fysher, the Rat Mort,
                        Palmyr's Bar, the Grelot, the Rabelais, in fact the whole list of
                        restaurants and show-places where on occasion she might be expected to be
                        seen. On the way Barfleur recounted bits of her interesting history, her
                        marriages, divorces, vices, drug-habits, a strange category of tendencies
                        that sometimes affect the most vigorous and eager of human temperaments.
                    At one caf, on this expedition, quite by accident apparently, we encountered
                        Miss X., whom I had not seen  since we left
                        Fishguard, and who was here in Paris doing her best to outvie the women of
                        the gay restaurants in the matter of her dresses, her hats, and her beauty.
                        I must say she presented a ravishing spectaclequite as wonderful as any of
                        the other women who were to be seen here; but she lacked, as I was to note,
                        the natural vivacity of the French. We Americans, in spite of our high
                        spirits and our healthy enthusiasm for life, are nevertheless a blend of the
                        English, the German, and some of the sedate nations of the north; and we are
                        inclined to a physical and mental passivity which is not common to the
                        Latins. This Miss X., vivid creature that she was, did not have the
                        spiritual vibration which accompanies the French women. So far as spirit was
                        concerned, she seemed superior to most of the foreign types presentbut the
                        French women are naturally gayer, their eyes brighter, their motions
                        lighter. She gave us at once an account of her adventures since I had seen
                        herwhere she had been living, what places she had visited, and what a good
                        time she was having. I could not help marveling at the disposition which set
                        above everything else in the world the privilege of moving in this peculiar
                        realm which fascinated her so much. From a conventional point of view, much
                        of what she did was, to say the least of it, unusual, but she did not
                        trouble about this. As she told me on the Mauretania, all
                        she hoped for was to become a woman of Machiavellian finesse, and to have
                        some money. If she had money and attained to real social wisdom,
                        conventional society could go to the devil; for the adventuress, according
                        to her, was welcome everywherethat is, anywhere she would care to go. She
                        did not expect to retain her beauty entirely; but she did expect to have
                        some money, and meanwhile to live brilliantly as she deemed that she was now
                        doing. Her  love of amusement was quite as
                        marked as ever, and her comments on the various women of her class as hard
                        and accurate as they were brilliant. I remember her saying of one woman,
                        with an easy sweep of her hand, "Like a willow, don't you
                        think?"and of another, "She glows like a ruby."
                        It was true fine character delineation.
                    At Maxim's, an hour later, she decided to go home, so we took her to
                        her hotel and then resumed our pursuit of Mlle. Rillette. After much
                        wandering we finally came upon her, about four in the morning, in one of
                        those showy pleasure resorts that I have so frequently described.
                    "Ah, yes, there she is," Barfleur exclaimed. I looked to a
                        distant table to see the figure he indicatedthat of a young girl seemingly
                        not more than twenty-four or twenty-five, a white silk neckerchief tied
                        about her brown hair, her body clothed in a rather nondescript costume for a
                        world so showy as this. Most of the women wore evening clothes. Rillette had
                        on a skirt of light brown wool, a white shirtwaist open in the front and the
                        collar turned down showing her pretty neck. Her skirt was short, and I
                        noticed that she had pleasing ankles and pretty feet and her sleeves were
                        short, showing a solid forearm. Before she noticed Barfleur we saw her take
                        a slender girl in black for a partner and dance, with others, in the open
                        space between the tables which circled the walls. I studied her with
                        interest because of Barfleur's description, because of the fact
                        that she had been married twice, and because the physical and spiritual ruin
                        of a dozen girls was, falsely or not, laid at her door. Her face did not
                        suggest the depravity which her career would indicate, although it was by no
                        means ruddy; but she seemed to scorn rouge. Her eyeseyes are always
                        significant in a forceful personage  were
                        large and vague and brown, set beneath a wide, full foreheadvery wonderful
                        eyes. She appeared, in her idle security and profound nonchalance, like a
                        figure out of the Revolution or the Commune. She would have been magnificent
                        in a riotmarching up a Parisian street, her white band about her brown hair,
                        carrtying a knife, a gun, or a flag. She would have had the courage, too;
                        for it was so plain that life had lost much of its charm and she nearly all
                        of her caring. She came over when her dance was done, having seen Barfleur,
                        and extended an indifferent hand. He told me, after their light conversation
                        in French, that he had chided her to the effect that her career was ruining
                        her once lovely voice. "I shall find it again at the next
                        corner," she said, and walked smartly away.
                    "Some one should write a novel about a woman like that," he
                        explained urgently. "She ought to be painted. It is amazing the
                        sufficiency of soul that goes with that type. There are n't many
                        like her. She could be the sensation again of Paris if she wanted towould
                        try. But she won't. See what she said of her voice just
                        now." He shook his head. I smiled approvingly, for obviously the
                        appearance of the womanher full, rich eyesbore him out.
                    She was a figure of distinction in this restaurant world; for many knew her
                        and kept track of her. I watched her from time to time talking with the
                        guests of one table and another, and the chemical content which made her
                        exceptional was as obvious as though she were a bottle and bore a label. To
                        this day she stands out in my mind in her simple dress and indifferent
                        manner as perhaps the one forceful, significant figure that I saw in all the
                        cafs of Paris or elsewhere.
                    I should like to add here, before I part forever with this curious and
                        feverish Parisian restaurant world, 
                        
                            I looked to a distant table to see the figure he indicated
                        
                        
                         that my conclusion had been, after much and
                        careful observation, that it was too utterly feverish, artificial and exotic
                        not to be dangerous and grimly destructive if not merely touched upon at
                        long intervals. This world of champagne drinkers was apparently interested
                        in but two thingsthe flare and glow of the restaurants, which were always
                        brightly lighted and packed with peopleand women. In the last analysis
                        women, the young women of easy virtue, were the glittering attraction; and
                        truly one might say they were glittering. Fine feathers make fine birds, and
                        nowhere more so than in Paris. But there were many birds who would have been
                        fine in much less showy feathers. In many instances they craved and secured
                        a demure simplicity which was even more destructive than the flaring
                        costumes of the demi-monde. It was strange to see American innocencethe
                        products of Petoskey, Michigan, and Hannibal, Missouri, cheek by jowl with
                        the most daring and the most vicious women which the great metropolis could
                        produce. I did not know until some time later how hard some of these women
                        were, how schooled in vice, how weary of everything save this atmosphere of
                        festivity and the privilege of wearing beautiful clothes.
                    Most people come here for a night or two, or a month or two, or once in a
                        year or so; and then return to the comparatively dull world, from which they
                        emanatedwhich is fortunate. If they were here a little while this deceptive
                        world of delight would lose all its glamour; but a very few days and you see
                        through the dreary mechanism by which it is produced; the brow-beating of
                        shabby waiters by greedy managers, the extortionate charges and tricks by
                        which money is lured from the pockets of the unwary, the wretched hallrooms
                        and garrets from which some of these butterflies emanate to  wing here in seeming delight and then
                        disappear. It was a scorching world, and it displayed vice as an upper and a
                        nether millstone between which youth and beauty is ground or pressed quickly
                        to a worthless mass. I would defy anybody to live in this atmosphere so long
                        as five years and not exhibit strongly the tell-tale marks of decay. When
                        the natural glow of youth has gone comes the powder and paint box for the
                        face, belladonna for the eyes, rouge for the lips, palms, and the nails, and
                        perfumes and ornament and the glister of good clothing; but underneath it
                        all one reads the weariness of the eye, the sickening distaste for
                        bargaining hour by hour and day by day, the cold mechanism of what was once
                        natural, instinctive coquetry. You feel constantly that so many of these
                        demi-mondaines would sell their souls for one last hour of delight and then
                        gladly take poison, as so many of them do, to end it all. Consumption,
                        cocaine and opium maintain their persistent toll. This is a furnace of
                        desirethis Montmartre districtand it burns furiously with a hard, white-hot
                        flame until there is nothing left save black cinders and white ashes. Those
                        who can endure its consuming heat are welcome to its wonders until emotion
                        and feeling and beauty are no more.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXV
                    MONTE CARLO
                    
                        ALL my life before going abroad I had been filled with a
                        curiosity as to the character of the Riviera and Monte Carlo. I had never
                        quite understood that Nice, Cannes, Mentone, San Remo in Italy and Monte
                        Carlo were all in the same vicinitya stone's throw apart, as it
                        were; and that this world is as distinct from the spirit of the north of
                        France as the south of England is from the north of England.
                    As Barfleur explained it, we went due south from Paris to Marseilles and then
                        east along the coast of the Mediterranean until we came to the first
                        stopping-place he had selected, Agay, where we would spend a few days in
                        peace and quiet, far from the hurry and flare of the caf life we had just
                        left, and then journey on the hour or two more which it takes to reach Monte
                        Carlo. He made this arrangement in order that we might have the journey
                        through France by day, and proceed from Agay of a morning, which would give
                        us, if we had luckand such luck usually prevails on the Rivieraa sunlight
                        view of the Mediterranean breaking in rich blue waves against a coast that
                        is yellow and brown and gold and green by turns.
                    Coming south from Paris I had the same sensation of wonder that I had
                        traveling from Calais to Parisa wonder as to where the forty odd millions of
                        the population of France kept itself. It was not visible from the windows of
                        the flying train. All the way we traveled through an almost treeless country
                        past little white lawns and vineyards; and I never realized  before, although I must have known, that
                        these same vineyards were composed of separate vines, set in rows like corn
                        stalks and standing up for all the world like a gnarled T. Every now and
                        then a simple, straightrunning, silvery stream would appear, making its way
                        through a perfectly level lane and set on either bank with tall single lines
                        of feathery poplars. The French landscape painters have used these over and
                        over; and they illustrate exactly the still, lonely character of the
                        country. To me, outside of Paris, France has an atmosphere of silence and
                        loneliness; although, considering the character of the French people I do
                        not understand how that can be.
                    On the way south there was much badinage between Barfleur and Sir Scorp, who
                        accompanied us, as to the character of this adventure. A certain young
                        friend of Barfleur's daughter was then resident at Lyons; and it
                        was Barfleur's humorously expressed hope, that his
                        daughter's friend would bring him a basket of cold chicken, cake,
                        fruit, and wine. It seems that he had urged Berenice to write her friend
                        that he was passing through; and I was hourly amused at Scorp's
                        biting reference to Barfleur's "parental ruse,"
                        which he vindictively hoped would come to nothing. It was as he hoped; for
                        at Lyons the young lady and her parents appeared, but no basket. There were
                        some minutes of animated conversation on the platform; and then we were off
                        again at high speed through the same flat land, until we reached a lovely
                        mountain range in the south of Francea region of huts and heavy ox-wains. It
                        reminded me somewhat of the mountain regions of northern Kentucky. At
                        Marseilles there was a long wait in the dark. A large number of passengers
                        left the train here; and then we rode on for an hour or two more, arriving
                        by moonlight at Agay, or at least the nearest railway station to it.
                    
                    The character of the world in which Agay was located was delicious. After the
                        raw and cold of our last few days in Paris this satin atmosphere of
                        moonlight and perfume was wonderful. We stepped out of a train at the little
                        beach station of this summer coast to find the trees in full leaf and great
                        palms extending their wide fronds into the warm air. There was much chatter
                        in French while the cabby struggled to get all our numerous bags into one
                        vehicle; but when it was all accomplished and the top lowered so that we
                        could see the night, we set forth along a long white road between houses
                        which had anything but a French aspect, being a showy development of things
                        Spanish and Moorish, and past bright whitewashed walls of stone, over which
                        wide-leaved palms leaned. It was wonderful to see the moonlight on the
                        water, the bluish black waves breaking in white ripples on sandy shores, and
                        to feel the wind of the South. I could not believe that a ten-hour ride from
                        Paris would make so great a change; but so it was. We clattered up finally
                        to the Grand Htel d' Agay; and although it possessed so fine a name
                        it was nothing much more than a country inncomparatively new and solidly
                        built, with a charming vine-covered balcony overlooking the sea, and a
                        garden of palms in which one might walk. However, the food, Barfleur assured
                        us, would be passable. It was only three stories high and quite primitive in
                        its appointments. We were lighted to our rooms with candles, but the rooms
                        were large and cool, and the windows, I discovered by throwing mine open,
                        commanded a magnificent view of the bay. I stood by my window transfixed by
                        the beauty of the night. Not in France outside this coastnor in Englandcan
                        you see anything like this in summer. The air was like a caress. Under the
                        white moon you could see the main outlines of the coast and  the white strip of sand at the bottom. Below
                        us, anchored near the garden, were some boats, and to the right white houses
                        sheltered in trees and commanding the wonders of the water. I went to bed
                        breathing a sigh of relief and feeling as if I should sleep soundlywhich I
                        did.
                    The next morning revealed a world if anything more wonderful. Now all the
                        whiteness and the brownness and the sharpness of the coast line were picked
                        out by a brilliant sun. The bay glittered in the light, a rich indigo blue;
                        and a fisherman putting forth to sea hoisted a golden sail. I was astonished
                        to find now that the houses instead of being the drab and white of northern
                        France were as like to be blue or yellow or greenand always there was a
                        touch of color somewhere, blue window-sills ornamenting a white house, brown
                        chimneys contrasting with a blue one, the charm of the Moorish arch and the
                        Moorish lattice suggesting itself at different pointsand always palms. I
                        dressed and went below and out upon the balcony and through the garden to
                        the water's edge, sitting in the warm sun and tossing pebbles into
                        the water. Flowers were in bloom hereblue and yellow blossoms and when
                        Barfleur came down we took a delightful morning walk up a green valley which
                        led inland between hills. No northern day in June could have rivaled in
                        perfection the wonder of this day; and we talked of the stagey make-believe
                        of Parisian night-life as contrasted with this, and the wonder of spring
                        generally.
                    "I should think the whole world would want to live here in
                        winter," I said.
                    "The fact is," replied Barfleur, "what are called
                        the best people do not come here so much nowadays."
                    "Where do they go?" I asked.
                    "Oh, Switzerland is now the thing in winterthe  Alps and all that relates to them. The new rich have overdone
                        this, and it is becoming a little banal."
                    "They cannot alter the wonder of the climate," I replied.
                    We had a table put on the balcony at eleven and ate our morning fish and
                        rolls and salad there. I can see Sir Scorp cheerfully trifling with the cat
                        we found there, the morning sun and scenery having put him in a gay mood,
                        calling, "Chat, chat, chat!" and asking,
                        "How do you talk to a cat in French?" There was an open
                        carriage which came for us at one into which we threw our fur coats and
                        blankets; and then climbed by degrees mile after mile up an exquisite slope
                        by the side of a valley that gradually became a caon; and at the bottom of
                        which tinkled and gurgled a mountain stream. This road led to more great
                        trees at the top of a range overlooking what I thought at first was a great
                        valley where a fog prevailed, but which a few steps further was revealed as
                        the wondrous seawhite sails, a distant pavilion protruding like a fluted
                        marble toy into the blue water, and here and there a pedestrian far below.
                        We made our way to a delightful inn some half way down and back, where under
                        soaring black pine trees we had tea at a little green tablestrawberry jam,
                        new bread, and cakes. I shall never forget the bitter assault I unthinkingly
                        provoked by dipping my spoon into the jelly jar. All the vials of social
                        wrath were poured upon my troubled head. "It serves him
                        right," insisted Barfleur, treacherously. "I saw him do
                        that once before. These people from the Middle West, what can you
                        expect?"
                    That night a grand row developed at dinner between Scorp and Barfleur as to
                        how long we were to remain in Agay and whether we were to stop in or out of
                        Monte Carlo. Barfleur' s plan was for remaining at least three  days here, and then going to a hotel not
                        directly in Monte Carlo but half way between Monte Carlo and Mentonethe Htel
                        Bella Riva. I knew that Barfleur had come here at the present time largely
                        to entertain me; and since I would rather have had his presence than the
                        atmosphere of the best hotel in Monte Carlo, it really did not matter so
                        much to me where we went, so long as it was comfortable. Scorp was greatly
                        incensed, or pretended to be, to think I should be brought here to witness
                        the wonders of this festive world, and then be pocketed in some side spot
                        where half the delicious life would escape me. "Agay!" he
                        kept commenting, "Agay! We come all the way to the south of France
                        to stop at Agay! Candles to light us to bed and French peasants for
                        servants. And then we 'll go to Monte Carlo and stop at some
                        third-rate hotel! Well, you can go to the Bella Riva if you choose; I am
                        going to the Palace Hotel where I can see something, and have a decent bed.
                        I am not going to be packed off any ten miles out of Monte Carlo, and be
                        compelled to use a street car that stops at twelve o'clock and
                        spend thirty francs getting home in a carriage!"
                    This kept up until bedtime with Barfleur offering solemn explanations of why
                        he had come here, why it would be advisable for us to refresh ourselves at
                        the fountain of simple scenery after the fogs of London and the theatric
                        flare of Paris. He had a fine argument for the Bella Riva as a
                        dwelling-site: it was just half way between Monte Carlo and Mentone, it
                        commanded all the bay on which Monte Carlo stood. Cap Martin, with the hotel
                        of that name, here threw its sharp rocky point far out into the sea. A
                        car-line passed the door. In a half-hour either way we could be in either
                        Mentone or Monte Carlo.
                    "Who wants to be in Mentone?""demanded Sir Scorp.
                             "I would rather be an hour away
                        from it instead of half an hour. If I came to see Monte Carlo I would not be
                        bothering about Mentone. I, for one, will not go."
                    It was not long before I learned that Scorp did much protesting but equally
                        much following. The patient silence of Barfleur coupled with direct action
                        at the decisive moment usually won. Scorp's arguments did result in
                        one thing. The next morning, instead of idling in the sun and taking a
                        carriage ride over the adjacent range, we gathered all our belongings and
                        deposited them at the near-by station, while Barfleur and I climbed to the
                        top of an adjacent hill where was an old water-pool, to have a last look at
                        the lovely, high-colored, florescent bay of Agay. Then the long train, with
                        drawing-room cars from all parts of Europe rolled in; and we were off again.
                    Barfleur called my attention as we went along to the first of the umbrella
                        treesof which I was to see so many later in Italycoming into view in the
                        occasional sheltered valleys which we were passing, and later those marvels
                        of southern France and all Italy, the hill cities, towering like great
                        cathedrals high in the air. I shall never forget the impression the first
                        sight of one of these made on me. In America we have nothing save the
                        illusion of clouds over distant landscapes to compare with it. I was
                        astonished, transportedthe reality was so much more wonderful than the
                        drawings of which I had seen so many. Outside the car windows the sweeping
                        fronds of the palms seemed almost to brush the train, hanging over white
                        enclosures of stone. Green shutters and green lattices; red roofs and bright
                        blue jardinires; the half-Italianized Frenchman with his swarthy face and
                        burning eyes. Presently the train stopped at Cannes. I struck out to walk in
                        the pretty garden which I saw was connected with the depot, Barfleur  to send a telegram, Scorp to show how fussy
                        and cantankerous he could be. Here were long trains that had come from St.
                        Petersburg via Vilna and Vienna; and others from Munich, Berlin and
                        Copenhagen with diners labeled "Speisewagen" and sleepers "Schlafwagen." Those from Paris, Calais,
                        Brussels, Cherbourg bore the imposing legend, "Compagnie Internationale des Wagons-Lits et des Grands
                            Express Europens." There was a long black train rumbling
                        in from the south with cars marked Tripoli, Roma, Firenze and Milano. You
                        had a sense, from merely looking at the stations, that the idleness and the
                        luxury of all the world was pouring in here at will.
                    In ten minutes we were off againBarfleur expatiating solemnly on the fact
                        that in England a homely girl was left to her own devices with no one to
                        make anything of her, she being plain and that being the end of it; while
                        here in France something was done with the poorest specimens.
                    "Now those two young ladies," he said, waving his hand
                        dramatically in the direction of two departing travelers, "they are
                        not muchbut look at them. See how smartly they are gotten up. Somebody will
                        marry them. They have been encouraged to buck up,to believe that there is
                        always hope." And he adjusted his monocle cheerfully.
                    Our train was pulling into the station at Monte Carlo. I had the usual vague
                        idea of a much-talked-of but never-seen place.
                    "I can hear the boys calling
                        'Ascenseur,'" exclaimed Barfleur to Scorp
                        prophetically, when we were still a little way out. He was as keen for the
                        adventure as a childmuch more so than I was. I could see how he set store by
                        the pleasure-providing details of the life here; and Scorp, for all his
                        lofty superiority, was  equally keen. They
                        indicated to me the great masses of baggage which occupied the platformsall
                        bright and new and mostly of good leather. I was interested to see the
                        crowds of peoplefor there was a train departing in another directionand to
                        hear the cries of "Ascenseur" as predictedthe elevators
                        lifting to the terrace in front of the Casino, where the tracks enter along
                        a shelf of a declivity considerably above the level of the sea. It is a
                        tight little placeall that I had expected in point of showinessgay rococo
                        houses, white and cream, with red roofs climbing up the sides of the bare
                        brown hill which rises to La Turbie above. We did not stop, but went on to
                        Mentone where we were to lunch. It was charming to see striped awningspink
                        and white and blue and greengay sunshades of various colors and ladies in
                        fresh linens and silks and men in white flannels and an atmosphere of outing
                        generally. I think a sort of summer madness seizes on people under such
                        circumstances and dull care is thrown to the winds, and you plan gay
                        adventures and dream dreams and take yourself to be a singularly important
                        person. And to think that this atmosphere should always be here, and that it
                        can always be reached out of the snows of Russia and the bitter storms of
                        New York and the dreary gray fogs of London, and the biting winds of Berlin
                        and Paris!
                    We lunched at the Admiraltyone of those restaurants celebrs
                        where the haute cuisine of France was to be found in its
                        perfection, where balconies of flowers commanded the cte
                            d'azure.
                    
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVI
                    THE LURE OF GOLD!
                    
                        BEFORE I go a step further in this narrative I must really
                        animadvert to the subject of restaurants and the haute
                        cuisine of France generally, for in this matter Barfleur was as keen as
                        the greatest connoisseurs are in the matter of pictures. He loved and
                        remembered the quality of dishes and the method of their preparation and the
                        character of the men who prepared them and the atmosphere in which they were
                        prepared and in fact everything which relates to the culinary and
                        gastronomic arts and the history of the gourmet generally.
                    In Paris and London Barfleur was constantly talking of the restaurants of
                        importance and contrasting the borrowed French atmosphere of the best
                        English restaurants with the glories of the parent kitchens in France. He
                        literally schooled me in the distinction which was to be drawn between the
                        Caf Anglais, Voisin's and Paillard's, and those smart
                        after-supper restaurants of the Montmartre district where the cuisine of
                        France had been degraded by the addition of negroes, tinsel, dancers, and
                        music. Nevertheless he was willing to admit that their cuisine was not bad.
                        As I remember it now, I was advised to breakfast at Henry's, to
                        dine at the Ritz, and to sup at Durand's; but if I chose to
                        substitute the Caf de Paris for the Ritz at dinner I was not going far
                        wrong. He knew that M. Braquesec, the younger, was now in charge of
                        Voisin's and that Paul was the matre
                        d'htel and that during the Commune Voisin's had once
                        served consomm d'lphant, le chameau roti
                            l'Anglais,
                         and le chat planqu de rats.
                        He thought it must have been quite excellent because M. Braquesec, the
                        elder, supervised it all and because the wines served with it were from
                        twenty to forty years of age.
                    When it came to the Riviera he was well aware of all that region had to
                        promise from Cannes to Mentone; and he could nicely differentiate the
                        advantages of the Caf de Paris; the grand dining-room of the Htel de Paris
                        which was across the street; the Hermitage, which he insisted had quite the
                        most beautiful dining-room in Monte Carlo; the Princess which one of the
                        great stars of the opera had very regularly patronized some years before;
                        the restaurant of the Grand Hotel which he considered very exceptional
                        indeed; and the restaurant at the terminus of the La Turbie mountain
                        railwaywhich he emphatically approved and which commanded a magnificent view
                        of the coast and the sea. I was drilled to understand that if I had mostelle I'Anglais at the Htel de Paris I was
                        having a very excellent fish of the country, served in the very best manner,
                        which is truly worth knowing. If we went to the Princess, the matre d'htel, whom he knew from an older day, would serve
                        us midgeon in some marvelous manner which would be something for me to
                        remember. At the Caf de Paris we were to have soupe Mongasque which had a
                        reminiscence, so he insisted, of Bouillabaisse and was very excellent. The
                        soupions were octopi, but delicate little onesnot the kind that would be
                        thrust upon one in Rome. I was lost among discourses regarding the value of
                        the Regents at Nice; the art of M. Fleury, now the manager of the Htel de
                        Paris; and what a certain head-master could do for one in the way of
                        providing a little local color, as Barfleur termed it, in the food. To all
                        of this, not being a gourmet, I paid as strict attention as I could; though
                        I fear  me much, that a large proportion of
                        the exquisite significance of it all was lost on me. I can only say,
                        however, that in spite of Scorp's jeering, which was constant, the
                        only time we had a really wonderful repast was when Barfleur ordered it.
                    The first luncheon at the Admiralty was an excellent case in point. Barfleur
                        being on the Riviera and being host to several, was in the most stupendous
                        of artistic moods. He made up a menu of the most delicious of hors
                        d'ceuvrewhich he insisted should never have been allowed to take
                        the place of soup, but which, alas, the custom of the time sanctioned and
                        the caviare of which in this case was gray, a point which he wished me
                        particularly to notesole walewski; roast lamb; salad nicois; and Genoese
                        asparagus in order to give our meal the flavor of the land. We had coffee on
                        the balcony afterwards, and I heard much concerning the wonders of this
                        region and of the time when the Winter Palace was the place to lunch. A
                        grand duke was a part of the day's ensemble, and two famous English
                        authors before whom we paraded with dignity.
                    After lunch we made our way to the Htel Bella Riva, which Barfleur in spite
                        of Scorp's complaints had finally selected. It stood on a splendid
                        rise between Mentone and Monte Carlo; and here, after some slight bargaining
                        we were assigned to three rooms en suite with bath. I was
                        given the corner room with two balconies and a flood of sunshine and such a
                        view as I have never seen from any window before or since. Straight before
                        me lay the length of Cap Martin, a grove of thousands of olive trees
                        reflecting from its burnished leaves the rays of the sun and crowding it
                        completely, and beyond it the delicious sweep of the Mediterranean. To the
                        right lay the bay of Monte Carlo, the heights of La Turbie, and all the
                        glittering world which  is Monte Carlo proper.
                        To the left lay Mentone and the green and snow-capped mountains of
                        Ventimiglia and San Remo faintly visible in the distance. Never an hour but
                        the waters of the sea were a lighter or a darker shade of blue and never an
                        hour but a lonely sail was crossing in the foreground. High above the inn at
                        La Turbie, faintly visible in the distance, rose a ruined column of
                        Augustusa broken memory of the time when imperial Rome was dominant here,
                        and when the Roman legions passed this way to Spain. At different hours I
                        could hear the bugle of some frontier garrison sounding reveille,
                        guard-mount, and the sun-set call. Oh, those wonderful mornings when I was
                        waked by the clear note of a horn flying up the valleys of the mountains and
                        sounding over the sea!
                    Immediately after our arrival it was settled that once we had made a swift
                        toilet we would start for Monte Carlo. We were ready to bring back
                        tremendous winningsand eager to see this showy world, the like of which,
                        Scorp insisted, was not to be found elsewhere.
                    "Oh, yes," he said, "I have been to Biarritz and
                        to Ostend and Aix-les-Bainsbut they are not like this. We really should live
                        at the Palace where we could walk on the terrace in the morning and watch
                        the pigeon-shooting." He told a significant story of how once
                        having a toothache he came out of the card-rooms of the Casino into the
                        grand lobby and attempted to pour a little laudanum out of a thin vial, with
                        which to ease the pain. "I stepped behind a column," he
                        explained, "so that I might not be seen; but just as I uncorked the
                        vial four guards seized me and hurried me out of the place. They thought I
                        was taking poison. I had to make plain my identity to the management before
                        they would let me back."
                    We arrived at the edge of the corporation which is  Monte Carlo and walked in, surveying the character of the
                        place. It was as gaudy and rococoesque as one might well expect this world
                        to be. It reminded me in part of that Parisian world which one finds about
                        the Arc de Triomphe, rich and comfortable, only there are no carriages in
                        Monte Carlo to speak of. The distances are too slight and the grades too
                        steep. When we reached the square of the Casino, it did not strike me as
                        having any especial charm. It was small and sloping, and laid off in square
                        beds of reddish flowers with greensward about and gravel paths going down
                        either side. At the foot lay the Casino, ornate and cream-white, with a
                        glass and iron canopy over the door and a swarm of people moving to and
                        fronot an idling throng but rather having an air of considerable industry
                        about it, quite as one might expect to find in a business world. People were
                        bustling along as we were to get to the Casino or to go away from it on some
                        errand and get back. We hurried down the short length of the sward, checking
                        our coats, after waiting a lengthy time for our turn in line, and then
                        entering the chambers where credentials are examined and cards of admission
                        sold. There was quite some formality about this, letters being examined, our
                        personal signature and home address taken and then we were ready to enter.
                    While Barfleur presented our credentials, Sir Scorp and I strolled about in
                        the lobby observing the inpouring and outpouring throng. He showed me the
                        exact pillar where he had attempted to ease his tooth. This was an
                        interesting world of forceful people. The German, the Italian, the American,
                        the Englishman and the Russian were easily recognizable. Sir Scorp was
                        convinced that the faces of the winners and the losers could be
                        distinguished, but I am afraid I was not enough of a physiognomist to do
                        this. If there were any who had just lost 
                        their last dollar I did not detect them. On the contrary it seemed to me
                        that the majority were abnormally cheerful and were having the best time in
                        the world. A large bar at the end of the room opposite the general entrance
                        to the card-rooms had a peculiarly American appearance. The one thing that
                        was evident was that all here were healthy and vigorous, with a love of life
                        in their veins, eager to be entertained, and having the means in a large
                        majority of cases to accomplish this end. It struck me here as it has in so
                        many other places where great pleasure-loving throngs congregate, that the
                        difference between the person who has something and the person who has
                        nothing is one of intense desire, and what, for a better phrase, I will call
                        a capacity to live.
                    The inner chambers of the Casino were divided into two groups, the outer
                        being somewhat less ornately decorated and housing those who for reasons of
                        economy prefer to be less exclusive, and the inner more elaborate in
                        decoration and having of an evening, it was said, a more gorgeously dressed
                        throng. Just why one should choose less expensive rooms when gambling,
                        unless low in funds, I could not guess. Those in both sets of rooms seemed
                        to have enough money to gamble. I could not see, after some experience, that
                        there was very much difference. The players seemed to wander rather
                        indiscriminately through both sets of rooms. Certainly we did. An extra
                        charge of five Louis was made for the season's privilege of
                        entering the inner group or "Cirque
                        priv" as it was called.
                    I shall never forget my first sight of the famous gaming-tables in the outer
                        roomsfor we were not venturing into the inner at present. Aside from the
                        glamour of the crowdwhich was as impressive as an opera first nightand the
                        decorative quality of the room  which was
                        unduly rich and brilliant, I was most vividly impressed by the vast
                        quantities of money scattered so freely over the tables, small piles of gold
                        louis, stacks of eight, ten, fifteen and even twenty-five franc pieces,
                        layers of pale crisp bank-notes whose value was anywhere from one hundred to
                        one thousand francs. It was like looking through the cashier's
                        window of an immense bank. The mechanism and manipulation of the roulette
                        wheel I did not understand at first nor the exact duties of the many
                        croupiers seated at each table. Their cry of "Rien ne va plus!" and the subsequent scraping together of the
                        shining coin with the little rakes or the throwing back of silver, gold and
                        notes to the lucky winner gripped my attention like a vise. "Great
                        God!" I thought, "supposing I was to win a thousand pounds
                        with my fifteen. I should stay in Europe an entire year."
                    Like all beginners I watched the process with large eyes and then seeing
                        Barfleur get back five gold louis for one placed on a certain number I
                        ventured one of my own. Result: three louis. I tried again on another number
                        and won two more. I saw myself (in fancy) the happy possessor of a thousand
                        pounds. My next adventure cost me two louis, whereupon I began to wonder
                        whether I was such a fortunate player after all.
                    "Come with me," Barfleur said, coming around to where I
                        stood adventuring my small sums with indescribable excitement and taking my
                        arm genially. "I want to send some money to my mother for luck.
                        I've just won fifteen pounds."
                    "Talk about superstition," I replied, coming away from the
                        table, "I did n't believe it of you."
                    "I'm discovered!" he smiled philosophically;
                        "besides I want to send some sweets to the children."
                    We strolled out into the bright afternoon sun finding the terrace
                        comparatively empty, for the Casino draws 
                        most of the crowd during the middle and late afternoon. It was strange to
                        leave these shaded, artificially lighted rooms with their swarms of
                        well-dressed men and women sitting about or bending over tables all riveted
                        on the one thrilling thingthe drop of the little white ball in a certain
                        pocketand come out into the glittering white world with its blazing sun, its
                        visible blue sea, its cream-colored buildings and its waving palms. We went
                        to several shopsone for sweets and one for flowers, haut
                            parisiennes in their atmosphereand duly dispatched our purchases.
                        Then we went to the post-office, plastered with instructions in various
                        languages, and saw that the money was sent to Barfleur's mother.
                        Then we returned to the Casino and Barfleur went his way, while I wandered
                        from board to board studying the crowd, risking an occasional louis, and
                        finally managing to lose three pounds more than I had won. In despair I went
                        to see what Scorp was doing. He had three or four stacks of gold coin in
                        front of him at a certain table, all of five hundred dollars. He was risking
                        these in small stacks of ten and fifteen louis and made no sign when he won
                        or lost. On several occasions I thought he was certain to win a great sum,
                        so lavishly were gold louis thrown him by the croupier, but on others I felt
                        equally sure he was to be disposed of, so freely were his gold pieces
                        scraped away from him.
                    "How are you making out?" I asked.
                    "I think I've lost eight hundred francs. If I should win
                        this though, I'll risk a bee-a."
                    "What's a bee-a?"
                    "A thousand franc note."
                    My poor little three louis seemed suddenly insignificant. A lady sitting next
                        to him, a woman of perhaps fifty, with a cool, calculating face had perhaps
                        as much  as two thousand dollars in gold and
                        notes piled up before her. All around the table were these piles of gold,
                        silver and notes. It was a fascinating scene.
                    "There, that ends me," observed Scorp, all at once, his
                        stock of gold on certain numbers disappearing with the rake of the croupier.
                        "Now I'm done. We might walk out in the lobby and watch
                        the crowd." All his good gold so quietly raked in by the croupier
                        was lingering painfully in my memory. I was beginning to see plainly that I
                        would not make a good gambler. Such a loss distressed me.
                    "How much did you lose?" I inquired.
                    "Oh, a thousand francs," he replied.
                    We strolled up and down, Scorp commenting sarcastically on one type and
                        another and yet with a genial tolerance which was amusing.
                    I remember a charming-looking cocotte, a radiant type of brunette, with
                        finely chiseled features, slim, delicate fingers, a dainty little foot, who,
                        clad in a fetching costume of black and white silk which fitted her with all
                        the airy grace of a bon-bon ribbon about its box, stood looking uncertainly
                        about as if she expected to meet some one.
                    "Look at her," Scorp commented with that biting little ha!
                        ha! of his, which involved the greatest depths of critical sarcasm
                        imaginable. "There she is. She's lost her last louis and
                        she's looking for some one to pay for her dinner!"
                    I had to smile to myself at the man's croaking indifference to the
                        lady's beauty. Her obvious charms had not the slightest interest
                        for him.
                    Of another lovely creature who went by with her head held high and her lips
                        parted in a fetching, coaxing way he observed, "She practises that
                        in front of her mirror!" and finding nothing else to attack,
                        finally  turned to me. "I say,
                        it's a wonder you don't take a cocktail. There's
                        your American bar."
                    "It's the wrong time, Scorp," I replied.
                        "You don't understand the art of cocktail
                        drinking."
                    "I should hope not!" he returned morosely.
                    Finally after much more criticism of the same sort Barfleur arrived, having
                        lost ten Louis, and we adjourned for tea. As usual an interesting argument
                        arose now not only as to where we were to dine, but how we were to live our
                        very lives in Monte Carlo.
                    "Now I should think," said Barfleur, "it would be
                        nice if we were to dine at the Princess. You can get sole and canard la presse there and their wines are excellent. Besides we
                        can't drive to the Bella Riva every evening."
                    "Just as I thought!" commented Scorp bitterly.
                        "Just as I thought. Now that we are staying at Bella Riva, a half
                        hour or so away, we will dine in Monte Carlo. I knew it. We will do no such
                        thing. We will go back to the Bella Riva, change our clothes, dine simply
                        and inexpensively [this from the man who had just lost a thousand francs]
                        come back here, buy our tickets for the Cirque priv and
                        gamble inside. First we go to Agay and spend a doleful time among a lot of
                        peasants and now we hang around the outer rooms of the Casino. We
                        can't live at the Htel de Paris or enter the Cirque
                            priv but we can dine at the Princess. Ha! ha! Well, we will do no
                        such thing. Besides, a little fasting will not do you any harm. You need not
                        waste all your money on your stomach."
                    The man had a gay acidity which delighted me.
                    Barfleur merely contemplated the ceiling of the lobby where we were gathered
                        while Sir Scorp rattled on in this fashion.
                    "I expected to get tickets for the Cirque
                        priv" he  soothed and added
                        suggestively, "It will cost at least twenty francs to drive over to
                        the Bella Riva."
                    "Exactly!" replied Scorp. "As I predicted. We
                        can't live in Monte Carlo but we can pay twenty francs to get over
                        to Cap Martin. Thank Heaven there are still street cars. I do not need to
                        spend all my money on shabby carriages, riding out in the cold!"
                        (It was a heavenly night.)
                    "I think we'd better dine at the Princess and go home
                        early," pleaded Barfleur. "We're all tired.
                        To-morrow I suggest that we go up to La Turbie for lunch. That will prove a
                        nice diversion and after that we'll come down and get our tickets
                        for the Cirque priv. Come now. Do be reasonable. Dreiser
                        ought to see something of the restaurant life of Monte Carlo."
                    As usual Barfleur won. We did go to the Caf Princess. We
                            did have sole Normande. We did have canard la presse. We did have some excellent wine and Barfleur was in his
                        glory.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVII
                    WE GO TO EZE
                    
                        THE charms of Monte Carlo are many. Our first morning
                        there, to the sound of a horn blowing reveille in the distance, I was up
                        betimes enjoying the wonderful spectacles from my balcony. The sun was just
                        peeping up over the surface of an indigo sea, shooting sharp golden glances
                        in every direction. Up on the mountains, which rise sharp and clear like
                        great unornamented cathedrals back of the jeweled villages of this coast, it
                        was picking out shepherd's hut and fallen mementoes of the glory
                        that was Rome. A sailboat or two was already making its way out to sea, and
                        below me on that long point of land which is Cap Martin, stretching like a
                        thin green spear into the sea, was the splendid olive orchard which I noted
                        the day before, its gleaming leaves showing a different shade of green from
                        what it had then. I did not know it until the subject came up that olive
                        trees live to be a thousand years old and that they do as well here on this
                        little strip of coast, protected by the high mountains at their back, as
                        they do anywhere in Italy. In fact, as I think of it, this lovely projection
                        of land, no wider than to permit of a few small villages and cities crowding
                        between the sea and the mountains, is a true projection of Italy itself, its
                        palms, olive trees, cypresses, umbrella trees and its peasants and
                        architecture. I understand that a bastard Frenchhalf French, half Italianis
                        spoken here and that only here are the hill cities truly the same as they
                        are in Italy.
                    While I was gazing at the morning sun and the blue  sea and marveling how quickly the comfortable Riviera Express
                        had whirled us out of the cold winds of Paris into this sun-kissed land,
                        Barfleur must have been up and shaving, for presently he appeared, pink and
                        clean in his brown dressing-gown, to sit out on my lovely balcony with me.
                    "You know," he said, after he had commented on the wonder
                        of the morning and the delicious soothing quality of the cool air,
                        "Scorp is certainly an old fussbutton. There he lies in there now,
                        ready to pounce on us. Of course he is n't very strong physically
                        and that makes him irritable. He does so love to be contrary."
                    "I think he is a good running-mate for you," I observed.
                        "If he leans to asceticism in the matter of food, you certainly run
                        to the other extreme. Sybaritic is a mild expression for your
                        character."
                    "You don't mean it?"
                    "I certainly do."
                    "In what way have I shown myself sybaritic?"
                    I charged him with various crimes. My amicable lecture was interrupted by the
                        arrival of rolls and coffee and we decided to take breakfast in the company
                        of Scorp. We knocked at his door.
                    
                        "Entrez!"
                    
                    There he was, propped up in bed, his ascetic face crowned by his brownish
                        black hair and set with those burning dark eyesa figure of almost classic
                        significance.
                    "Ah!" he exclaimed grimly, "here he comes. The
                        gourmet's guide to Europe!"
                    "Now, do be cheerful this morning, Scorp, do be," cooed
                        Barfleur. "Remember it is a lovely morning. You are on the Riviera.
                        We are going to have a charming time."
                    
                    "You are, anyway!" commented Scorp.
                    "I am the most sacrificial of men, I assure you," commented
                        Barfleur. "I would do anything to make you happy. We will go up to
                        La Turbie to-day, if you say, and order a charming lunch. After that we will
                        go to Eze, if you say, and on to Nice for dinner, if you think fit. We will
                        go into the Casino there for a little while and then return. Is n't
                        that a simple and satisfactory program? Dreiser and I will walk up to La
                        Turbie. You can join us at one for lunch. You think he ought to see Eze,
                        don't you?"
                    "Yes, if there is n't some Caf de Paris hidden away up
                        there somewhere where you can gormandize again. If we can just manage to get
                        you past the restaurants!"
                    So it was agreed: Barfleur and I would walk; Sir Scorp was to follow by
                        train. As the day was balmy and perfect, all those special articles of
                        adornment purchased in London for this trip were extracted from our luggage
                        and duly put onlight weight suits, straw hats and ties of delicate tints;
                        and then we set forth. The road lay in easy swinging S's, up and up
                        past terraced vineyards and garden patches and old stone cottages and
                        ambling muleteers with their patient little donkeys heavily burdened.
                        Automobiles, I noticed, even at this height came grumbling up or tearing
                        downand always the cypress tree with its whispering black-green needles and
                        the graceful umbrella tree made artistic architectural frames for the vistas
                        of the sea.
                    Here and now I should like to pay my tribute to the cypress tree. I saw it
                        later in all its perfection at Pisa, Rome, Florence, Spello, Assisi and
                        elsewhere in Italy, but here at Monte Carlo, or rather outside of it, I saw
                        it first. I never saw it connected with anything tawdry or commonplace and
                        wherever it grows there is dignity and beauty. It is not to be seen anywhere
                        in immediate  contact with this feverish
                        Casino world of Monte Carlo. It is as proud as beauty itself, as haughty as
                        achievement. By old ruins, in sacred burial grounds, by worn gates and
                        forgotten palaces it sways and sighs. It is as mournful as deathas somber in
                        its mien as great age and experiencea tree of the elders. Where Rome grew it
                        grew, and to Greek and Roman temples in their prime and pride it added its
                        sacred company.
                    Plant a cypress tree near my grave when I am dead. To think of its tall
                        spearlike body towering like a stately monument over me would be all that I
                        could artistically ask. If some of this illusory substance which seems to be
                        that which is I, physically, here on this earth, should mingle with its
                        fretted roots and be builded into the noble shaft of its body I should be
                        glad. It would be a graceful and artistic way to disappear into the unknown.
                    Our climb to La Turbie was in every respect delightful. We stopped often to
                        comment on the cathedral-like character of the peaks, to speculate as to the
                        age of the stone huts.
                    About half way up we came to a little inn called the Corniche, which really
                        hangs on the cornice of this great range, commanding the wide, blue sweep of
                        the Mediterranean below; and here, under the shade of umbrella trees and
                        cypresses and with the mimosa in full bloom and with some blossom which
                        Barfleur called "cherrypie" blowing everywhere, we took
                        seats at a little green table to have a pot of tea. It is an American
                        innthis Cornichewith an American flag fluttering high on a white pole, and
                        an American atmosphere not unlike that of a country farmhouse in Indiana.
                        There were some chickens scratching about the door; and at least three
                        canaries in separate bright brass cages hung in the branches of the
                        surrounding trees. They sang  with tremendous
                        energy. With the passing of a muleteer, whose spotted cotton shirt and
                        earth-colored trousers and dusty skin bespoke the lean, narrow life of the
                        peasant, we discussed wealth and poverty, lavish expenditure and meager
                        subsistence, the locust-like quality of the women of fashion and of
                        pleasure, who eat and eat and gorge and glut themselves of the showy things
                        of life without. aim or even thought; the peasant on this mountainside, with
                        perhaps no more than ten cents a day to set his beggar board, while below
                        the idle company in the Casino, shining like a white temple from where we
                        sat, were wasting thousands upon thousands of dollars hourly. Barfleur
                        agreed most solemnly with it all. He was quite sympathetic. The tables
                        there, he said, even while we looked, were glutted with gold, and the Prince
                        of Monaco was building, with his surplus earnings, useless marine museums
                        which no one visited.
                    I was constantly forgetting in our peregrinations about the neighborhood how
                        small the Principality of Monaco is. I am sure it would fit nicely into ten
                        city blocks. A large portion of Monte Carlo encroaches on French
                        territoryonly the Casino, the terrace, the heights of Monaco belong to the
                        Principality. One-half of a well-known restaurant there, I believe, is in
                        Monaco and the other half in France. La Turbie, on the heights here, the
                        long road we had come, almost everything in fact, was in France. We went
                        into the French post-office to mail cards and then on to the French
                        restaurant commanding the heights. This particular restaurant commands a
                        magnificent view. A circle about which the automobiles turned in front of
                        its door was supported by a stone wall resting on the sharp slope of the
                        mountain below. All the windows of its principal diningroom looked out over
                        the sea, and of the wonderful view I was never weary. The room had an
                        oriental touch,  and the, white tables and
                        black-coated waiters accorded ill with this. Still it offered that smartness
                        of service which only the French restaurants possess.
                    Barfleur was for waiting for Scorp who had not arrived. I was for eating, as
                        I was hungry. Finally we sat down to luncheon and we were consuming the
                        sweet when in he came. His brownish-black eyes burned with their usual
                        critical fire. If Sir Scorp had been born with a religious, reforming spirit
                        instead of a penchant for art he would have been a St. Francis of Assisi. As
                        it was, without anything to base it on, except Barfleur's
                        gormandizing propensities, he had already established moral censorship over
                        our actions.
                    "Ah, here you are, eating as usual," he observed with that
                        touch of lofty sarcasm which at once amused and irritated me. "No
                        excursion without a meal as its object."
                    "Sit down, El Greco," I commented, "and note the
                        beautiful view. This should delight your esthetic soul."
                    "It might delight mine, but I am not so sure about yours. Barfleur
                        would certainly see nothing in it if there were not a restaurant
                        hereha!"
                    "I found a waiter here who used to serve me in the Caf Royal in
                        London," observed Barfleur cheerfully.
                    "Now we can die content," sighed Scorp. "We have
                        been recognized by a French waiter on the Riviera. Ha! Never
                        happy," he added, turning to me, "unless he is being
                        recognized by waiters somewherehis one claim to glory."
                    We went out to see the ruined monument to Augustus Csar, crumbling on this
                        high mountain and commanding the great blue sweep of the Mediterranean
                        below. There were a number of things in connection with this monument which
                        were exceedingly interesting. It illustrated so well the Roman method of
                        construction: a vast  core of rubble and
                        brick, faced with marble. Barfleur informed me that only recently the French
                        government had issued an order preventing the removal of any more of the
                        marble, much of which had already been stolen, carted away or cut up here
                        into other forms. Immense marble drums of pure white stone were still lying
                        about, fallen from their places; and in the surrounding huts of the peasant
                        residents of La Turbie could be seen part of once noble pillars set into the
                        fabric of their shabby doorways or used as corner-stones to support their
                        pathetic little shelters. I recall seeing several of these immense drums of
                        stone set at queer angles under the paper walls of the huts, the native
                        peasants having built on them as a base, quite as a spider might attach its
                        gossamer net to a substantial bush or stone. I reflected at length on the
                        fate of greatness and how little the treasures of one age may be entrusted
                        to another. Time and chance, dullness and wasteful ignorance, lie in wait
                        for them all.
                    The village of La Turbie, although in France, gave me my first real taste of
                        the Italian village. High up on this mountain above Monte Carlo, in touch
                        really with the quintessence of showy expenditureclothes, jewels,
                        architecture, foodhere it stood, quite as it must have been standing for the
                        last three or four hundred yearsits narrow streets clambering up and down
                        between houses of gray stone or brick, covered with gray lichens. I thought
                        of Benvenuto Cellinihow he always turned the corners of the dark, narrow
                        streets of Rome in as wide a circle as possible in order to save himself
                        from any lurking assassinthat he might draw his own knife quickly. Dirt and
                        age and quaintness and romance: it was in these terms that La Turbie spoke
                        to us. Although anxious to proceed to Eze, not so very far away, which they
                        both assured me was so much more picturesque 
                        and characteristic, yet we lingered, looking lovingly up and down narrow
                        passages where stairs clambered gracefully, where arches curved
                        picturesquely over streets, and where plants bloomed bravely in spotted,
                        crumbling windows. Age! age! And with it men, women and children of the
                        usual poverty-stricken Italian typenot French, but Italians. Women with
                        bunchy blue or purple skirts, white or colored kerchiefs, black hair,
                        wrinkled, yellow or blackish-brown faces, glittering dark eyes and claw-like
                        hands.
                    Not far from the center of this moldy scene, flourishing like a great lichen
                        at the foot of Augustus, his magnificent column, was a public fountain, of
                        what date I do not know. The housewives of the community were hard at their
                        washing, piling the wet clothes in soapy masses on the stone rim of the
                        basin. They were pattering and chattering, their skirts looped up at their
                        hips, their heads wound about with cloths of various colors. It brought back
                        to my mind, by way of contrast, the gloomy wash- and bath-house in Bethnal
                        Green, which I have previously commented on. Despite poverty and ignorance,
                        the scene here was so much more invitingeven inspiring. Under a blue sky, in
                        the rays of a bright afternoon sun, beside a moldering but none the less
                        lovely fountain, they seemed a very different kind of mortalfar more
                        fortunate than those I had seen in Bethnal Green and Stepney. What can
                        governments do toward supplying blue skies, broken fountains and humanly
                        stirring and delightful atmosphere? Would Socialism provide these things?
                    With many backward glances, we departed, conveyed hence in an inadequate
                        little vehicle drawn by one of the boniest horses it has ever been my lot to
                        ride behind. The cheerful driver was as fat as his horse was lean, and as
                        dusty as the road itself. We were wedged tightly  in the single green cloth seat, Scorp on one side, I on the
                        other, Barfleur in the middle, expatiating as usual on the charm of life and
                        enduring cheerfully all the cares and difficulties of his exalted and
                        self-constituted office of guide, mentor and friend.
                    Deep green valleys, dizzy precipices along which the narrow road skirted
                        nervously, tall tops of hills that rose about you craggily or pastorallyso
                        runs the road to Eze and we followed it jestingly, Sir Scorp so dizzy
                        contemplating the depths that we had to hold him in. Barfleur was gay and
                        ebullient. I never knew a man who could become so easily intoxicated with
                        life.
                    "There you have it," said Sir Scorp, pointing far down a
                        green slope to where a shepherd was watching his sheep, a cape coat over his
                        arm, a crooked staff in his hand; "there is your pastoral, lineally
                        descended from the ancient Greeks. Barfleur pretends to love nature, but
                        that would not bring him out here. There is no canard la
                        presse attached to itno sole walewski."
                    
                    "And see the goose-girl!"I exclaimed, as a maiden in bare
                        feet, her skirt falling half way below her knees, crossed the road.
                    "All provided, my dear boy," assured Barfleur, beaming on
                        me through his monocle. "Everything as it should be for you. You
                        see how I do. Goose-girls, shepherds, public fountains, old monuments to
                        Csar, anything you like. I will show you Eze now. Nothing finer in
                        Europe."
                    We were nearing Eze around the green edge of a mountainits topand there I saw
                        it, my first hillcity. Not unlike La Turbie, it was old and gray, but with
                        that spectacular dignity which anything set on a hill possesses. Barfleur
                        carefully explained to me that in the olden dayssome few hundred years
                        beforethe inhabitants of the seashore and plain were compelled  to take to the hills to protect themselves
                        against marauding piratesthat the hill-city dates from the earliest times in
                        Italy and was common to the Latins before the dawn of history. Eze towered
                        up, completely surrounded by a wall, the only road leading to it being the
                        one on which we were traveling. By a bridge we crossed a narrow gully,
                        dividing one mountain height from another, and then, discharging our fat
                        cabman and his bony horse, mounted to the open gate or arched door, now
                        quite unguarded. Some of the village children were selling the common
                        flowers of the field, and a native in tight dusty trousers and soft hat was
                        entering.
                    I think I devoured the strangeness and glamour of Eze as one very hungry
                        would eat a meal. I examined all the peculiarities of this outer entrance
                        and noted how like a hole in a snail shell it was, giving not directly into
                        the old city, or village, but into a path that skirted the outer wall. Above
                        were holes through which defenders could shower arrows and boiling oil upon
                        those who might have penetrated this outer defense. There was a blind
                        passage at one point, luring the invaders into a devilish pocket where their
                        fate was sealed. If one gained this first gate and the second, which gave
                        into a narrow, winding, upward-climbing street, the fighting would be hand
                        to hand and always upward against men on a higher level. The citadel, as we
                        found at last, was now a red and gray brick ruin, only some arches and
                        angles of which were left, crowning the summit, from which the streets
                        descended like the whorls of a snailshell. Gray cobble-stone, and long
                        narrow bricks set on their sides, form the streets or passages. The squat
                        houses of brick and gray stone followed closely the convolutions of the
                        street. It was a silent, sleepy little city. Few people were about. The
                        small shops were guarded by old women or children. The men were  sheep-herders, muleteers, gardeners and
                        farmers on the slopes below. Anything that is sold in this high-placed city
                        is brought up to it on the backs of slow-climbing, recalcitrant donkeys. One
                        blessed thing, the sewage problem of these older Italian-French cities,
                        because of their situation on the hillside, solves itselfotherwise, God help
                        the cities. Barfleur insisted that there was leprosy hereaboutsa depressing
                        thought.
                    Climbing up and around these various streets, peering in at the meager little
                        windows where tobacco, fruit, cheese and modest staples were sold, we
                        reached finally the summit of Eze, where for the first time in ItalyI count
                        the Riviera Italianthe guide nuisance began. An old woman, in patois French,
                        insisted on chanting about the ruins. Sir Scorp kept repeating,
                        "No, no, my good woman, go away," and I said in English,
                        "Run, tell it to Barfleur. He is the bell-wether of this
                        flock."
                    Barfleur clambered to safety up a cracked wall of the ruin and from his dizzy
                        height eyed her calmly and bade her "Run along, now." But
                        it was like King Canute bidding the sea to retreat, till she had
                        successfully taken toll of us. Meanwhile we stared in delight at the
                        Mediterranean, at the olive groves, the distant shepherds, at the lovely
                        blue vistas and the pale threads of roads.
                    We were so anxious to get to Nice in time for dinner, and so opposed to
                        making our way by the long dusty road which lay down the mountain, that we
                        decided to make a short cut of it and go down the rocky side of the hill by
                        a foot-wide path which was pointed out to us by the village priest, a
                        haggard specimen of a man who, in thin cassock and beggarly shoes and hat,
                        paraded before his crumbling little church door. We were a noble company, if
                        somewhat out of the picture, as we piled down this narrow
                        mountaineer's trackBarfleur in a brilliant checked suit and white
                        hat, and Sir Scorp  in very smart black. My
                        best yellow shoes (ninety francs in Paris) lent a pleasing note to my
                        otherwise inconspicuous attire, and gave me some concern, for the going was
                        most rough and uncertain.
                    We passed shepherds tending sheep on sharp slopes, a donkey-driver making his
                        way upward with three donkeys all heavily laden, an umbrella-tree sheltering
                        a peasant so ancient that he must have endured from Grecian days, and olive
                        groves whose shadows were as rich as that bronze which time has favored with
                        its patina. It seemed impossible that half way between Monte Carlo and
                        Nicethose twin worlds of spendthrift fashion and pampered viceshould endure
                        a scene so idyllic. The Vale of Arcady is here; all that art could suggest
                        or fancy desire, a world of simple things. Such scenes as this, remarked Sir
                        Scorp, were favored by his great artistic admirationDaubigny.
                    We found a railway station somewhere, and then we got to Nice for dinner.
                        Once more a soul-stirring argument between Barfleur and Sir Scorp. We would
                        take tea at Rumpelmeyer'swe would not take tea at
                        Rumpelmeyer's. We would dine at The Regence; we would not dine at The Regence. We would pay I-forget-how-many louis and
                        enter the baccarat chambers of the Casino; we would not do
                        anything of the sort. It was desired by Barfleur that I should see the
                        wonders of the sea-walk with the waves spraying the protecting wall. It was
                        desired by Scorp that I should look in all the jewelry shop windows with him
                        and hear him instruct in the jeweler's art. How these matters were
                        finally adjusted is lost in the haze of succeeding impressions. We did have tea at Rumpelmeyer's, howevera very
                        commonplace but bright affairand then we loitered in front of shop windows
                        where Sir Scorp pointed out really astounding jewels offered to the public
                        for fabulous  sums. One great diamond he knew
                        to have been in the possession of the Sultan of Turkey, and you may well
                        trust his word and his understanding. A certain necklace here displayed had
                        once been in his possession and was now offered at exactly ten times what he
                        had originally sold it for. A certain cut steel broochvery large and very
                        handsomewas designed by himself, and was first given as a remembrance to a
                        friend. Resultendless imitation by the best shops. He dallied over rubies
                        and emeralds, suggesting charming uses for then. And then finally we came to
                        the Casinothe Casino Municipalewith its baccarat chambers, its great
                        dining-rooms, its public lounging-room with such a world of green wicker
                        chairs and tables as I have never seen. The great piers at Atlantic City are
                        not so large. Being the height of the season, it was of course filled to
                        overflowing by a brilliant throngcocottes and gamblers drawn here from all
                        parts of Europe; and tourists of all nationalities.
                    Sir Scorp, as usual, in his gentle but decided way, raised an argument
                        concerning what we should have for dinner. The mere suggestion that it
                        should be canard la presse and champagne threw him into a
                        dyspeptic chill. "I will not pay for it. You can spend your money
                        showing off if you choose; but I will eat a simple meal somewhere
                        else."
                    "Oh, no," protested Barfleur. "We are here for a
                        pleasant evening. I think it important that Dreiser should see this. It need
                        not be canard la presse. We can have sole and a light
                        Burgundy."
                    So sole it was, and a light Burgundy, and a bottle of water for Sir
                    Scorp.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVIII
                    NICE
                    
                        NOT having as yet been in the Cirque
                        pric at Monte Carlo, I was perhaps unduly impressed by the splendor of
                        the rooms devoted to gambling in this amazingly large casino. There were
                        eight hundred or a thousand people all in evening clothes, who had paid a
                        heavy price for the mere privilege of entering, and were now gathered about
                        handsome green-covered mahogany tables under glittering and ornate
                        electroliers, playing a variety of carefully devised gambling games with a
                        fervor that at times makes martyrs in other causes. To a humble-minded
                        American person like myself, unused to the high world of fashion, this
                        spectacle was, to say the least, an interesting one. Here were a dozen
                        nationalities represented by men and women whose hands were manicured to
                        perfection, whose toilets were all that a high social occasion might
                        require, their faces showing in every instance a keen understanding of their
                        world and how it works. Here in Nice, if you walk away from these centers of
                        social perfection, where health and beauty and sophistication and money
                        abound, the vast run of citizens are as poverty-stricken as any; but this
                        collection of nobility and gentry, of millionaires, adventurers,
                        intellectual prostitutes and savage beauties is recruited from all over the
                        world. I hold that is something to see.
                    The tables were fairly swarming with a fascinating throng all very much alike
                        in their attitude and their love of the game, but still individual and
                        interesting. I venture to say that any one of the people I saw  in this room, if you saw him in a crowd on
                        the street, would take your attention. A native force and self-sufficiency
                        went with each one. I wondered constantly where they all came from. It takes
                        money to come to the Riviera; it takes money to buy your way into any
                        gambling-room. It takes money to gamble; and what is more it takes a certain
                        amount of self-assurance and individual selection to come here at all. By
                        your mere presence you are putting yourself in contact and contrast with a
                        notable standard of social achievement. Your intellectuality, your ability
                        to take care of yourself, your breeding and your subtlety are at once
                        challengednot consciously, but unconsciously. Do you really belong here? the
                        eyes of the attendants ask you as you pass. And the glitter and color and
                        life and beauty of the room is a constant challenge.
                    It did not surprise me in the least that all these men and women in their
                        health and attractiveness carried themselves with cynical, almost sneering
                        hauteur. They might well do soas the world judges these material thingsfor
                        they are certainly far removed from the rank and file of the streets; and to
                        see them extracting from their purses and their pockets handfuls of gold,
                        unfolding layers of crisp notes that represented a thousand francs each, and
                        with an almost indifferent air laying them on their favorite numbers or
                        combinations was to my unaccustomed eye a gripping experience. Yet I was not
                        interested in gamblingonly in the people who played.
                    I know that to the denizens of this world who are fascinated by chance and
                        find their amusement in such playing, this atmosphere is commonplace. It was
                        not so to me. I watched the womenparticularly the beautiful womenwho
                        strolled about the chambers with their escorts solely to show off their fine
                        clothes. You  see a certain type of youth here
                        who seems to be experienced in this gay world that drifts from one resort to
                        another, for you hear such phrases as "Oh, yes, I saw her at
                        Aix-les-Bains," or, "She was at Karlsbad last
                        summer." "Is that the same fellow she was with last year?
                        I thought she was living with" (this of a second individual).
                        "My heaven, how well she keeps up!" or, "This
                        must be her first season hereI have never seen her before." Two or
                        three of these young bloods would follow a woman all around the rooms,
                        watching her, admiring her beauty quite as a horseman might examine the fine
                        points of a horse. And all the while you could see that she was keenly aware
                        of the critical fire of these eyes.
                    At the tables was another type of woman whom I had first casually noticed at
                        Monte Carlo, a not too good looking, rather practical, and perhaps
                        disillusioned type of womanusually inclined to stoutness, as is so often the
                        case with women of indolent habits and no temperamentalthough, now that I
                        think of it, I have the feeling that neither illusion nor disillusion have
                        ever played much part in the lives of such as these. They looked to me like
                        women who, from their youth up, had taken life with a grain of salt and who
                        had never been carried away by anything muchneither love, nor fashion, nor
                        children, nor ambition. Perhaps their keenest interest had always been
                        moneythe having and holding of it. And here they satnot good-looking, not
                        apparently magneticinterested in chance, and very likely winning and losing
                        by turns, their principal purpose being, I fancy, to avoid the dullness and
                        monotony of an existence which they are not anxious to endure. I heard one
                        or two derogatory comments on women of this type while I was abroad; but I
                        cannot say that they did more than appeal 
                        
                            "My heaven, how well she keeps up!"
                        
                        
                         to my sympathies. Supposing, to look at it
                        from another point of view, you were a woman of forty-five or fifty. You
                        have no familynothing to hold you, perhaps, but a collection of dreary
                        relatives, or the ennui of a conventional neighborhood
                        with prejudices that are wearisome to your sense of liberty and freedom. If
                        by any chance you have money, here on the Riviera is your resource. You can
                        live in a wonderful climate of sun and blue water; you can see nature clad
                        in her daintiest raiment the year round; you can see fashion and
                        cosmopolitan types and exchange the gossip of all the world; you can go to
                        really excellent restaurantsthe best that Europe provides; and for leisure,
                        from ten o'clock in the morning until four or five o'clock
                        the next morning, you can gamble if you choose, gamble silently,
                        indifferently, without hindrance as long as your means endure.
                    If you are of a mathematical or calculating turn of mind you can amuse
                        yourself infinitely by attempting to solve the strange puzzle of chancehow
                        numbers fall and why. It leads off at last, I know, into the abstrusities of
                        chemistry and physics. The esoteric realms of the mystical are not more
                        subtle than the strange abnormalities of psychology that are here indulged
                        in. Certain people are supposed to have a chemical and physical attraction
                        for numbers or cards. Dreams are of great importance. It is bad to sit by a
                        losing person, good to sit by a winning one. Every conceivable eccentricity
                        of thought in relation to personality is here indulged in; and when all is
                        said and done, in spite of the wonders of their cobwebby calculations, it
                        comes to about the same old thingthey win and lose, win and lose, win and
                        lose.
                    Now and then some interesting personalitystranger, youth, celebrity, or
                        otherwins heavily or loses heavily;  in which
                        case, if he plunges fiercely on, his table will be surrounded by a curious
                        throng, their heads craning over each other's shoulders, while he
                        piles his gold on his combinations. Such a man or woman for the time being
                        becomes an intensely dramatic figure. He is aware of the audacity of the
                        thing he is doing, and he moves with conscious gesturesthe manner of a grand
                        seigneur. I saw one such laterin the Cirque priv at Monte
                        Carloa red-bearded man of fiftytall, intense, graceful. It was rumored that
                        he was a prince out of Russiaalmost any one can be a prince out of Russia at
                        Monte Carlo! He had stacks of gold and he distributed it with a lavish hand.
                        He piled it in little golden towers over a score of numbers; and when his
                        numbers fell wrong his towers fell with them, and the croupier raked great
                        masses of metal into his basket. There was not the slightest indication on
                        his pale impassive face that the loss or the gain was of the slightest
                        interest to him. He handed crisp bills to the clerk in charge of the bank
                        and received more gold to play his numbers. When he wearied, after a dozen
                        failuresa breathing throng watching him with moist lips and damp, eager
                        eyeshe rose and strolled forth to another chamber, rolling a cigarette as he
                        went. He had lost thousands and thousands.
                    The next morning it was lovely and sunshiny again; Sitting out on my balcony
                        high over the surrounding land, commanding as it did all of Monte Carlo, the
                        bay of Mentone and Cap Martin, I made many solemn resolutions. This gay life
                        here was meretricious and artificial, I decided. Gambling was a vice, in
                        spite of Sir Scorp's lofty predilection for it; it drew to and
                        around it the allied viciousness of the world, gormandizing, harlotry,
                        wastefulness, vain-glory. I resolved here in the cool morning that I would
                        reform. I would see  something of the
                        surrounding country and then leave for Italy where I would forget all this.
                    I started out with Barfleur about ten to see the Oceanographical Museum and
                        to lunch at the Princess, but the day did not work out exactly as we
                        planned. We visited the Oceanographical Museum; but I found it amazingly
                        dullthe sort of a thing a prince making his money out of gambling would
                        endow. It may have vast scientific ramifications, but I doubt it. A meager
                        collection of insects and dried specimens quickly gave me a headache. The
                        only case that really interested me was the one containing a half-dozen
                        octopi of large size. I stood transfixed before their bulbous centers and
                        dull, muddy, bronze-green arms, studded with suckers. I can imagine nothing
                        so horrible as to be seized upon by one of these things, and I fairly
                        shivered as I stood in front of the case. Barfleur contemplated solemnly the
                        possibility of his being attacked by one of them, monocle and all. He
                        foresaw a swift end to his career.
                    We came out into the sunlight and viewed with relief, by contrast with the
                        dull museum, the very new and commonplace cathedraloh, exceedingly poorly
                        executedand the castle or palace or residence of His Highness, the Prince of
                        Monaco. I cannot imagine why Europe tolerates this man with his fine
                        gambling privileges unless it is that the different governments look with
                        opposition on the thought of any other government having so fine a source of
                        wealth. France should have it by rights; and it would be suitable that the
                        French temperament should conduct such an institution. The palace of the
                        Prince of Monaco was as dull as his church and his museum; and the Monacoan
                        Army drawn up in front of his residence for their morning exercise looked
                        like a company of third-rate French policemen.
                    However I secured as fine an impression of the beauty  of Monaco and the whole coast from this height, as I received
                        at any time during my stay; for it is like the jewel of a ring projecting
                        out of the sea. You climb up to the Oceanographical Museum and the palace by
                        a series of stairways and walks that from time to time bring you out to the
                        sheer edge of the cliff overlooking the blue waters below. There is
                        expensive gardening done here, everywhere; for you find vines and flowers
                        and benches underneath the shade of palms and umbrella trees where you can
                        sit and look out over the sea. Lovely panoramas confront you in every
                        direction; and below, perhaps as far down as three and four hundred feet,
                        you can see and hear the waves breaking and the foam eddying about the
                        rocks. The visitor to Monte Carlo, I fancy, is not greatly disturbed about
                        scenery, however. Such walks as these are empty and still while the Casino
                        is packed to the doors. The gaming-tables are the great center; and to these
                        we ourselves invariably returned.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIX
                    A FIRST GLIMPSE OF ITALY
                    
                        MY days in Monte Carlo after this were only four, exactly.
                        In spite of my solemn resolutions of the morning the spirit of this gemlike
                        world got into my bones by three o'clock; and at four, when we were
                        having tea at the Riviera Palace Hotel high above the Casino, I was
                        satisfied that I should like to stay here for months. Barfleur, as usual,
                        was full of plans for enjoyment; and he insisted that I had not half
                        exhausted the charms of the place. We should go to some old monastery at
                        Laghet where miracles of healing were performed, and to Cannes and Beaulieu
                        in order to see the social life there.
                    A part of one of these days we spent viewing a performance in Mentone.
                        Another day Barfleur and I went to Laghet and Nice, beginning with a
                        luncheon at the Riviera Palace and winding up at the Hotel des Fleurs. The
                        last day we were in the Casino, gambling cheerfully for a little while, and
                        then on the terrace viewing the pigeon shooting, which Barfleur persistently
                        refused to contemplate. This (to me) brutal sport was evidently fascinating
                        to many, for the popping of guns was constant. It is so curious how
                        radically our views differ in this world as to what constitutes evil and
                        good. To Scorp this was a legitimate sport. The birds were ultimately
                        destined for pies anyhow; why not kill them here in this manner? To me the
                        crippling of the perfect winged things was a crime. I would never be one to
                        hold a gun in such a sport.
                    
                    It was this last day in the Caf de Paris that Barfleur and I encountered
                        Marcelle and Mme. Y., our companions of that first dinner in Paris. Barfleur
                        was leaving for London, Scorp was to stay on at Monte Carlo, and for the
                        first time I faced the prospect of traveling alone. Acting on impulse I
                        turned to Marcelle and said: "Come with me as far as
                        Ventimiglia," never thinking for a moment that she would. "Oui," she replied, "oui, oui," and seemed very cheerful over the
                        prospect.
                    Marcelle arrived some fifteen minutes before my train was due, but she was
                        not to speak to me until we were on the train. It took some manuvering to
                        avoid the suspicions of Scorp.
                    Barfleur left for the north at four-thirty, assuring me that we would meet in
                        Paris in April and ride at Fontainebleau, and that we would take a walking
                        tour in England. After he was gone, Scorp and I walked to and fro and then
                        it was that Marcelle appeared. I had to smile as I walked with Scorp,
                        thinking how wrathful he would have been if he had known that every so often
                        we were passing Marcelle, who gazed demurely the other way. The platforms,
                        as usual, were alive with passengers with huge piles of baggage. My train
                        was a half hour late and it was getting dark. Some other train which was not
                        bound for Rome entered, and Marcelle signaled to know whether she, was to
                        get into that. I shook my head and hunted up the Cook's tourist
                        agent, always to be found on these foreign platforms, and explained to him
                        that he was to go to the young lady in the blue suit and white walking-shoes
                        and tell her that the train was a half hour late and ask her if she cared to
                        wait. With quite an American sang-froid he took in the
                        situation at once, and wanted to know how far she was going. I told him
                        Ventimiglia and he advised that she get off at Garaban in order to catch the
                        first train back. He  departed, and presently
                        returned, cutting me out from the company of Sir Scorp by a very wise look
                        of the eye, and informed me that the lady would wait and would go. I
                        promptly gave him a franc for his trouble. My pocket was bulging with
                        Italian silver lire and paper five- and ten-lire pieces which I had secured
                        the day before. Finally my train rolled in and I took one last look at the
                        sea in the fading light and entered. Sir Scorp gave me parting instructions
                        as to simple restaurants that I would find at different places in Italynot
                        the showy and expensive cafs, beloved of Barfleur. He wanted me to save
                        money on food and have my portrait painted by Mancini, which I could have
                        done, he assured me, with a letter from him. He looked wisely around the
                        platform to see that there was no suspicious lady anywhere in the foreground
                        and said he suspected one might be going with me.
                    "Oh, Scorp," I said, "how could you? Besides, I am
                        very poor now."
                    "The ruling passionstrong in poverty," he commented, and
                        waved me a farewell.
                    I walked forward through the train looking for my belongings and encountered
                        Marcelle. She was eager to explain by signs that the Cook's man had
                        told her to get off at Garaban.
                    "M'sieur Thomas Cook, il m'a ditil
                            faut que je descends Garabanpas VentimigliaGaraban." She
                        understood well enough that if she wanted to get back to Monte Carlo early
                        in the evening she would have to make this train, as the next was not before
                        ten o'clock.
                    I led the way to a table in the dining-car still vacant, and we talked as
                        only people can talk who have no common language. By the most astonishing
                        efforts Marcelle made it known that she would not stay at Monte Carlo  very long now, and that if I wanted her to
                        come to Florence when I got there she would. Also she kept talking about
                        Fontainebleau and horseback riding in April. She imitated a smart rider
                        holding the reins with one hand and clucking to the horse with her lips. She
                        folded her hands expressively to show how heavenly it would be. Then she put
                        her right hand over her eyes and waved her left hand to indicate that there
                        were lovely vistas which we could contemplate. Finally she extracted all her
                        bills from the Hotel de Parisand they were astonishingto show me how
                        expensive her life was at Monte Carlo; but I refused to be impressed. It did
                        not make the least difference, however, in her attitude or her mood. She was
                        just as cheerful as ever, and repeated
                        "AvrilFontainebleau," as the train stopped and she stepped
                        off. She reached up and gave me an affectionate farewell kiss. The last I
                        saw of her she was standing, her arms akimbo, her head thrown smartly back,
                        looking after the train.
                    It was due to a railroad wreck about twenty miles beyond Ventimiglia that I
                        owe my acquaintance with one of the most interesting men I have met in
                        years, a man who was very charming to me afterwards in Rome, but before that
                        I should like to relate how I first really entered Italy. One afternoon,
                        several days before, Barfleur and I paid a flying visit to Ventimiglia, some
                        twenty miles over the border, a hill city and the agreed customs entry city
                        between France and Italy. No train leaving France in this region, so I
                        learned, stopped before it reached Ventimiglia, and none leaving Ventimiglia
                        stopped before it entered France, and once there customs inspectors seized
                        upon one and examined one's baggage. If you have no baggage you are
                        almost an object of suspicion in Italy.
                    
                    On the first visit we came to scale the walls of this old city which was much
                        like Eze and commanded the sea from a great eminence. But after Eze it was
                        not Ventimiglia that interested me so much as the fact that Italy was so
                        different from France. In landing at Fish-guard I had felt the astonishing
                        difference between England and the United States. In landing at Calais the
                        atmosphere of England had fallen from me like a cloak and Franceits high
                        color and enthusiasmhad succeeded to it. Here this day, stepping off the
                        train at Ventimiglia only a few miles from Monte Carlo, I was once more
                        astonished at the sharp change that had come over the spirit of man. Here
                        were Italians, not French, dark, vivid, interesting little men who, it
                        seemed to me, were so much more inclined to strut and stare than the French
                        that they appeared to be vain. They were keen, temperamental, avid, like the
                        French but strange to say not so gay, so light-hearted, so devil-may-care.
                    Italy, it seemed to me at once, was much poorer than France and Barfleur was
                        very quick to point it out. "A different people," he
                        commented, "not like the French, much darker and more mysterious.
                        See the carshow poor they are. You will note that everywhere. And the
                        buildings, the trainsthe rolling stock is not so good. Look at the houses.
                        The life here is more poverty-stricken. Italy is poorvery. I like it and I
                        don't. Some things are splendid. My mother adores Rome. I crave the
                        French temperament. It is so much more light-hearted." So he
                        rambled on.
                    It was all trueaccurate and keenly observed. I could not feel that I was
                        anywhere save in a land that was seeking to rehabilitate itself but that had
                        a long way to go. The menthe officials and soldiery of whom there were a
                        legion clad in remarkable and even astonishing uniforms, appealed to my eye,
                        but the souls of them to  begin with, did not
                        take my fancy. I felt them to be suspicious and greedy. Here for the first
                        time I saw the uniform of the Italian bersaglicri:
                        smart-looking in long capes, round hats of shiny leather with glossy green
                        rooster feathers, and carrying short swords.
                    This night as I crossed the border after leaving Garaban I thought of all I
                        had seen the day I came with Barfleur. When we reached Ventimiglia it was
                        pitch dark and being alone and speaking no Italian whatsoever, I was
                        confused by the thought of approaching difficulties.
                    Presently a customs inspector descended on mea large, bearded individual who
                        by signs made me understand that I had to go to the baggage car and open my
                        trunk. I went. Torches supplied the only light: I felt as though I were in a
                        bandit's cave. Yet I came through well enough. Nothing contraband
                        was found. I went back and sat down, plunging into a Baedeker for Italian
                        wisdom and wishing gloomily that I had read more history than I had.
                    Somewhere beyond Ventimiglia the train came to a dead stop in the dark, and
                        the next morning we were still stalled in the same place. I had risen early,
                        under the impression that I was to get out quickly, but was waved back by
                        the porter who repeated over and over, "Beau-coup de
                            retard!" I understood that much but I did not understand
                        what caused it, or that I would not arrive in Pisa until two in the
                        afternoon. I went into the dining-car and there encountered one of the most
                        obstreperous English women that I have ever met. She was obviously of the
                        highly intellectual class, but so haughty in her manner and so loud-spoken
                        in her opinions that she was really offensive. She was having her morning
                        fruit and rolls and some chops and was explaining to a lady, who was with
                        her, much of the character of Italy as she knew it. She was of the type that
                        never accepts  an opinion from any one, but
                        invariably gives her own or corrects any that may be volunteered. At one
                        time I think she must have been attractive, for she was moderately tall and
                        graceful, but her face had become waxy and sallow, and a little thinI will
                        not say hard, although it was anything but ingratiating. My one wish was
                        that she would stop talking and leave the dining-car, she talked so loud;
                        but she stayed on until her friend and her husband arrived. I took him to be
                        her husband by the way she contradicted him.
                    He was a very pleasing, intellectual personthe type of man, I thought, who
                        would complacently endure such a woman. He was certainly not above the
                        medium in height, quite well filled out, and decidedly phlegmatic. I should
                        have said from my first glance that he never took any exercise of any kind;
                        and his face had that interesting pallor which conies from much brooding
                        over the midnight oil. He had large, soft, lustrous gray eyes and a mop of
                        gray hair which hung low over a very high white forehead. I must repeat here
                        that I am the poorest judge of people whom I am going to like of any human
                        being. Now and then I take to a person instantly, and my feeling endures for
                        years. On the other hand I have taken the most groundless oppositions based
                        on nothing at all to people of whom subsequently I have become very fond.
                        Perhaps my groundless opposition in this case was due to the fact that the
                        gentleman was plainly submissive and overborne by his loud-talking wife.
                        Anyhow I gave him a single glance and dismissed him from my thoughts. I was
                        far more interested in a stern, official-looking Englishman with white hair
                        who ordered his bottle of Perrier in a low, rusty voice and cut his orange
                        tip into small bits with a knife.
                    Presently I heard a German explaining to his wife  about a wreck ahead. We were just starting now, perhaps
                        twenty-five or thirty miles from Ventimiglia, and were dashing in and out of
                        rocky tunnels and momentarily bursting into wonderful views of walled caves
                        and sunlit sweeps of sea. The hill-town, the striped basilica with its
                        square, many-arched campanile was coming into view. I was delighted to see
                        open plains bordered in the distance by snow-capped mountains, and dotted
                        sparsely with little huts of stone and brickhow old, Heaven only knows.
                        "Here once the Tuscan shepherds strayed." As Barfleur
                        said, Italy was much poorer than France. The cars and stations seemed
                        shabbier, the dress of the inhabitants much poorer. I saw natives, staring
                        idly at the cars as we flashed past, or taking freight away from the
                        platforms in rude carts drawn by oxen. Many of the vehicles appeared to be
                        rattle-trap, dusty, unpainted; and some miles this side of Genoaour first
                        stopwe ran into a region where it had been snowing and the ground was
                        covered with a wet slushy snowfall. After Monte Carlo, with its lemon and
                        orange trees and its lovely palms, this was a sad comedown; and I could
                        scarcely realize that we were not so much as a hundred miles away and going
                        southward toward Rome at that. I often saw, however, distant hills crowned
                        with a stronghold or a campanile in high browns and yellows, which made up
                        for the otherwise poor foreground. Often we dashed through a cave, protected
                        by high surrounding walls of rock, where the palm came into view again and
                        where one could see how plainly these high walls of stone made for a tropic
                        atmosphere. I heard the loud-voiced English woman saying, "It is
                        such a delight to see the high colors again. England is so dreary. I never
                        feel it so much as when we come down through here."
                    We were passing through a small Italian town, rich i  whites, pinks, browns and blues, a world of clothes-lines
                        showing between rows of buildings, and the crowds, pure Italian in type,
                        plodding to and fro along the streets. It was nice to see windows open here
                        and the sunshine pouring down and making dark shadows. I saw one Italian
                        woman, in a pink-dotted dress partly covered by a bright yellow apron,
                        looking out of a window; and then it was that I first got the tang of
                        Italythe thing that I felt afterwards in Rome and Florence and Assisi and
                        Perugiathat wonderful love of color that is not rampant but just deliciously
                        selective, giving the eye something to feed on when it least expects it.
                        That is Italy!
                    When nearly all the diners had left the car the English lady left also and
                        her husband remained to smoke. He was not so very far removed from me, but
                        he came a little nearer, and said: "The Italians must have their
                        striped churches and their wash lines or they would n't be
                        happy."
                    It was some time before he volunteered another suggestion, which was that the
                        Italians along this part of the coast had a poor region to farm. I got up
                        and left presently because I did not want to have anything to do with his
                        wife. I was afraid that I might have to talk to her, which seemed to me a
                        ghastly prospect.
                    I sat in my berth and read the history of art as it related to Florence,
                        Genoa, and Pisa, interrupting my paragraphs with glances at every
                        interesting scene. The value of the prospect changed first from one side of
                        the train to the other, and I went out into the corridor to open a window
                        and look out. We passed through a valley where it looked as though grapes
                        were flourishing splendidly, and my Englishman came out and told me the name
                        of the place, saying that it was good wine that was made there. He was
                        determined to talk to me  whether I would or
                        no, and so I decided to make to best of it. It just occurred to me that he
                        might be the least bit lonely, and, seeing that I was very curious about the
                        country through which we were passing, that he might know something about
                        Italy. The moment it dawned upon me that he might be helpful to me in this
                        respect I began to ask him questions, and I found h knowledge to be
                        delightfully wide. He knew Ital thoroughly. As we proceeded he described how
                        the country was divided into virtually three valleys, separated by two
                        mountain ranges, and what the lines of its early, almost prehistoric,
                        development, had been. He knew where it was that Shelley had come to spend h
                        summers, and spots that had been preferred by Browning and other famous
                        Englishmen. He talked of the cities that lie in a row down the center of
                        ItalyPerugia, Florence, Bologna, Modena, Piacenza an Milanof the fact that
                        Italy had no educational system whatsoever and that the priests were
                        bitterly opposed to it. He was sorry that I was not going to stop at Spezia
                        because at Spezia the climate was very mild and the gulf very beautiful. He
                        was delighted to think that I was going to stop at Pisa and see the
                        cathedral and the Baptistery. He commented on the charms of
                        Genoacommercialized as it had been these later yearssaying that there was a
                        very beautiful Campo Santo and that some of the palaces of the quarreling
                        Guelphs and Ghibel-lines still remaining were well worth seeing. When passed
                        the quarries of Carrara he told me of their age and of how endless the
                        quantity of marble still was. He was going to Rome with his wife and he
                        wanted to know if I would not look him up, giving me the name of a hotel,
                        where he lived by the season. I caught a note of remarkable erudition; for
                        we fell to discussing religion an priestcraft and the significance of
                        government generally,  and he astonished me by
                        the breadth of his knowledge. We passed to the subject of metaphysics from
                        which all religions spring; and then I saw how truly philosophic and
                        esoteric he was. His mind knew no country, his knowledge no school. He led
                        off by easy stages into vague speculations as to the transcendental
                        character of race impulses; and I knew I had chanced upon a profound scholar
                        as well as a very genial person. I was very sorry now that I had been so
                        rude to him. By the time we reached Pisa we were fast friends, and he told
                        me that he had a distinguished friend, now a resident of Assisi, and that he
                        would give me a letter to him which would bring me charming intellectual
                        companionship for a day or two. I promised to seek him out at his hotel; and
                        as we passed the Leaning Tower and the Baptistery, not so very distant from
                        the railroad track as we entered Pisa, he gave me his card. I recognized the
                        name as connected with some intellectual labors of a most distinguished
                        character and I said so. He accepted the recognition gracefully and asked me
                        to be sure and come. He would show me around Rome.
                    I gathered my bags and stepped out upon the platform at Pisa, eager to see
                        what I could in the few hours that I wished to remain.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXX
                    A STOP AT PISA
                    
                        BAEDEKER says that Pisa has a population of twenty-seven
                        thousand two hundred people and that it is a quiet town. It is. I caught the
                        spell of a score of places like this as I walked out into the open square
                        facing the depot. The most amazing botch of a monument I ever saw in my life
                        I saw here a puffing, swelling, strutting representation of Umberto I, legs
                        apart, whiskers rampant, an amazing cockade, all the details of a gaudy
                        uniform, a breast like a pouter-pigeon outrageous! It was about twelve or
                        thirteen times as large as an ordinary man and not more than twelve or
                        fifteen feet from the ground! He looked like a gorgon, a monster to eat
                        babies, ready to leap upon you with loud cries. I thought, "In
                        Heaven's name! is this what Italy is coming to! How can it brook
                        such an atrocity?"
                    With the spirit of adventure strong within me I decided to find the campanile
                        and the cathedral for myself. I had seen it up the railroad track, and,
                        ignoring appealing guides with urgent, melancholy eyes, I struck up walled
                        streets of brown and gray and green with solid, tight-closed, wooden
                        shutters, cobble pavements and noiseless, empty sidewalks. They were not
                        exactly narrow, which astonished me a little, for I had not learned that
                        only the older portions of growing Italian cities have narrow streets. All
                        the newer sections which surround such modern things as depots are wide and
                        supposedly up to date. There was a handsome trolley-car just leaving as I
                        came out, a wide-windowed shiny thing  which
                        illustrated just how fine trolley-cars can be, even in Italy. I had learned
                        from my Baedeker that Pisa was on the Arno. I wanted to see the Arno because
                        of Florence and Dante. Coming from Ventimiglia I had read the short history
                        of Pisa given in Baedeker its wars with Genoa, the building of its
                        cathedral. It was interesting to learn that the Pisans had expelled the
                        Saracens from Sardinia in 1025, and destroyed their fleet in 1063 near
                        Palermo, that once they were the most powerful adherents of the Ghibellines,
                        and how terribly they were defeated by the Genoese near Leghorn in 1284. I
                        pumped up a vast desire to read endless volumes concerning the history of
                        Italy, now that I was here on the ground, and when it could not be done on
                        the instant. My book told me that the great cathedral was erected after the
                        naval victory of the Pisans at Palermo and that the ancient bronze gates
                        were very wonderful. I knew of the Campo Santo with its sacred earth brought
                        from Palestine, and of the residence here of Niccolo Pisano. His famous
                        hexagonal pulpit in the Baptistery is a commonplace almost as much so as the
                        Leaning Tower. I did not know that Galileo had availed himself of the
                        oblique position of the tower to make his experiments regarding the laws of
                        gravitation until I read it in my precious Baedeker, but it was a fact none
                        the less delightful for encountering it there.
                    Let me here and now, once and for all, sing my praises of Baedeker and his
                        books. When I first went abroad it was with a lofty air that I considered
                        Barfleur's references to the fact that Baedeker on occasion would
                        be of use to me. He wanted me to go through Europe getting my impressions
                        quite fresh and not disturbed by too much erudition such as could be
                        gathered from books. He might have trusted me. My longing for erudition was
                        constantly great, but my willingness to burn the midnight  oil in order to get it was exceedingly small.
                        It was only at the last moment, when I was confronted with some utterly
                        magnificent object, that I thumbed feverishly through my one source of
                        supply the ever-to-be-praised and blessed Karl Baedeker his books. I think
                        the German temperament is at its best when it is gathering all the data
                        about anything and putting it in apple-pie order before you. I defy the most
                        sneering and supercilious scholars and savants to look at these marvelous
                        volumes and not declare them wonderful. There is no color in Baedeker
                        anywhere, no joke, no emotion, no artistic enthusiasm. It is a plain
                        statement of delightful fact fact so pointless without the object before
                        you, so invaluable when you are standing open-mouthed wondering what it is
                        all about! Trust the industrious, the laborious, the stupendous, the
                        painstaking Baedeker to put his finger on the exact fact and tell you not
                        what you might, but what you must, know to really enjoy it. Take this little
                        gem from page 430 of his volume on northern Italy. It concerns the famous
                        Baptistery which I was so eagerly seeking.
                    The interior (visitors knock at the principal entrance; adm. free) rests on
                        eight columns and four piers, above which there is a single triforium. In
                        the center is a marble octagonal Font by Guido Bigarelli
                        of Como (1246) and near it the famous hexagonal PULPIT
                        borne by seven columns, by Niccol Pisano, 1260. The reliefs (comp. p.p.
                        XXXIX, 432) on the pulpit are: (1) Annunciation and Nativity; (2) Adoration
                        of the Magi; (3) Presentation in the Temple; (4) Crucifixion; (5) Last
                        Judgment; in the spandrels, Prophets and Evangelists; above the columns, the
                        Virtues.Fine echo.
                    Dry as dried potatoes, say you. Exactly. But go to Italy without a Baedeker
                        in your hand or precious knowledge stored up from other sources and see what
                        happens. Karl Baedeker is one of the greatest geniuses  Germany has ever produced. He knows how to give you what you
                        want, and has spread the fame of German thoroughness broadcast. I count him
                        a great human benefactor; and his native city ought to erect a monument to
                        him. Its base ought to be a bronze library stand full of bronze Baedekers;
                        and to this good purpose I will contribute freely and liberally according to
                        my means.
                    When I reached the Arno, as I did by following this dull vacant street, I was
                        delighted to stop and look at its simple stone bridges, its muddy yellow
                        water not unlike that of the New River in West Virginia, the plain, still,
                        yellow houses lining its banks as far as I could see. The one jarring note
                        was the steel railroad bridge which the moderns have built over it. It was a
                        little consoling to look at an old moss-covered fortress now occupied as a
                        division headquarters by the Italian army, and at a charming old gate which
                        was part of a fortified palace left over from Pisa's warring days.
                        The potential force of Italy was overcoming me by leaps and bounds, and my
                        mind was full of the old and powerful Italian families of which the Middle
                        Ages are so redolent. I could not help thinking of the fact that the
                        Renaissance had, in a way, its beginning here in the personality of Niccol
                        Pisano, and of how wonderful the future of Italy may yet be. There was an
                        air of fallow sufficiency about it that caused me to feel that, although it
                        might be a dull, unworked field this year or this century, another might see
                        it radiant with power and magnificence. It is a lordly and artistic land and
                        I felt it here at Pisa.
                    Wandering along the banks of the Arno, I came to a spot whence I could see
                        the collection of sacred buildings, far more sacred to art than to religion.
                        They were amazingly impressive, even from this distance, towering  above the low houses. A little nearer,
                        standing on a space of level grass, the boxing of yellow and brown and blue
                        Italian houses about them like a frame, they set my mouth agape with wonder
                        and delight. I walked into Pisa thinking it was too bad that any place so
                        dignified should have fallen so low as to be a dull, poverty-stricken city;
                        but I remained to think that if the Italians are wise (and they are wise and new-born also) they will once more have their
                        tremendous cities and their great artistic inheritances in the bargain. I
                        think now that perhaps of all the lovely things I saw abroad the cathedral
                        and tower and baptistery and campo santo of Pisa grouped as they are in one
                        lovely, spacious, green-sodded area, are the loveliest and most perfect of
                        all. It does not matter to me that the cathedral at Pisa is not a true
                        Gothic cathedral, as some have pointed out. It is better than that it is
                        Italian Gothic; with those amazing artistic conceptions, a bell-tower and a
                        baptistery and a campo santo thrown in. Trust the. Italians to do anything
                        that they do grandly, with a princely lavishness.
                    As I stepped first into this open square with these exquisite jewels of
                        cream-colored stone pulsating under the rays of an evening sun, it was a
                        spectacle that evoked a rare thrill of emotion, such as great art must
                        always evoke. There they stood fretted, fluted, colonnaded, crowded with
                        lovely traceries, studded with lovely marbles, and showing in every line and
                        detail all that loving enthusiasm which is the first and greatest
                        characteristic of artistic genius. I can see those noble old first citizens
                        who wanted Pisa to be great, calling to their aid the genius of such men as
                        Pisano and Bonannus of Pisa and William of Innsbruck and Diotisalvi and all
                        the noble company of talent that followed to plan, to carve, to color and to
                        decorate. To me it is a far more impressive and artistic thing than St.
                        Peter's in Rome. It  has a reserve
                        and an artistic subtlety which exceeds the finest Gothic cathedral in the
                        world. Canterbury, Amiens and Rouen are bursts of imagination and emotion;
                        but the collection of buildings at Pisa is the reserved, subtle, princely
                        calculation of a great architect and a great artist. It does not matter if
                        it represents the handiwork, the judgment and the taste of a hundred men of
                        genius. It may be without the wildfire of a cathedral like that at Cologne,
                        but it approximates the high classic reserve of a temple of Pallas Athene.
                        It is Greek in its dignity and beauty, not Christian and Gothic in its fire
                        and zeal. As I think of it, I would not give it for anything I have seen; I
                        would not have missed it if I had been compelled to sacrifice almost
                        everything else; and the Italian Government has done well to take it and all
                        similar achievements under its protection and to declare that however
                        religion may wax or wane this thing shall not be disturbed. It is a great, a
                        noble, a beautiful thing; and as such should be preserved forever.
                    The interior of the basilica was to me a soothing dream of beauty. There are
                        few interiors anywhere in this world that truly satisfy, but this is one of
                        them. White marble turned yellow by age is gloriously satisfying. This
                        interior, one hundred feet in diameter and one hundred and seventy-nine feet
                        high, has all the smooth perfection of a blown bubble. Its curve recedes
                        upward and inward so gracefully that the eye has no quarrel with any point.
                        My mind was fascinated by the eight columns and four piers which seemingly
                        support it all and by the graceful open gallery or arcade in the wall
                        resting above the arches below. The octagonal baptismal font, so wide and so
                        beautiful, and the graceful pulpit by Pisano, with its seven columns and
                        three friendly-looking lions, is utterly charming. While I stood and stroked
                        the heads of these amiable-looking  beasts, a
                        guide who had seen me enter came in, and without remark of any kind began
                        slowly and clearly to articulate the scale, in order that I might hear the
                        "fine echo" mentioned by Baedeker. Long practice had made
                        him perfect, for by giving each note sufficient space to swell and redouble
                        and quadruple itself he finally managed to fill the great chamber with a
                        charming harmony, rich and full, not unlike that of a wind-harp.
                    If I fell instantly in love with the Baptistery, I was equally moved by the
                        Leaning Tower a perfect thing. If man is wise and thoughtful he can keep the
                        wonders of great beauty by renewing them as they wear; but will he remain
                        wise and thoughtful? So little is thought of true beauty. Think of the guns
                        thundering on the Parthenon and of Napoleon carrying away the horses of St.
                        Mark's! I mounted the steps of the tower (one hundred and
                        seventy-nine feet, the same height as the Baptistery), walking out on and
                        around each of its six balustrades and surveying the surrounding landscape
                        rich in lovely mountains showing across a plain. The tower tilts fourteen
                        feet out of plumb, and as I walked its circular arcades at different heights
                        I had the feeling that I might topple over and come floundering down to the
                        grass below. As I rose higher the view increased in loveliness; and at the
                        top I found an old bell-man who called my attention by signs to the fact
                        that the heaviest of the seven bells was placed on the side opposite the
                        overhanging wall of the tower to balance it. He also pointed in the
                        different directions which presented lovely views, indicating to the west
                        and southwest the mouth of the Arno, the Mediterranean, Leghorn and the
                        Tuscan Islands, to the north the Alps and Mount Pisani where the Carrara
                        quarries are, and to the south, Rome. Some Italian soldiers from the
                        neighboring barracks came up as I went down and entered the cathedral, which
                             interiorly was as beautiful as any which
                        I saw abroad. The Italian Gothic is so much more perfectly spaced on the
                        interior than the Northern Gothic and the great flat roof, coffered in gold,
                        is so much richer and more soothing in its aspect. The whole church is of
                        pure marble yellowed by age, relieved, however, by black and colored bands.
                    I came away after a time and entered the Campo Santo, the loveliest thing of
                        its kind that I saw in Europe. I never knew, strange to relate, that
                        graveyards were made, or could be made, into anything so impressively
                        artistic. This particular ground was nothing more than an oblong piece of
                        grass, set with several cypress trees and surrounded with a marble arcade,
                        below the floor and against the walls of which are placed the marbles, tombs
                        and sarcophagi. The outer walls are solid, windowless and decorated on the
                        inside with those nave, light-colored frescoes of the pupils of Giotto. The
                        inner wall is full of arched, pierced windows with many delicate columns
                        through which you look to the green grass and the cypress trees and the
                        perfectly smooth, ornamented dome at one end. I have paid my tribute to the
                        cypress trees, so I will only say that here, as always, wherever I saw them
                        one or many I thrilled with delight. They are as fine artistically as any of
                        the monuments or bronze doors or carved pulpits or perfect baptismal fonts.
                        They belong where the great artistic impulse of Italy has always put them
                        side by side with perfect things. For me they added the one final, necessary
                        touch to this realm of romantic memory. I see them now and I hear them sigh.
                    I walked back to my train through highly colored, winding, sidewalkless,
                        quaint-angled streets crowded with houses, the faades of which we in America
                        to-day attempt to imitate on our Fifth Avenues and Michigan  Avenues and Rittenhouse Squares. The medieval
                        Italians knew so well what to do with the door and the window and the
                        cornice and the wall space. The size of their window is what they choose to
                        make it, and the door is instinctively put where it will give the last touch
                        of elegance. How often have I mentally applauded that selective artistic
                        discrimination and reserve which will use one panel of colored stone or one
                        niche or one lamp or one window, and no more. There is space lots of it
                        unbroken until you have had just enough; and then it will be relieved just
                        enough by a marble plaque framed in the walls, a coat-of-arms, a window, a
                        niche. I would like to run on in my enthusiasm and describe that gem of a
                        palace that is now the Palazzo Communale at Perugia, but I wall refrain.
                        Only these streets in Pisa were rich with angles and arcades and wonderful
                        doorways and solid plain fronts which were at once substantial and elegant.
                        Trust the Italian of an older day to do well whatever he did at all; and I
                        for one do not think that this instinct is lost. It will burst into flame
                        again in the future; or save greatly what it already possesses.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXI
                    FIRST IMPRESSIONS OF ROME
                    
                        AS we approached Rome in the darkness I was on the qui
                        vive for my first glimpse of it; and impatient with wonder as to what the
                        morning would reveal. I was bound for the Hotel Continental the abode, for
                        the winter at least, of Barfleur's mother, the widow of an Oxford
                        don. I expected to encounter a severe and conservative lady of great
                        erudition who would eye the foibles of Paris and Monte Carlo with severity.
                    "My mother," Barfleur said, "is a very
                        conservative person. She is greatly concerned about me. When you see her,
                        try to cheer her up, and give her a good report of me. I don't
                        doubt you will find her very interesting; and it is just possible that she
                        will take a fancy to you. She is subject to violent likes and
                        dislikes."
                    I fancied Mrs. Barfleur as a rather large woman with a smooth placid
                        countenance, a severe intellectual eye that would see through all my shams
                        and make-believes on the instant.
                    It was midnight before the train arrived. It was raining; and as I pressed my
                        nose to the window-pane viewing the beginning lamps, I saw streets and
                        houses come into view apartment houses, if you please, and street cars and
                        electric arc-lights, and asphalt-paved streets, and a general atmosphere of
                        modernity. We might have been entering Cleveland for any particular
                        variation it presented. But just when I was commenting to myself on the
                        strangeness of entering ancient Rome in a modern compartment car and of
                        seeing box cars and engines,  coal cars and
                        flat cars loaded with heavy material, gathered on a score of parallel
                        tracks, a touch of the ancient Rome came into view for an instant and was
                        gone again in the dark and rain. It was an immense, desolate tomb, its
                        arches flung heavenward in great curves, its rounded dome rent and jagged by
                        time. Nothing but ancient Rome could have produced so imposing a ruin and it
                        came over me in an instant, fresh and clear like an electric shock, like a
                        dash of cold water, that this was truly all that was left of the might and
                        glory of an older day. I recall now with delight the richness of that
                        sensation. Rome that could build the walls and the baths in far Manchester
                        and London, Rome that could occupy the Ile-St.-Louis in Paris as an outpost,
                        that could erect the immense column to Augustus on the heights above Monte
                        Carlo, Rome that could reach to the uppermost waters of the Nile and the
                        banks of the Tigris and Euphrates and rule, was around me. Here it was the
                        city to which St. Paul had been brought, where St. Peter had sat as the
                        first father of the Church, where the first Latins had set up their shrine
                        to Romulus and Remus, and worshiped the she-wolf that had nourished them.
                        Yes, this was Rome, truly enough, in spite of the apartment houses and the
                        street cars and the electric lights. I came into the great station at five
                        minutes after twelve amid a clamor of Italian porters and a crowd of
                        disembarking passengers. I made my way to the baggage-room, looking for a
                        Cook's guide to inquire my way to the Continental, when I was
                        seized upon by one.
                    "Are you Mr. Dreiser?" he said.
                    I replied that I was.
                    "Mrs. Barfleur told me to say that she was waiting for you and that
                        you should come right over and inquire for her."
                    I hurried away, followed by a laboring porter, and  found her waiting for me in the hotel lobby, not the large,
                        severe person I had imagined, but a small, enthusiastic, gracious little
                        lady. She told me that my room was all ready and that the bath that I had
                        demanded was connected with it, and that she had ordered some coffee sent
                        up, but that I could have anything else that I chose. She began with a flood
                        of questions how was her poor dear son, and her daughter in London? And had
                        we lost much money at Monte Carlo? And had we been very nice and quiet in
                        Paris? And had I had a pleasant trip? And was it very cold in Paris? And
                        would I like to go with her here and there for a few days, particularly
                        until I was acclimated and able to find my own way about? I answered her
                        freely and rapidly, for I took a real liking to her and decided at once that
                        I was going to have a very nice time she was so motherly and friendly. It
                        struck me as delightful that she should wait up for me, and see that I was
                        welcomed and comfortably housed; I can see her now with a loving memory in
                        her charming gray silk dress and black lace shawl.
                    The first morning I arose in Rome it was raining; but to my joy, in an hour
                        or two the sun came out and I saw a very peculiar city. Rome has about the
                        climate of Monte Carlo, except that it is a little more changeable, and in
                        the mornings and evenings quite chill. Around noon every day it was very
                        warm almost invariably bright, deliciously bright; but dark and cool where
                        the buildings or the trees cast a shadow. I was awakened by huzzaing which I
                        learned afterwards was for some officer who had lately returned from
                        Morocco.
                    Like the English, the Italians are not yet intimately acquainted with the
                        bathroom, and this particular hotel reminded me of the one in Manchester
                        with its bath chambers as large as ordinary living-rooms. My room looked out
                        into an inner court, which was superimposed 
                        upon the lobby of the hotel, and was set with palms and flowers which
                        flourished mightily. I looked out through an opening in this court to some
                        brown buildings over the way brown as only the Italians know how to paint
                        them, and bustling with Italian life.
                    Mrs. Barfleur had kindly volunteered to show me about this first day, and I
                        was to meet her promptly at ten in the lobby. She wanted me to take a street
                        car to begin with, because there was one that went direct to St.
                        Peter's along the Via Nazionale, and because there were so many
                        things she could show me that way. We went out into the public square which
                        adjoined the hotel and there it was that she pointed out the Museo delle
                        Terme, located in the ancient baths of Diocletian, and assured me that the
                        fragments of wall that I saw jutting out from between buildings in one or
                        two places dated from the Roman Empire. The fragment of the wall of Servius
                        Tullius which we encountered in the Via Nazionale dates from 578 B. C, and
                        the baths of Diocletian, so close to the hotel, from 303 A. D. The large
                        ruin that I had seen the night before on entering the city was a temple to
                        Minerva Medica, dating from about 250 A. D. I shall never forget my
                        sensation on seeing modern stores drug stores, tobacco stores, book stores,
                        all with bright clean windows, adjoining these very ancient ruins. It was
                        something for the first time to see a fresh, well-dressed modern throng
                        going about its morning's business amid these rude suggestions of a
                        very ancient life.
                    Nearly all the traces of ancient Rome, however, were apparently obliterated,
                        and you saw only busy, up-to-date thoroughfares, with street cars, shops,
                        and a gay metropolitan life generally. I have to smile when I think that I
                        mistook a section of the old wall of Servius Tullius for the remnants of a
                        warehouse which had recently  been removed.
                        All the time in Rome I kept suffering this impression that I was looking at
                        something which had only recently been torn down, when as a matter of fact I
                        was looking at the earlier or later walls of the ancient city or the
                        remnants of famous temples and baths. This particular street car line on
                        which we were riding was a revelation in its way, for it was full of
                        black-frocked priests in shovel hats, monks in brown cowls and sandals, and
                        Americans and English old maids in spectacles who carried their Baedekers
                        with severe primness and who were, like ourselves, bound for the Vatican.
                        The conductors, it struck me, were a trifle more civil than the American
                        brand, but not much; and the native passengers were a better type of Italian
                        than we usually see in America. I sighted the Italian policeman at different
                        points along the way not unlike the Parisian gendarme in his high cap and
                        short cape. The most striking characteristic, however, was the great number
                        of priests and soldiers who were much more numerous than policemen and taxi
                        drivers in New York. It seemed to me that on this very first morning I saw
                        bands of priests going to and fro in all directions, but, for the rest of
                        it, Rome was not unlike Monte Carlo and Paris combined, only that its
                        streets were comparatively narrow and its colors high.
                    Mrs. Barfleur was most kindly and industrious in her explanations. She told
                        me that in riding down this Via Nazionale we were passing between those
                        ancient hills, the Quirinale and the Viminale, by the Forum of Trajan, the
                        Gallery of Modern Art, the palaces of the Aldobrandini and Rospigliosi, and
                        a score of other things which I have forgotten. When we reached the open
                        square which faces St. Peter's, I expected to be vastly impressed
                        by my first glimpse of the first Roman Church of the world; but in. a way I
                        was very much disappointed. To me it was not in the least beautiful, as
                        Canterbury was  beautiful, as Amiens was
                        beautiful, and as Pisa was beautiful. I was not at all enthusiastic over the
                        semicircular arcade in front with its immense columns. I knew that I ought
                        to think it was wonderful, but I could not. I think in a way that the
                        location and arrangement of the building does not do it justice, and it has
                        neither the somber gray of Amiens nor the delicate creamy hue of the
                        buildings of Pisa. It is brownish and gray by turns. As I drove nearer I
                        realized that it was very large astonishingly large and that by some
                        hocus-pocus of perspective and arrangement this was not easily realizable. I
                        was eager to see its interior, however, and waived all exterior
                        consideration until later.
                    As we were first going up the steps of St. Peter's and across the
                        immense stone platform that leads to the door, a small Italian wedding-party
                        arrived, without any design of being married there, however; merely to visit
                        the various shrines and altars. The gentleman was somewhat self-conscious in
                        a long black frock coat and high hat a little, brown, mustached, dapper man
                        whose patent leather shoes sparkled in the sun. The lady was a rosy Italian
                        girl, very much belaced and besilked, with a pert, practical air; a little
                        velvet-clad page carried her train. There were a number of friends the
                        parents on both sides, I took it and some immediate relatives who fell
                        solemnly in behind, two by two; and together this little ant-like band
                        crossed the immense threshold. Mrs. Barfleur and I followed eagerly after or
                        at least I did, for I fancied they were to be married here and I wanted to
                        see how it was to be done at St. Peter's. I was disappointed,
                        however; for they merely went from altar to altar and shrine to shrine,
                        genuflecting, and finally entered the sacred crypt, below which the bones of
                        St. Peter are supposed to be buried. It was a fine religious beginning to
                        what I trust has proved a happy union.
                    
                    St. Peter's, if I may be permitted to continue a little on that
                        curious theme, is certainly the most amazing church in the world. It is not
                        beautiful I am satisfied that no true artist would grant that; but after you
                        have been all over Europe and have seen the various edifices of importance,
                        it still sticks in your mind as astounding, perhaps the most astounding of
                        all. While I was in Rome I learned by consulting guide-books, attending
                        lectures and visiting the place myself, that it is nothing more than a
                        hodge-podge of the vagaries and enthusiasms of a long line of able pontiffs.
                        To me the Catholic Church has such a long and messy history of intrigue and
                        chicanery that I for one cannot contemplate its central religious
                        pretensions with any peace of mind. I am not going into the history of the
                        papacy, nor the internecine and fratricidal struggles of medieval Italy; but
                        what veriest tyro does not grasp the significance of what I mean? Julius II,
                        flanking a Greek-cross basilica with a hexastyle portico to replace the
                        Constantinian basilica, which itself had replaced the oratory of St.
                        Anacletus on this spot, and that largely to make room for his famous tomb
                        which was to be the finest thing in it; Urban VIII melting down the copper
                        roof of the Panthon portico in order to erect the showy baldachino! I do not
                        now recall what ancient temples were looted for marble nor what popes did
                        the looting, but that it was plentifully done I am satisfied and Van Ranke
                        will bear me out. It was Julius II and Leo X who resorted to the sale of
                        indulgences, which aided in bringing about the Reformation, for the purpose
                        of paying the enormous expenses connected with the building of this lavish
                        structure. Think of how the plans of Bramante and Michelangelo and Raphael
                        and Carlo Maderna were tossed about between the Latin cross and the Greek
                        cross and between a portico of one form and a portico  of another form! Wars, heartaches, struggles, contentions
                        these are they of which St. Peter's is a memorial. As I looked at
                        the amazing length six hundred and fifteen feet and the height of the nave
                        one hundred and fifty-two feet and the height of the dome from the pavement
                        in the interior to the roof four hundred and five feet and saw that the
                        church actually contained forty-six immense altars and read that it
                        contained seven hundred and forty-eight columns of marble, stone or bronze,
                        three hundred and eighty-six statues and two hundred and ninety windows, I
                        began to realize how astounding the whole thing was. It was really so large,
                        and so tangled historically, and so complicated in the history of its
                        architectural development, that it was useless for me to attempt to
                        synchronize its significance in my mind. I merely stared, staggered by the
                        great beauty and value of the immense windows, the showy and astounding
                        altars. I came back again and again; but I got nothing save an unutterable
                        impression of overwhelming grandeur. It is far too rich in its composition
                        for mortal conception. No one, I am satisfied, truly completely realizes how
                            grandit is. It answers to that word exactly.
                        Browning's poem, "The Bishop Orders His Tomb at St.
                        Praxed's," gives a faint suggestion of what any least bit
                        of it is like. Any single tomb of any single pope of which it seemed to me
                        there were no end might have had this poem written about it. Each one
                        appears to have desired a finer tomb than the other; and I can understand
                        the eager enthusiasm of Sixtus V (1588), who kept eight hundred men working
                        night and day on the dome in order to see how it was going to look. And well
                        he might. Murray tells the story of how on one occasion, being in want of
                        another receptacle for water, the masons tossed the body of Urban VI out of
                        his sarcophagus, put aside his bones in a corner, and  gave the ring on his finger to the architect. The
                        pope's remains were out of their receptacle for fifteen years or
                        more before they were finally restored.
                    The Vatican sculptural and art museums were equally astonishing. I had always
                        heard of its eleven hundred rooms and its priceless collections; but it was
                        thrilling and delightful to see them face to face, all the long line of
                        Greek and Roman and medieval perfections, chiseled or painted, transported
                        from ruins or dug from the earth such wonders as the porphyry vase and
                        Laocoon, taken from the silent underground rooms of Nero's house,
                        where they had stood for centuries, unheeded, in all their perfection; and
                        the river god, representative of the Tiber. I was especially interested to
                        see the vast number of portrait busts of Roman personalities known and
                        unknown which gave me a face-to-face understanding of that astounding
                        people. They came back now or arose vital before me Claudius, Nerva,
                        Hadrian, Faustina the elder, wife of Antoninus Pius, Pertinax, whose
                        birthplace was near Monte Carlo, Julius Caesar, Cicero, Antoninus Pius,
                        Tiberius, Mark Antony, Aurelius Lepidus, and a score of others. It was
                        amazing to me to see how like the modern English and Americans they were,
                        and how practical and present-day-like they appeared. It swept away the
                        space of two thousand years as having no significance whatever, and left you
                        face to face with the far older problem of humanity. I could not help
                        thinking that the duplicates of these men are on our streets to-day in New
                        York and Chicago and London urgent, calculating, thinking figures and that
                        they are doing to-day much as these forerunners did two thousand years
                        before. I cannot see the slightest difference between an emperor like
                        Hadrian and a banker like Morgan. And the head of a man like Lord Salisbury
                        is to be found duplicated in a score of sculptures  in various museums throughout the Holy City. I realized, too,
                        that any one of hundreds of these splendid marbles, if separated from their
                        populous surroundings and given to a separate city, meager in artistic
                        possessions, would prove a great public attraction. To him that hath shall
                        be given, however; and to those that have not shall be taken away even the
                        little that they have. And so it is that Rome fairly suffocates with its
                        endless variety of artistic perfection one glory almost dimming the other
                        while the rest of the world yearns for a crust of artistic beauty and has
                        nothing. It is like the Milky Way for jewels as contrasted with those vast
                        starless spaces that give no evidence of sidereal life.
                    I wandered in this region of wonders attended by my motherly friend until it
                        was late in the afternoon, and then we went for lunch. Being new to Rome, I
                        was not satisfied with what I had seen, but struck forth again coming next
                        into the region of Santa Maria Maggiore and up an old stairway that had
                        formed a part of a Medici palace now dismantled only to find myself shortly
                        thereafter and quite by accident in the vicinity of the Colosseum. I really
                        had not known that I was coming to it, for I was not looking for it. I was
                        following idly the lines of an old wall that lay in the vicinity of San
                        Pietro in Vincoli when suddenly it appeared, lying in a hollow at the foot
                        of a hill the Esquiline. I was rejoicing in having discovered an old well
                        that I knew must be of very ancient date, and a group of cypresses that
                        showed over an ancient wall, when I looked and there it was. It was exactly
                        as the pictures have represented it oval, many-arched, a thoroughly
                        ponderous ruin. I really did not gain a suggestion of the astonishing size
                        of it until I came down the hill, past tin cans that were lying on the grass
                        a sign  of the modernity that possesses
                        Romeand entered through one of the many arches. Then it came on methe
                        amazing thickness of the walls, the imposing size and weight of the
                        fragments, the vast dignity of the uprising flights of seats, and the great
                        space now properly cleared, devoted to the arena. All that I ever knew or
                        heard of it came back as I sat on the cool stones and looked about me while
                        other tourists walked leisurely about, their Baedekers in their hands. It
                        was a splendid afternoon. The sun was shining down in here; and it was as
                        warm as though it were May in Indiana. Small patches of grass and moss were
                        detectable everywhere, growing soft and green between the stones. The five
                        thousand wild beasts slaughtered in the arena at its dedication, which
                        remained as a thought from my high-school days, were all with me. I read up
                        as much as I could, watching several workmen lowering themselves by ropes
                        from the top of the walls, the while they picked out little tufts of grass
                        and weeds beginning to flourish in the earthy niches. Its amazing
                        transformations from being a quarry for greedy popes by whom most of its
                        magnificent marbles were removed, to its narrow escape from becoming a
                        woolen-mill operated by Sixtus V, were all brooded over here. It was
                        impossible not to be impressed by the thought of the emperors sitting on
                        their especial balcony; the thousands upon thousands of Romans intent upon
                        some gladiatorial feat; the guards outside the endless doors, the numbers of
                        which can still be seen, giving entrance to separate sections and tiers of
                        seats; and the vast array of civic life which must have surged about. I
                        wondered whether there were venders who sold sweets or food and what their
                        cries were in Latin. One could think of the endless procession that wound
                        its way here on gala days. Time works melancholy changes.
                    
                    I left as the sun was going down, tremendously impressed with the wonder of a
                        life that is utterly gone. It was like finding the glistening shell of an
                        extinct beetle or the suggestion in rocks of a prehistoric world. As I
                        returned to my hotel along the thoroughly modern streets with their five-
                        and six-story tenement and apartment buildings, their street cars and
                        customary vehicles, their newspaper, flower and cigar stands, I tried to
                        restore and keep in my mind a suggestion of the magnificence that Gibbon
                        makes so significant. It was hard; for be one's imagination what it
                        will, it is difficult to live outside of one's own day and hour.
                        The lights already beginning to flourish in the smart shops, distracted my
                        mood.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXII
                    MRS. Q. AND THE BORGIA FAMILY
                    "I AM going to introduce you to such a nice
                        woman," Mrs. Barfleur told me the second morning I was in Rome, in
                        her very enthusiastic way. "She is charming. I am sure you will
                        like her. She comes from America somewhereNew York, I think. Her husband is
                        an author, I believe. I heard so." She chattered on in her genial,
                        talk-making way. "I don't understand these American women;
                        they go traveling about Europe without their husbands in such a strange way.
                        Now, you know in England we would not think of doing anything of that
                        kind."
                    Mrs. Barfleur was decidedly conservative in her views and English in manner
                        and speech, but she had the saving proclivity of being intensely interested
                        in life, and realized that all is not gold that glitters. She preferred to
                        be among people who know and maintain good form, who are interested in
                        maintaining the social virtues as they stand accepted and who, if they do
                        not actually observe all of the laws and tenets of society, at least
                        maintain a deceiving pretense. She had a little coterie of friends in the
                        hotel, as I found, and friends outside, such as artists, newspaper
                        correspondents and officials connected with the Italian court and the papal
                        court. I never knew a more industrious social mentor in the shape of a
                        woman, though among men her son outstripped her. She was apparently here,
                        there and everywhere about the hotel, in the breakfast-room, in the
                        dining-room, in the card-room, in the writing-room, greeting her friends,
                        planning games, planning engagements, planning sightseeing  trips. She was pleasant, too; delightful; for
                        she knew what to do and when to do it, and if she was not impelled by a
                        large constructive motive of any kind, nevertheless she had a sincere and
                        discriminating love of the beautiful which caused her to excuse much for the
                        sake of art. I found her well-disposed, kindly, sympathetic and very anxious
                        to make the best of this sometimes dull existence, not only for herself, but
                        for every one else. I liked her very much.
                    Mrs. Q. I found on introduction, to be a beautiful woman of perhaps
                        thirty-three or four, with two of the healthiest, prettiest, best-behaved
                        children I have ever seen. I found her to be an intellectual and brilliant
                        woman with an overwhelming interest in the psychology of history and current
                        human action.
                    "I trust I see an unalienated American," I observed as Mrs.
                        Barfleur brought her forward, encouraged by her brisk, quizzical smile.
                    "You do, you do," she replied smartly, "as yet.
                        Nothing has happened to my Americanism except Italy, and that's
                        only a second love."
                    She had a hoarse little laugh which was nevertheless agreeable. I felt the
                        impact of a strong, vital temperament, self-willed, self-controlled,
                        intensely eager and ambitious. I soon discovered she was genuinely
                        interested in history, which is one of my great failings and delights. She
                        liked vital, unillusioned biography such as that of Jean Jacques
                        Rousseau's Confessions, Cellini's Diary, and the personal
                        reminiscences of various court favorites in different lands. She was
                        interested in some plays, but cared little for fiction, which I take to be
                        commendable. Her great passion at the moment, she told me, was the tracing
                        out in all its ramifications of the history and mental attitude of the
                        Borgia family especially Csar and Lucreziawhich I look upon as a remarkable
                             passion for a woman. It takes a strong,
                        healthy, clear-thinking temperament to enjoy the mental vagaries of the
                        Borgiasfather, son and daughter. She had conceived a sincere admiration for
                        the courage, audacity, passion and directness of action of Csar, to say
                        nothing of the lymphatic pliability and lure of Lucrezia, and the strange
                        philosophic anarchism and despotic individualism of their father, Alexander
                        VI.
                    I wonder how much the average reader knows of the secret history of the
                        Borgias. It is as modern as desire, as strange as the strangest vagaries of
                        which the mind is capable. I am going to give here the outline of the Borgia
                        family history as Mrs. Q. crisply related it to me, on almost the first
                        evening we met, for I, like so many Americans, while knowing something of
                        these curious details in times past had but the haziest recollection then.
                        To be told it in Rome itself by a breezy American who used the vernacular
                        and who simply could not suppress her Yankee sense of humor, was as
                        refreshing an experience as occurred in my whole trip. Let me say first that
                        Mrs. Q. admired beyond words the Italian subtlety, craft, artistic insight,
                        political and social wisdom, governing ability, and as much as anything
                        their money-getting and money-keeping capacities. The raw practicality of
                        this Italian family thrilled her.
                    You will remember that Rodrigo Lanzol, a Spaniard who afterwards assumed the
                        name of Rodrigo Borgia, because his maternal uncle of that name was
                        fortunate enough to succeed to the papacy as Calixtus III, and could do him
                        many good turns afterwards, himself succeeded to the papacy by bribery and
                        other outrages under the title of Alexander VI. That was August 10, 1442.
                        Before that, however, as nephew to Calixtus III, he had been made bishop,
                        cardinal, and vice-chancellor of the Church solely because he was a relative
                        and favored by his uncle; and all this before he was thirty-five. He had
                        proceeded to Rome, established himself with many mistresses at  his call in a magnificent palace, and at the
                        age of thirty-seven, his uncle Calixtus III having died, was reprimanded by
                        Pius II, the new pope, for his riotous and adulterous life. By 1470, when he
                        was forty-nine he took to himself, as his favorite, Vanozza dei Cattani, the
                        former wife of three different husbands. By Vanozza, who was very charming,
                        he had four children, all of whom he prized highlyGiovanni, afterwards Duke
                        of Gandia, born 1474; Csar, 1476; Lucrezia, 1480; Geoffreddo or Giuffr, born
                        1481 or 1482. There were other childrenGirolamo, Isabella and Pier Luigi,
                        whose parentage on the mother's side is uncertain; and still
                        another child, Laura, whom he acquired via Giulia Farnese, the daughter of
                        the famous family of that name, who was his mistress after he tired, some
                        years later, of Vanozza. Meanwhile his children had grown up or were fairly
                        well-grown when he became pope, which opened the most astonishing chapter of
                        the history of this strange family.
                    Alexander was a curious compound of paternal affection, love of gold, love of
                        women, vanity, and other things. He certainly was fond of his children or he
                        would not have torn Italy with dissension in order to advantage them in
                        their fortunes. His career is the most ruthless and weird of any that I
                        know.
                    He was no sooner pope (about April, 1493) than he proposed to carve out
                        careers for his familyhis favored children by his favorite mistress. In
                        1492, the same year he was made pope, he created Csar, his sixteen-year-old
                        son, studying at Pisa, a cardinal, showing the state of the papacy in those
                        days. He proposed to marry his daughter Lucrezia well, and having the year
                        before, when she was only eleven, betrothed her to one Don Cherubin de
                        Centelles, a Spaniard, he broke this arrangement and had Lucrezia married by
                        proxy to Don Gasparo de Procida, son of the Count of Aversa, a man of much
                        more importance, who, he thought, could better advance her fortune.
                    Italy, however, was in a very divided and disorganized state. There was a
                        King of Naples, a Duke of Venice, a Duke of Milan, a separate state life at
                        Pisa, Genoa, Florence and elsewhere. In order to build himself up and become
                        very powerful, and to give preferment to each of his sons, some of these
                        states had to be conquered and controlled; and so the old gentleman, without
                        conscience and without mercy except as suited his whim, was for playing
                        politics, making war, exercising treachery, murdering, poisoning,
                        persuading, bribinganything  and everything to
                        obtain his ends. He must have been well thought of as a man of his word, for
                        when he had made a deal with Charles VIII of France to assist him in
                        invading and conquering Naples, the king demanded and obtained Csar,
                        Alexander's son, aged twenty-one, as a hostage for faithful
                        performance of agreement. He had not taken him very far, however, before the
                        young devil escaped and returned to Rome, where subsequently his father,
                        finding it beneficial to turn against the King of France, did so.
                    But to continue. While his father was politicking and trafficking in this way
                        for the benefit of himself and his dear family, young Csar was beginning to
                        develop a few thoughts and tendencies of his own. Alexander VI was planning
                        to create fiefs or dukedoms out of the papal states and out of the Kingdom
                        of Naples and give them to his eldest son, Giovanni, and his youngest,
                        Giuffr. Csar would have none of this. He saw himself as a young cardinal
                        being left out in the cold. Besides, there was a cause of friction between
                        him and his brother Giovanni over the affections of their youngest brother
                        Giuffr's wife, Sancha. They were both sharing the latter's
                        favors, and so one day, in order to clear matters up and teach his father
                        (whose favorite he was) where to bestow his benefits and so that he might
                        have Sancha all to himselfhe murdered his brother Giovanni. The
                        latter's body, after a sudden and strange absence, was found in the
                        Tiber, knife-marked, and all was local uproar until the young cardinal was
                        suspected, when matters quieted down and nothing more was thought of it.
                        There was also thought to be some rivalry between Csar and Giovanni over the
                        affections of their sister Lucrezia.
                    After this magnificent evidence of ability, the way was clear for Csar. He
                        was at once (July, 1497) sent as papal legate to Naples to crown Frederick
                        of Aragon; and it was while there that he met Carlotta, the daughter of the
                        king, and wanted to marry her. She would have none of him. "What,
                        marry that priest, that bastard of a priest!" she is alleged to
                        have said; and that settled the matter. This may have had something to do
                        with Csar's desire to get out of Holy Orders and return to civil
                        life, for the next year (1498) he asked leave of the papal consistory not to
                        be a cardinal any longer and was granted this privilege "for the
                        good of his soul." He then undertook the pleasant task, as papal
                        legate, of carrying to Louis XII of  France
                        the pope's bull annulling the marriage of Louis with Jeanne of
                        France in order that he might marry Anne of Brittany. On this journey he met
                        Charlotte d'Albret, sister of the King of Navarre, whom he married.
                        He was given the duchy of Valentinois for his gracious service to Louis XII
                        and, loaded with honors, returned to Rome in order to further his personal
                        fortunes with his father's aid.
                    In the meanwhile there were a number of small principalities in Romagna, a
                        territory near Milan, which his father Alexander VI was viewing with a
                        covetous eye. One of these was controlled by Giovanni Sforza, Lord of
                        Pesaro, whom Alexander, at a time when he wanted to pit the strength of
                        Milan against the subtle machinations of the King of Naplescaused Lucrezia
                        his daughter, then only thirteen years of age, to marry, her union with the
                        Count of Aversa having by this time been severed. Alexander having won the
                        friendship of the King of Naples, he decided to proceed against the
                        princelings of Romagna and confiscated their property. Csar was tolled off
                        as general to accomplish this for himself, being provided men and means.
                        Young Sforza, who had married Lucrezia, found himself in a treacherous
                        position,his own brother-in-law, with the assistance of his father-in-law,
                        plotting against his life,and fled with his wife, the fair Lucrezia, aged
                        fifteen, to Pesaro. There he was fought by Csar who, however, not having
                        sufficient troops was checked for the time being and returned to Rome. A
                        year or so later, Pope Alexander being in a gentler frame of mindit was
                        Christmas and he desired all his children about himinvited them all home,
                        including Lucrezia and her husband. Then followed a series of magnificent
                        ftes and exhibitions in honor of all this at Rome, and the family, including
                        the uncertain son-in-law, husband of Lucrezia, seemed to be fairly well
                        united in bonds of peace.
                    Unfortunately, however, a little later (1497) the pope's mood
                        changed again. He was now, after some intermediate quarrels, once more
                        friendly with the King of Naples and decided that Sforza was no longer a fit
                        husband for Lucrezia. Then came the annulment of this marriage and the
                        remarriage of Lucrezia to Alphonso of Aragon, Duke of Bisceglie, a relative
                        and favorite of the King of Naples, aged eighteen and handsome. But, alas!
                        no sooner is this fairly begun than new complications arise. The pope thinks
                        he sees an opportunity to  destroy the power
                        of Naples as a rival with the aid of the King of France, Louis XII. He lends
                        assistance to the latter, who comes to invade Naples, and young Bisceglie,
                        now fearing for his life at the hands of his treacherous father-in-law,
                        deserts Rome and Lucrezia and flees. Louis XII proceeds against Naples.
                        Spoleto falls and Lucrezia, Bisceglie's wife, as representative of
                        the pope (aged eighteen) is sent to receive the homage of Spoleto!
                    But the plot merely thickens. There comes a nice point in here on which
                        historians comment variously. Incest is the basis. It was one time assumed
                        that Alexander, the father, during all these various shifts treated his
                        daughter as his mistress. Her brother Csar also bore the same relation to
                        her. Father and son were rivals, then, for the affections and favors of the
                        daughter-sister. To offset the affections of the son the father has the
                        daughter lure her husband, Bisceglie, back to Rome. From all accounts he was
                        very much in love with his wife who was beautiful but dangerous because of
                        her charms and the manner in which she was coveted by others. In 1499, when
                        he was twenty and Csar twenty-three, he was lured back and the next year,
                        because of Csar's jealousy of his monopoly of his own wife (Csar
                        being perhaps denied his usual freedom) Bisceglie was stabbed while going up
                        the steps of the papal palace by Csar Borgia, his brother-in-law, and that
                        in the presence of his father-in-law, Alexander VI, the pope of Rome.
                        According to one account, on sight of Csar, jumping out from behind a
                        column, Alphonso sought refuge behind Alexander, the pope, who spread out
                        his purple robe to protect him, through which Csar drove his knife into the
                        bosom of his brother-in-law. The dear old father and father-in-law was
                        severely shocked. He was quite depressed, in fact. He shook his head
                        dismally. The wound was not fatal, however. Bisceglie was removed to the
                        house of a cardinal near-by, where he was attended by his wife, Lucrezia,
                        and his sister-in-law, Sancha, wife of Giuffr, both of whom he apparently
                        feared a little, for they were compelled first to partake of all food
                        presented in order to prove that it was not poisoned. In this housein this
                        sick-chamber doorwaysuddenly and unexpectedly one day there appears the
                        figure of Csar. The ensuing scene (Lucrezia and Sancha present) is not
                        given. Bisceglie is stabbed in his bed and this time dies. Is the crime  avenged? Not at all. This is Papa
                        Alexander's own dominion. This is a family affair, and father is
                        very fond of Csar, so the matter is hushed up.
                    Witness the interesting final chapters. Csar goes off, October, 1500, to
                        fight the princes in Romagna once more, among whom are Giovanni, and Sforza,
                        one of Lucrezia's ex-husbands. July, 1501, Alexander leaves the
                        papal palace in Rome to fight the Colonna, one of the two powerful families
                        of Rome, with the assistance of the other powerful family, the Orsini. In
                        his absence Lucrezia, his beloved, is acting-pope! January first (or
                        thereabouts), 1501, Lucrezia is betrothed to Alphonso, son and heir to
                        Ercole d'Este, whose famous villa near Rome is still to be seen.
                        Neither Alphonso nor his father was anxious for this union, but Papa
                        Alexander, Pope of Rome, has set his heart on it. By bribes and threats he
                        brings about a proxy marriageAlphonso not being presentcelebrated with great
                        pomp at St. Peter's. January, 1502, Lucrezia arrives in the
                        presence of her new husband who falls seriously in love with her. Her fate
                        is now to settle down, and no further tragedies befall on account of her,
                        except one. A certain Ercole Strozzi, an Italian noble, appears on the scene
                        and falls violently in love with her. She is only twenty-three or four even
                        now. Alphonso d'Este, her new husband, becomes violently jealous
                        and murders Ercole. Result: further peace until her death in 1511 in her
                        thirty-ninth year, during which period she had four children by
                        Alphonsothree boys and one girl.
                    As for brother Csar he was, unfortunately, leading a more checkered career.
                        On December 21, 1502, when he was only twenty-six, as a general fighting the
                        allied minor princes in Romagna, he caused to be strangled in his
                        headquarters at Senigallia, Vitellozzo Viletti and Oliveralto da Fermo, two
                        princelings who with others had conspired against him some time before at
                        Perugia. Awed by his growing power, they had been so foolish as to endeavor
                        to placate him by capturing Senigallia for him from their allies and
                        presenting it to him and allowing themselves to be lured to his house by
                        protestations of friendship. Result: strangulation.
                    August 18, 1503, Father Borgia, Pope Alexander VI, charming society figure,
                        polished gentleman, lover of the chase, patron of the arts, for whom
                        Raphael, Michelangelo and Brabante had worked, breathes his last. He and
                        Csar had fallen desperately  sick at the same
                        time of a fever. When Csar recovers sufficiently to attend to his affairs,
                        things are already in a bad way. The cardinals are plotting to seat a pope
                        unfriendly to the Borgias. The Spanish cardinals on whom he has relied do
                        not prove friendly and he loses his control. The funds which Papa Borgia was
                        wont to supply for his campaigns are no longer forthcoming. Pope Julius II
                        succeeding to the throne, takes away from Csar the territories assigned to
                        him by his father "for the honor of recovering what our
                        predecessors have wrongfully alienated." In May, 1504, having gone
                        to Naples on a safe conduct for the Spanish governor of that city, he is
                        arrested and sent to Spain, where he is thrown into prison. At the end of
                        two years he manages to escape and flees to the court of his brother-in-law,
                        the King of Navarre, who permits him to aid in besieging the castle of a
                        refractory subject. Here, March 12, 1507, while Lucrezia elsewhere is
                        peacefully residing with her spouse, he is killed.
                    I have given but a feeble outline of this charming Renaissance idyl. Mixed in
                        with it are constant murders or poisonings of wealthy cardinals and the
                        confiscation of their estates whenever cash for the prosecution of
                        Csar's wars or the protection of papal properties are needed. The
                        uxorious and child-loving old pope was exceedingly nonchalant about these
                        little matters of human life. When he died there was a fight over his coffin
                        between priests of different factions and mercenaries belonging to Csar
                        Borgia. The coffin being too short, his body was jammed down in it, minus
                        his miter, and finally upset. Think of so much ambition coming to such a
                        shameful end! He achieved his desire, however. He wrote his name large, if
                        not in fame, at least in infamy. He lived in astonishing grandeur and
                        splendor. By his picturesque iniquities he really helped to bring about the
                        Reformation. He had a curious affection for his children and he died
                        immensely richand, pope. The fair Lucrezia stands out as a strange chemical
                        magnet of disaster. To love her was fear, disappointment, or death. And it
                             was she and her brother Csar, who
                        particularly interested Mrs. Q., although the aged Alexander amused her.
                    During her vigorous recital I forgot the corner drug store and modern street
                        cars of Rome, enthralled by the glamour of the ancient city. It was a
                        delight to find that we had an intellectual affinity in the study of the
                        vagaries of this strange phantasmagoria called human life, in which to be
                        dull is to be a bond-slave, and to be wise is to be a mad philosopher,
                        knowing neither right from wrong nor black from white.
                    Together Mrs. Q. and I visited the Borghese and Barberini Palaces, the Villa
                        Doria, the Villa Umberto, the Villa d'Este and the Appian Way. We
                        paid a return visit to the Colosseum and idled together in the gardens of
                        the Pincian, the paths of the Gianicolo, the gardens of the Vatican and
                        along the Tiber. It was a pleasure to step into some old court of a palace
                        where the walls were encrusted with fragments of monuments, inscriptions,
                        portions of sarcophagi and the like, found on the place or in excavating,
                        and set into the walls to preserve themand to listen to this clever,
                        wholesome woman comment on the way the spirit of life builds shells and
                        casts them off. She was not in the least morbid. The horror and cruelties of
                        lust and ambition held no terrors for her. She liked life as a
                    spectacle.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXIII
                    THE ART OF SIGNOR TANNI
                    
                        THE first Sunday I was in Rome I began my local career
                        with a visit to the church of Santa Maria Maggiore, that faces the Via
                        Cavour not far from the Continental Hotel where I was stopping, and
                        afterwards San Prassede close beside it. After Canterbury, Amiens, Pisa and
                        St. Peter's, I confess churches needed to be of great distinction
                        to interest me much; but this church, not so divinely harmonious, exteriorly
                        speaking, left me breathless with its incrustations of marbles, bronzes,
                        carvings, and gold and silver inlay. There is a kind of beauty, or charm, or
                        at least physical excitation, in contemplating sheer gorgeousness which I
                        cannot withstand, even when my sense of proportion and my reason are
                        offended, and this church had that. Many of the churches in Rome have just
                        this and nothing more. At least, what else they may have I am blind to. It
                        did not help me any to learn as I did from Mrs. Barfleur, that it was very
                        old, dating from 352 A. D., and that the blessed Virgin herself had
                        indicated just where this basilica in her honor was to be built by having a
                        small, private fall of snow which covered or outlined the exact dimensions
                        of which the church was to be. I was interested to learn that they had here
                        five boards of the original manger at Bethlehem inclosed in an urn of silver
                        and crystal which is exposed in the sacristy on Christmas Eve and placed
                        over the high altar on Christmas Day, and that here were the tombs and
                        chapels of Sixtus V and Paul V and Clement VIII of the Borghese family and,
                        too, a chapel of the Sforza family. Nevertheless  the hodge-podge of history, wealth, illusion and contention,
                        to say nothing of religious and social discovery, which go to make up a
                        church of this kind, is a little wearisome, not to say brain-achey, when
                        contemplated en masse. These churches! Unless you are especially interested
                        in a pope or a saint or a miracle or a picture or a monument or an
                        artistthey are nothing save intricate jewel-boxes; nothing more.
                    For the first five or six days thereafter I went about with a certain Signer
                        Tanni who was delivering peripatetic lectures at the principal places of
                        interest in Rome. This is a curious development of the modern city, for so
                        numerous are the travelers and so great their interest in the history of
                        Rome that they gladly pay the three to twelve lire each, which is charged by
                        the various lecturers for their discussions and near-by trips. There was a
                        Nashville, Tennessee, chicken-and-egg merchant who, with his wife, was
                        staying at our hotel and who was making the matter of seeing Rome quite as
                        much of a business as that of chickens and eggs in Tennessee. He was a man
                        of medium height, dark, pale, neat, and possessed of that innate courtesy,
                        reserve, large-minded fairness and lively appreciationwithin set
                        convictionswhich is so characteristic of the native, reasonably successful
                        American. We are such innocent, pure-minded Greeksmost of us Americans. In
                        the face of such tawdry vulgarity and vileness as comprises the underworld
                        caf life of Paris, or before such a spectacle of accentuated craft, lust,
                        brutality, and greed as that presented by the Borgias, a man such as my
                        chicken-merchant friend, or any other American of his type, of whom there
                        are millions, would find himself utterly nonplused. It would be so much
                        beyond his ken, or intention, that I question whether he would see or
                        understand  it at all if it were taking place
                        before his very eyes. There is something so childlike and pure about the
                        attitude of many strong, able Americans that I marvel sometimes that they do
                        as well as they do. Perhaps thei very innocence is their salvation. I could
                        not have told this chicken-merchant and his wife, for instance, anything of
                        the subtleties of the underworld of Paris and Monte Carlo as I encountered
                        them; and if I had he would not have believed me, he would have recoiled
                        from it all as a burned child would recoil from fire. He was as simple and
                        interesting and practical as a man could be, and yet so thoroughly efficient
                        that at the age of forty-five he had laid by a competence and was off on a
                        three years' tour of the world.
                    Mrs. Chicken Merchant was a large womanvery stout, very fair, very cautious
                        of her thoughts and her conduct, thoroughly sympathetic and well-meaning.
                        Before leaving her native town, she told me, she had inaugurated a small
                        library, the funds for which she had helped collect. Occasionally she was
                        buying engravings of famous historic buildings, such as the Colosseum and
                        the Temple of Vesta, which would eventually grace the walls of the library.
                        She and her husband felt that they were educating themselves; and that they
                        would return better citizens, more useful to their country, for this
                        exploration of the ancient world. They had been going each day, morning and
                        afternoon, to some lecture or ancient ruin; and after I came they would seek
                        me out of an evening and tell me what they had seen. I took great
                        satisfaction in this, because I really liked them for their nave point of
                        view and their thoroughly kindly and whole-hearted interest in life. It
                        flattered me to think that I was so acceptable to them and that we should
                        get along so well together. Frequently they invited me to  their table to dinner. On these occasions my
                        friend would open a bottle of wine, concerning which he had learned
                        something since he had come abroad.
                    It was Mr. and Mrs. Chicken Merchant who gave me a full description of the
                        different Roman lecturers, their respective merits, their prices, and what
                        they had to show. They had already been to the Forum, the Palatine, the
                        Colosseum and the House of Nero, St. Peter's, the Castle of St.
                        Angelo, the Appian Way, the Catacombs and the Villa Frascati. They were just
                        going to the Villa d'Este and to Ostia, the old seaport at the
                        mouth of the Tiber. They were at great pains to get me to join the companies
                        of Signer Tanni who, they were convinced, was the best of them all.
                        "He tells you something. He makes you see it just as it was. By
                        George! when we were in the Colosseum you could just fairly see the lions
                        marching out of those doors; and that House of Nero, as he tells about it,
                        is one of the most wonderful things in the world."
                    I decided to join Signer Tanni's classes at once, and persuaded Mrs.
                        Barfleur and Mrs. Q. to accompany me at different times. I must say that in
                        spite of the commonplaceness of the idea my mornings and afternoons with
                        Signer Tanni and his company of sightseers proved as delightful as anything
                        else that befell me in Rome. He was a most interesting person, born and
                        brought up, as I learned, at Tivoli near the Villa d'Este, where
                        his father controlled a small inn and livery stable. He was very stocky,
                        very dark, very ruddy, and very active. Whenever we came to the appointed
                        rendezvous where his lecture was to begin, he invariably arrived, swinging
                        his coat-tails, glancing smartly around with his big black eyes, rubbing and
                        striking his hands in a friendly manner, and giving every evidence of taking
                        a keen interest in his work. He was always polite and courteous without  being officious, and never for a moment
                        either dull or ponderous. He knew his subject thoroughly of course; but what
                        was much better, he had an eye for the dramatic and the spectacular. I shall
                        never forget how in the center of the Forum Romanum he lifted the cap from
                        the ancient manhole that opens into the Cloaca Maxima and allowed us to look
                        in upon the walls of that great sewer that remains as it was built before
                        the dawn of Roman history. Then he exclaimed dramatically: "The
                        water that Csar and the emperors took their baths in no doubt flowed through
                        here just as the water of Roman bath-tubs does to-day!"
                    On the Palatine, when we were looking at the site of the Palace of
                        Elagabalus, he told how that weird worthy had a certain well, paved at the
                        bottom with beautiful mosaic, in order that he might leap down upon it and
                        thus commit suicide, but how he afterwards changed his mindwhich won a
                        humorous smile from some of those present and from others a blank look of
                        astonishment. In the House of Nero, in one of those dark underhill chambers,
                        which was once out in the clear sunlight, but now, because of the lapse of
                        time and the crumbling of other structures reared above it, is deep under
                        ground, he told how once, according to an idle legend, Nero had invited some
                        of his friends to dine and when they were well along in their feast, and
                        somewhat intoxicated, no doubt, it began to rain rose leaves from the
                        ceiling. Nothing but delighted cries of approval was heard for this artistic
                        thought until the rose leaves became an inch thick on the floor and then two
                        and three, and four and five inches thick, when the guests tried the doors.
                        They were locked and sealed. Then the shower continued until the rose leaves
                        were a foot deep, two feet deep, three feet deep, and the tables were
                        covered. Later the guests had to climb on tables and  chairs to save themselves from their rosy bath; but when they
                        had climbed this high they could climb no higher, for the walls were smooth
                        and the room was thirty feet deep. By the time the leaves were ten feet deep
                        the guests were completely covered; but the shower continued until the
                        smothering weight of them ended all life.An ingenious but improbable story.
                    No one of Signer Tanni's wide-mouthed company seemed to question
                        whether this was plausible or not; and one American standing next to me
                        exclaimed, "Well, I'll be switched!" My doubting
                        mind set to work to figure out how I could have overcome this difficulty if
                        I had been in the room; and in my mind I had all the associated guests busy
                        tramping down rose leaves in order to make the quantity required as large as
                        possible. My idea was that I could tire Nero out on this rose-leaf
                        proposition. The picture of these noble Romans feverishly trampling down the
                        fall of rose leaves cheered me greatly.
                    After my first excursion with Signer Tanni I decided to take his whole
                        course; and followed dutifully along behind him, listening to his
                        interesting and good-natured disquisitions, during many delightful mornings
                        and afternoons in the Forum, on the Palatine, in the Catacombs, on the
                        Appian Way and in the Villas at Frascati and Tivoli! I shall never forget
                        how clearly and succinctly the crude early beginnings and characteristics of
                        Christianity came home to me as I walked in the Catacombs and saw the
                        wretched little graves hidden away in order that they might not be
                        desecrated, and the underground churches where converts might worship free
                        from molestation and persecution.
                    On the Palatine the fact that almost endless palaces were built one on top of
                        the other, the old palace leveled by means of the sledge and the crowbar and
                        the new one  erected upon the smoothed-over
                        space, is easily demonstrated. They find the remains of different ruins in
                        different layers as they dig down, coming eventually to the early
                        sanctuaries of the kings and the federated tribes. It is far more
                        interesting to walk through these old ruins and underground chambers
                        accompanied by some one who loves them, and who is interested in them, and
                        who by fees to the state servitors has smoothed the way, so that the ancient
                        forgotten chambers are properly lighted for you, than it is to go alone. And
                        to have a friendly human voice expatiating on the probable arrangement of
                        the ancient culinary department and how it was all furnished, is worth
                        while. I know that the wonder and interest of the series of immense, dark
                        rooms which were once the palace of Nero, and formerly were exposed to the
                        light of day, before the dust and incrustation of centuries had been heaped
                        upon them, but which now underlie a hill covered by trees and grass, came
                        upon me with great force because of these human explanations; and the room
                        in which, in loneliness and darkness for centuries stood the magnificent
                        group of Laocoon and the porphyry vase now in the Vatican, until some
                        adventuring students happened to put a foot through a hole, thrilled me as
                        though I had come upon them myself. Until one goes in this way day by day to
                        the site of the Circus Maximus, the Baths of Caracalla, the ruins of
                        Hadrian's Villa, the Castle of St. Angelo, the Forum, the Palatine
                        and the Colosseum, one can have no true conception of that ancient world.
                        When you realize, by standing on the ground and contemplating these ancient
                        ruins and their present fragments, that the rumored immensity of them in
                        their heyday and youth is really true, you undergo an ecstasy of wonder; or
                        if you are of a morbid turn you indulge in sad speculations as to the drift
                        of life. I cannot tell you how the mosaics 
                        from the palace of Germanicus on the Palatine affected me, or how strange I
                        felt when the intricacies of the houses of Caligula and Tiberius were made
                        clear. To walk through the narrow halls which they trod, to know truly that
                        they ruled in terror and with the force of murder, that Caligula waylaid and
                        assaulted and killed, for his personal entertainment, in these narrow alleys
                        which were then the only streets, and where torches borne by hand furnished
                        the only light, is something. A vision of the hugeness and audacity of
                        Hadrian's villa which now stretches apparently, one would say, for
                        miles, the vast majority of its rooms still unexcavated and containing what
                        treasures Heaven only knows, is one of the strangest of human experiences. I
                        marveled at this vast series of rooms, envying the power, the subtlety and
                        the genius which could command it. Truly it is unbelievableone of those
                        things which stagger the imagination. One can hardly conceive how even an
                        emperor of Rome would build so beautifully and so vastly. Rome is so vast in
                        its suggestion that it is really useless to apostrophize. That vast empire
                        that stretched from India to the Arctic was surely fittingly represented
                        here; and while we may rival the force and subtlety and genius and
                        imagination of these men in our day, we will not truly outstrip them. Mind
                        was theirsvast, ardent imagination; and if they achieved crudely it was
                        because the world was still young and the implements and materials of life
                        were less understood. They were the great onesthe Romans. We must still
                        learn from them.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXXIV
                    AN AUDIENCE AT THE VATICAN
                    
                        THE remainder of my days in Rome were only three or four.
                        I had seen much of it that has been in no way indicated here. True to my
                        promise I had looked up at his hotel my traveling acquaintance, the able and
                        distinguished Mr. H., and had walked about some of the older sections of the
                        city hearing him translate Greek and Latin inscriptions of ancient date with
                        the ease with which I put my ordinary thought into English. Together we
                        visited the Farnese Palace, the Mamertine Prison, the Temple of Vesta, Santa
                        Maria in Cosmedin and other churches too numerous and too pointless to
                        mention. It was interesting to me to note the facility of his learning and
                        the depth of his philosophy. In spite of the fact that life, in the light of
                        his truly immense knowledge of history and his examination of human motives,
                        seemed a hodge-podge of contrarieties and of ethical contradictions,
                        nevertheless he believed that through all the false witness and pretense and
                        subtlety of the ages, through the dominating and apparently guiding impulses
                        of lust and appetite and vanity, seemingly untrammeled by mercy, tenderness
                        or any human consideration, there still runs a constructive, amplifying,
                        art-enlarging, life-developing tendency which is comforting, dignifying, and
                        purifying, making for larger and happier days for each and all. It did not
                        matter to him that the spectacle as we read it historically is always one of
                        the strong dominating the weak, of the strong battling with the strong, of
                        greed, hypocrisy and lying. Even so, the world was moving onto what  he could not say,we were coming into an
                        ethical understanding of things. The mass was becoming more intelligent and
                        better treated. Opportunity, of all sorts, was being more widely diffused,
                        even if grudgingly so. We would never again have a Nero or a Caligula he
                        thoughtnot on this planet. He called my attention to that very interesting
                        agreement between leading families of the Achan League in lower Greece in
                        which it was stipulated that the "ruling class should be honored
                        like gods" and that the subject class should be "held in
                        subservience like beasts." He wanted to know if even a suspicion of
                        such an attitude to-day would not cause turmoil. I tried out his philosophy
                        by denying it, but he was firm. Life was better to him, not merely different
                        as some might take it to be.
                    I gave a dinner at my hotel one evening in order to pay my respects to those
                        who had been so courteous to me and put it in charge of Mrs. Barfleur, who
                        was desirous of nothing better. She was fond of managing. Mrs. Q. sat at my
                        left and Mrs. H. at my right and we made a gay hour out of history,
                        philosophy, Rome, current character and travel. The literary executor of
                        Oscar Wilde was present, Mr. Oscar Browning, and my Greek traveler and
                        merchant, Mr. Bouris. An American publisher and his wife, then in Rome, had
                        come, and we were as gay as philosophers and historians and antiquaries can
                        be. Mr. H. drew a laugh by announcing that he never read a book under 1500
                        years of age any more, and the literary executor of Oscar Wilde told a story
                        of the latter to the effect that the more he contemplated his own
                        achievements, the more he came to admire himself, and the less use he had
                        for other people's writings. One of the most delightful stories I
                        have heard in years was told by H. who stated that an Italian thief, being
                        accused of stealing three rings from the hands of a statue of the  Virgin that was constantly working miracles,
                        had declared that, as he was kneeling before her in solemn prayer, the
                        Virgin had suddenly removed the rings from her finger and handed them to
                        him. But the priests who were, accusing him (servitors of the Church) and
                        the judge who was trying him, all firm believers, would not accept this
                        latest development of the miraculous tendencies of the image and he was sent
                        to jail. Alas! that true wit should be so poorly rewarded.
                    One of the last things I did in Rome was to see the Pope. When I came there,
                        Lent was approaching, and I was told that at this time the matter was rather
                        difficult. None of my friends seemed to have the necessary influence, and I
                        had about decided to give it up, when one day I met the English
                        representative of several London dailies who told me that sometimes, under
                        favorable conditions, he introduced his friends, but that recently he had
                        overworked his privilege and could not be sure. On the Friday before
                        leaving, however, I had a telephone message from his wife, saying that she
                        was taking her cousin and would I come. I raced into my evening clothes
                        though it was early morning and was off to her apartment in the Via Angelo
                        Brunetti, from which we were to start.
                    Presentation to the Pope is one of those dull formalities made interesting by
                        the enthusiasm of the faithful and the curiosity of the influential who are
                        frequently non-catholic, but magnetized by the amazing history of the Papacy
                        and the scope and influence of the Church. All the while that I was in Rome
                        I could not help feeling the power and scope of this organizationmuch as I
                        condemn its intellectual stagnation and pharisaism. Personally I was raised
                        in the Catholic Church, but outgrew it at an early age. My father died a
                        rapt believer in it and I often smile when I think how impossible it  would have been to force, upon him the true
                        history of the Papacy and the Catholic hierarchy. His subjugation to
                        priestly influence was truly a case of the blind leading the blind. To him
                        the Pope was truly infallible. There could be no wrong in any Catholic
                        priest, and so on and so forth. The lives of Alexander VI and Boniface VIII
                        would have taught him nothing.
                    In a way, blind adherence to principles is justifiable, for we have not as
                        yet solved the riddle of the universe and one may well agree with St.
                        Augustine that the vileness of the human agent does not invalidate the
                        curative or corrective power of a great principle. An evil doctor cannot
                        destroy the value of medicine; a corrupt lawyer or judge cannot invalidate
                        pure law. Pure religion and undefiled continues, whether there are evil
                        priests or no, and the rise and fall of the Roman Catholic hierarchy has
                        nothing to do with what is true in the teachings of Christ.
                    It was interesting to me as I walked about Rome to see the indications or
                        suggestions of the wide-spread influence of the Catholic Churchpriests from
                        England, Ireland, Spain, Egypt and monks from Palestine, the Philippines,
                        Arabia, and Africa. I was standing in the fair in the Campo dei Fiori, where
                        every morning a vegetable-market is held and every Wednesday a fair where
                        antiquities and curiosities of various lands are for sale, when an English
                        priest, seeing my difficulties in connection with a piece of jewelry,
                        offered to translate for me and a little later a French priest inquired in
                        French whether I spoke his language. In the Colosseum I fell in with a
                        German priest from Baldwinsville, Kentucky, who invited me to come and see a
                        certain group of Catacombs on a morning when he intended to say mass there,
                        which interested me but I was prevented by another engagement; and at the
                        Continental there were  stopping two priests
                        from Buenos Ayres; and so it went. The car lines which led down the Via
                        Nazionale to St. Peter's and the Vatican was always heavily
                        patronized by priests, monks, and nuns; and I never went anywhere that I did
                        not encounter groups of student-priests coming to and from their studies.
                    This morning that we drove to the papal palace at eleven was as usual bright
                        and warm. My English correspondent and his wife, both extremely intelligent,
                        had been telling of the steady changes in Rome, its rapid modernization, the
                        influence of the then Jewish mayor in its civic improvement and the waning
                        influence of the Catholics in the matter of local affairs. "All
                        Rome is probably Catholic," he said, "or nearly so; but it
                        is n't the kind of Catholicism that cares for papal influence in
                        political affairs. Why, here not long ago, in a public speech the mayor
                        charged that the papacy was the cause of Rome's being delayed at
                        least a hundred years in its progress and there was lots of applause. The
                        national parliament which meets here is full of Catholics but it is not
                        interested in papal influence. It's all the other way about. They
                        seem to be willing to let the Pope have his say in spiritual matters but he
                        can't leave the Vatican and priests can't mix in political
                        affairs very much."
                    I thought, what a change from the days of Gregory VII and even the popes of
                        the eighteenth century!
                    The rooms of the Vatican devoted to the Popeat least those to which the
                        public is admitted at times of audience seemed to me merely large and gaudy
                        without being impressive. One of the greatest follies of architecture, it
                        seems to me, is the persistent thought that mere size without great beauty
                        of form has any charm whatever. The Houses of Parliament in England are
                        large but they are also shapely. As much might be said  for the Palais Royal in Paris though not for the Louvre and
                        almost not for Versailles. The Vatican is another great splurge of
                        nothingmere size without a vestige of charm as to detail.
                    All I remember of my visit was that arriving at the palace entrance we were
                        permitted by papal guards to ascend immense flights of steps, that we went
                        through one large red room after another where great chandeliers swung from
                        the center and occasional decorations or over-elaborate objects of art
                        appeared on tables or pedestals. There were crowds of people in each room,
                        all in evening dress, the ladies with black lace shawls over their heads,
                        the men in conventional evening clothes. Over-elaborately uniformed guards
                        stood about, and prelates of various degrees of influence moved to and fro.
                        We took our station in a room adjoining the Pope's private chambers
                        where we waited patiently while various personages of influence and
                        importance were privately presented.
                    It was dreary business wraiting. Loud talking was not to be thought of, and
                        the whispering on all sides as the company increased was oppressive. There
                        was a group of ladies from Venice who were obviously friends of the Holy
                        Father's family. There were two brown monks, barefooted and with
                        long gray beards, patriarchal types, who stationed themselves by one wall
                        near the door. There were three nuns and a mother superior from somewhere
                        who looked as if they were lost in prayer. This was a great occasion to
                        them. Next to me was a very official person in a uniform of some kind who
                        constantly adjusted his neck-band and smoothed his gloved hands. Some
                        American ladies, quite severe and anti-papistical if I am not mistaken,
                        looked as if they were determined not to believe anything they saw, and two
                        Italian women of charming manners had in tow an  obstreperous small boy of say five or six years of age in lovely black
                        velvet, who was determined to be as bad and noisy as he could. He beat his
                        feet and asked questions in a loud whisper and decided that he wished to
                        change his place of abode every three seconds; all of which was accompanied
                        by many "sh-sh-es "from his elders and whisperings in his
                        ear, severe frowns from the American ladies and general indications of
                        disapproval, with here and there a sardonic smile of amusement.
                    Every now and then a thrill of expectation would go over the company. The
                        Pope was coming! Papal guards and prelates would pass through the room with
                        speedy movements and it looked as though we would shortly be in the presence
                        of the vicar of Christ. I was told that it was necessary to rest on one knee
                        at least, which I did, waiting patiently the while I surveyed the curious
                        company. The two brown monks were appropriately solemn, their heads bent.
                        The sisters were praying. The Italian ladies were soothing their restive
                        charge. I told my correspondent-friend of the suicide of a certain
                        journalist, whom he and his wife knew, on the day that I left New Yorka very
                        talented but adventurous man; and he exclaimed: "My God!
                        don't tell that to my wife. She 'll feel it
                        terribly." We waited still longer and finally in sheer weariness
                        began jesting foolishly; I said that it must be that the Pope and Merry del
                        Val, the Pope's secretary, were inside playing jackstones with the
                        papal jewels. This drew a convulsive laugh from my newspaper friendI will
                        call him W.who began to choke behind his handkerchief. Mrs. W. whispered to
                        me that if we did not behave we would be put out and I pictured myself and
                        W. being unceremoniously hustled out by the forceful guards, which produced
                        more laughter. The official beside me, who probably did not speak English,
                             frowned solemnly. This produced a lull,
                        and we waited a little while longer in silence. Finally the sixth or seventh
                        thrill of expectation produced the Holy Father, the guards and several
                        prelates making a sort of aisle of honor before the door. All whispering
                        ceased. There was a rustle of garments as each one settled into a final
                        sanctimonious attitude. He came in, a very tired-looking old man in white
                        wool cassock and white skull cap, a great necklace of white beads about his
                        neck and red shoes on his feet. He was stout, close knit, with small shrewd
                        eyes, a low forehead, a high crown, a small, shapely chin. He had soft,
                        slightly wrinkled hands, the left one graced by the papal ring. As he came
                        in he uttered something in Italian and then starting on the far side
                        opposite the door he had entered came about to each one, proffering the hand
                        which some merely kissed and some seized on and cried over, as if it were
                        the solution of a great woe or the realization of a too great happiness. The
                        mother superior did this and one of the Italian ladies from Venice. The
                        brown monks laid their foreheads on it and the official next to me touched
                        it as though it were an object of great value.
                    I was interested to see how the Supreme Pontiffthe Pontifex Maximus of all
                        the monumentsviewed all this. He looked benignly but rather wearily down on
                        each one, though occasionally he turned his head away, or, slightly
                        interested, said something. To the woman whose tears fell on his hands he
                        said nothing. With one of the women from Venice he exchanged a few words.
                        Now and then he murmured something. I could not tell whether he was
                        interested but very tired, or whether he was slightly bored. Beyond him lay
                        room after room crowded with pilgrims in which this performance had to be
                        repeated. Acquainted with my newspaper correspondent he gave no sign. At me
                        he  scarcely looked at all, realizing no doubt
                        my critical un-worthiness. At the prim, severe American woman he looked
                        quizzically. Then he stood in the center of the room and having uttered a
                        long, soft prayer, which my friend W. informed me was very beautiful,
                        departed. The crowd arose. We had to wait until all the other chambers were
                        visited by him and until he returned guarded on all sides by his soldiers
                        and disappeared. There was much conversation, approval, and smiling
                        satisfaction. I saw him once more, passing quickly between two long lines of
                        inquisitive, reverential people, his head up, his glance straight ahead and
                        then he was gone.
                    We made our way out and somehow I was very glad I had come. I had thought all
                        along that it really did not make any difference whether I saw him or not
                        and that I did not care, but after seeing the attitude of the pilgrims and
                        his own peculiar mood I thought it worth while. Pontifex Maximus! The Vicar
                        of Christ! What a long way from the Catacomb-worshiping Christians who had
                        no Pope at all, who gathered together "to sing responsively a hymn
                        to Christ as to a God" and who bound themselves by a sacramental
                        oath to commit no thefts, nor robberies, nor adulteries, nor break their
                        word, nor deny a deposit when called upon, and who for nearly three hundred
                        years had neither priest nor altar, nor bishop nor Pope, but just the
                        rumored gospels of Christ.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXV
                    THE CITY OF ST. FRANCIS
                    
                        THE Italian hill-cities are such a strange novelty to the
                        American of the Middle Westused only to the flat reaches of the prairie, and
                        the city or town gathered primarily about the railway-station. One sees a
                        whole series of them ranged along the eastern ridge of the Apennines as one
                        travels northward from Rome. All the way up this valley I had been noting
                        examples on either hand but when I got off the train at Assisi I saw what
                        appeared to be a great fortress on a distant hillthe sheer walls of the
                        church and monastery of St. Francis. It all came back to me, the fact that
                        St. Francis had been born here of a well-to-do father, that he had led a gay
                        life in his youth, had had his "vision"his change of
                        heartwhich caused him to embrace poverty, the care of the poor and needy and
                        to follow precisely that idealistic dictum which says: "Lay not up
                        for yourselves treasures upon earth, . . . but lay up for yourselves
                        treasures in heaven, . . . for where your treasure is there will your heart
                        be also." I had found in one of the little books I had with me,
                        "Umbrian Towns," a copy of the prayer that he devised for
                        his Order which reads:
                    Poverty was in the crib and like a faithful squire she kept herself armed in
                        the great combat Thou didst wage for our redemption. During Thy passion she
                        alone did not forsake Thee. Mary, Thy Mother, stopped at the foot of the
                        cross, but poverty mounted it with Thee and clasped Thee in her embrace unto
                        the end; and when Thou wast dying of thirst as a watchful spouse she
                        prepared for Thee the gall. Thou didst expire in the ardor of her embraces,
                        nor did she leave Thee when dead,  O Lord
                        Jesus, for she allowed not Thy body to rest elsewhere than in a borrowed
                        grave. O poorest Jesus, the grace I beg of Thee is to bestow on me the
                        treasure of the highest poverty. Grant that the distinctive mark of our
                        Order may be never to possess anything as its own under the sun for the
                        glory of Thy name and to have no other patrimony than begging.
                    I wonder if there is any one who can read this without a thrill of response.
                        This world sets such store by wealth and comfort. We all batten on luxury so
                        far as our means will permit,many of us wallow in it; and the thought of a
                        man who could write such a prayer as that, and live it, made my hair tingle
                        to the roots. I can understand Pope Innocent III's saying that the
                        rule offered by St. Francis and his disciples to ordinary mortals was too
                        severe, but I can also conceive the poetic enthusiasm of a St. Francis. I
                        found myself on the instant in the deepest accord with him, understanding
                        how it was that he wanted his followers not to wear a habit, and to work in
                        the fields as day-laborers, begging only when they could not earn their way.
                        The fact that he and his disciples had lived in reed huts on the site of
                        Santa Maria degli Angeli, the great church which stands in the valley near
                        the station, far down from the town, and had practised the utmost austerity,
                        came upon me as a bit of imaginative poetry of the highest sort. Before the
                        rumbling bus arrived, which conveyed me and several others to the little
                        hotel, I was thrilling with enthusiasm for this religious fact, and anything
                        that concerned him interested me.
                    In some ways Assisi was a disappointment because I expected something more
                        than bare picturesqueness; it is very old and I fancy, as modern Italy goes,
                        very poor. The walls of the houses are for the most part built of dull gray
                        stone. The streets climbed up hill and down dale, hard, winding, narrow,
                        stony affairs, lined right to the  roadway by
                        these bare, inhospitable-looking houses. No yards, no gardensat least none
                        visible from the streets, but, between walls, and down street stairways, and
                        between odd angles of buildings the loveliest vistas of the valley below,
                        where were spread great orchards of olive trees, occasional small groups of
                        houses, distant churches and the mountains on the other side of the valley.
                        Quite suited to the self-abnegating spirit of St. Francis, I thought,and I
                        wondered if the town had changed greatly since his day1182!
                    As I came up in the bus, looking after my very un-St. Francis-like luggage,
                        and my precious fur overcoat, I encountered a pale, ascetic-looking French
                        priest,"L'Abb Guillmant, Vicar General, Arras
                        (Pas-de-Calais), France;" he wrote out his address for me,who,
                        looking at me over his French Baedeker every now and then, finally asked in
                        his own tongue, "Do you speak French?" I shook my head
                        deprecatingly and smiled regretfully. "Italiano?" Again I
                        had to shake my head. "C'est triste!" he said,
                        and went on reading. He was clad in a black cassock that reached to his
                        feet, the buttons ranging nicely down his chest, and carried only a small
                        portmanteau and an umbrella. We reached the hotel and I found that he was
                        stopping there. Once on the way up he waved his hand out of the window and
                        said something. I think he was indicating that we could see Perugia further
                        up the valley. In the dining-room where I found him after being assigned to
                        my room he offered me his bill-of-fare and indicated that a certain Italian
                        dish was the best.
                    This hotel to which we had come was a bare little affair. It was new
                        enoughone of Cook's offerings,to which all the tourists traveling
                        under the direction of that agency are sent. The walls were quite white and
                        clean. The ceilings of the rooms were high, over high  latticed windows and doors. My room, I found, gave upon a
                        balcony which commanded the wonderful sweep of plain below.
                    The dining-room contained six or seven other travelers bound either southward
                        towards Rome or northward towards Perugia and Florence. It was a rather hazy
                        day, not cold and not warm, but cheerless. I can still hear the clink of the
                        knives and forks as the few guests ate in silence or conversed in low tones.
                        Travelers in this world seem almost innately fearsome of each other,
                        particularly when they are few in number and meet in some such
                        out-of-the-way place as this. My Catholic Abb was longing to be sociable
                        with me, I could feel it; but this lack of a common tongue prevented him, or
                        seemed to. As I was leaving I asked the proprietor to say to him that I was
                        sorry that I did not speak French, that if I did I would be glad to
                        accompany him; and he immediately reported that the Abb said, Would I not
                        come along, anyhow? "He haav ask," said the proprietor, a
                        small, stout, dark man, "weel you not come halong
                        hanyhow?"
                    "Certainly," I replied. And so the Abb Guillmant and I,
                        apparently not understanding a word of each other's language,
                        started out sightseeing togetherI had almost said arm-in-arm.
                    I soon learned that while my French priest did not speak English, he read it
                        after a fashion, and if he took plenty of time he could form an occasional
                        sentence. It took time, however. He began,in no vivid or enthusiastic
                        fashion, to be sure,to indicate what the different things were as we went
                        along.
                    Now the sights of Assisi are not many. If you are in a hurry and do not fall
                        in love with the quaint and picturesque character of it and its wonderful
                        views you can do them all in a day,an afternoon if you skimp. There is the
                        church of St. Francis with its associated monastery  (what an anachronism a monastery seems in connection with St.
                        Francis, who thought only of huts of branches, or holes in the rocks!) with
                        its sepulcher of the saint in the lower church, and the frescoed scenes from
                        St. Francis's life by Giotto in the upper; the church of St. Clare
                        (Santa Chiara) with its tomb and the body of that enthusiastic imitator of
                        St. Francis; the Duomo, or cathedral, begun in 1134a rather poor specimen of
                        a cathedral after some othersand the church of St. Damiano, which was
                        giventhe chapel of itto St. Francis by the Benedictine monks of Monte
                        Subasio soon after he had begun his work of preaching the penitential life.
                        There is also the hermitage of the Carceri, where, in small holes in the
                        rocks the early Franciscans led a self-depriving life, and the new church
                        raised on the site of the house belonging to Pietro Bernardone, the father
                        of St. Francis, who was in the cloth business.
                    I cannot say that I followed with any too much enthusiasm the involved
                        architectural, historical, artistic, and religious details of these churches
                        and chapels. St. Francis, wonderful "jongleur of God" that
                        he was, was not interested in churches and chapels so much as he was in the
                        self-immolating life of Christ. He did not want his followers to have
                        monasteries in the first place. "Carry neither gold nor silver nor
                        money in your girdles, nor bag, nor two coats, nor sandals, nor staff, for
                        the workman is worthy of his hire." I liked the church of St.
                        Francis, however, for in spite of the fact that it is gray and bare as
                        befits a Franciscan edifice, it is a double churchone below the other, and
                        seemingly running at right angles; and they are both large Gothic churches,
                        each complete with sacristy, choir nave, transepts and the like. The
                        cloister is lovely, in the best Italian manner, and through the interstices
                        of the walls wonderful views of the valley below may be secured. The lower
                        church,  gray and varied in its interior, is
                        rich in frescoes by Cimabue and others dealing with the sacred vows of the
                        Franciscans, the upper (the nave) decorated with frescoes by Giotto,
                        illustrating the life of St. Francis. The latter interested me immensely
                        because I knew by now that these were almost the beginning of Italian and
                        Umbrian religious art and because Giotto, from the evidences his work
                        affords, must have been such a naive and pleasant old soul. I fairly laughed
                        aloud as I stalked about this great nave of the upper church the Abb was
                        still belowat some of the good old Italian's attempts at
                        characterization and composition. It is no easy thing, if you are the
                        founder of a whole line of great artists, called upon to teach them
                        something entirely new in the way of life-expression, to get all the
                        wonderful things you see and feel into a certain picture or series of
                        pictures, but Giotto tried it and he succeeded very well, too. The
                        decorations are not great, but they are quaint and lovely, even if you have
                        to admit at times that an apprentice of to-day could draw and compose
                        better. He could n't "intend" better, however,
                        nor convey more human tenderness and feeling in gay, light coloring, and
                        therein lies the whole secret!
                    There are some twenty-eight of these frescoes ranged along the lower walls on
                        either sideSt. Francis stepping on the cloak of the poor man who,
                        recognizing him as a saint, spread it down before him; St. Francis giving
                        his cloak to the poor nobleman; St. Francis seeing the vision of the palace
                        which was to be reared for him and his followers; St. Francis in the car of
                        fire; St. Francis driving the devils away from Arezzo; St. Francis before
                        the Sultan; St. Francis preaching to the birds; and so on. It was very
                        charming. I could not help thinking what a severe blow has been given to
                        religious legend since those days however; nowadays, except in the minds of
                        the ignorant,  saints and devils and angels
                        and stigmata and holy visions have all but disappeared. The grand
                        phantasmagoria of religious notions as they relate to the life of Christ
                        have all but vanished, for the time being anyhow, even in the brains of the
                        masses, and we are having an invasion of rationalism or something
                        approximating it, even at the bottom. The laissez-faire opportunism which
                        has characterized the men at the top in all ages is seeping down to the
                        bottom. Via the newspaper and the magazine, even in Italyin Assisisomething
                        of astronomy, botany, politics and mechanics, scientifically demonstrated,
                        is creeping in. The inflow seems very meager as yet, a mere trickle, but it
                        has begun. Even in Assisi I saw newspapers and a weekly in a local
                        barber-shop. The nativesthe aged onesvery thin, shabby and pale, run into
                        the churches at all hours of the day to prostrate themselves before helpless
                        saints; but nevertheless the newspapers are in the barber-shops. Old Cosimo
                        Medici's truism that governments are not managed by paternosters is
                        slowly seeping down. We have scores of men in the world to-day as able as
                        old Cosimo Medici and as ruthless. We will have hundreds and thousands after
                        a while, only they will be much more circumspect in their ruthlessness and
                        they will work hard for the State. Perhaps there won't be so much
                        useless praying before useless images when that time comes. The thought of
                        divinity in the individual needs to be more fully
                        developed.
                    While I was wandering thus and ruminating I was interested at the same time
                        in the faithful enthusiasm my Abb was manifesting in the details of the art
                        of this great church. He followed me about for a time in my idle wanderings
                        as I studied the architectural details of this one of the earliest of Gothic
                        churches and then he went away by himself, returning every so often to find
                        in my guide-book certain passages which he wanted me to  read, pointing to certain frescoes and exclaiming,
                        "Giotto!" "Cimabue!" "Andrea da
                        Bologna!" Finally he said in plain English, but very slowly:
                        "Didyoueverreadalifeof St. Francis?"
                    I must confess that my knowledge of the intricacies of Italian art, aside
                        from the lines of its general development, is slim. Alas, dabbling in
                        Italian art, and in art in general, is like trifling with some soothing
                        drugthe more you know the more you want to know.
                    We continued our way and finally we found a Franciscan monk who spoke both
                        English and Frencha peculiar-looking man, tall, and athletic, who appeared
                        to be very widely experienced in the world, indeed. He explained more of the
                        frescoes, the history of the church, the present state of the Franciscans
                        here, and so on.
                    The other places Franciscan, as I have said, did not interest me so much,
                        though I accompanied my friend, the Abb, wherever he was impelled to go. He
                        inquired about New York, looking up and waving his hand upward as indicating
                        great height, great buildings, and I knew he was thinking of our
                        skyscrapers. "American bar!" he said, twittering to
                        himself like a bird, "American stimeat [steam heat]; American
                        'otel."
                    I had to smile.
                    Side by side we proceeded through the church of St. Clare, the Duomo, the new
                        church raised on the site of the house that belonged to Pietro Bernardone,
                        the father of the saint; and finally to the Church of San Damiano, where
                        after St. Francis had seen the vision of the new life, he went to pray.
                        After it was given him by the Benedictines he set about the work of
                        repairing it and when once it was in charge of the poor Clares, after
                        resigning the command of his order, he returned thither to rest and compose
                        the "Canticle of the Law." I never knew until I came to
                        Assisi what a business this thing of  religion
                        is in Italyhow valuable the shrines and churches of an earlier day are to
                        its communities. Thousands of travelers must pass this way each year. They
                        support the only good hotels. Travelers from all nations come, English,
                        French, German, American, Russian, and Japanese. The attendants at the
                        shrines reap a small livelihood from the tips of visitors and they are
                        always there, lively and almost obstreperous in their attentions. The oldest
                        and most faded of all the guides and attendants throng about the churches
                        and shrines of Assisi, so old and faded that they seemed almost epics of
                        poverty. My good priest was for praying before every shrine. He would get
                        down on his knees and cross himself, praying four or five minutes while I
                        stood irreligiously in the background, looking at him and wondering how long
                        he would be. He prayed before the tomb of St. Francis in the Franciscan
                        church; before the body of St. Clare (clothed in a black habit and shown
                        behind a glass case), in the church of St. Clare; before the altar in the
                        chapel of Saint Damiano, where St. Francis had first prayed; and so on.
                        Finally when we were all through, and it was getting late evening, he wanted
                        to go down into the valley, near the railroad station, to the church of
                        Santa Maria degli Angeli, where the cell in which St. Francis died, is
                        located. He thought I might want to leave him now, but I refused. We started
                        out, inquiring our way of the monks at Saint Damiano and found that we had
                        to go back through the town. One of the monks, a fat, barefooted man,
                        signaled me to put on my hat, which I was carrying because I wanted to enjoy
                        the freshness of the evening wind. It had cleared off now, the sun had come
                        out and we were enjoying one of those lovely Italian spring evenings which
                        bring a sense of childhood to the heart. The good monk thought I was holding
                        my hat out of reverence to his calling. I put it on.
                    
                    We went back through the town and then I realized how lovely the life of a
                        small Italian town is, in spring. Assisi has about five thousand population.
                        It was cool and pleasant. Many doorways were now open, showing evening fires
                        within the shadows of the rooms. Some children were in the roadways. Carts
                        and wains were already clattering up from the fields below and
                        church-bellsthe sweetest echoes from churches here and there in the valley
                        and from those here in Assisiexchanged melodies. We walked fast because it
                        was late and when we reached the station it was already dusk. The moon had
                        risen, however, and lighted up this great edifice, standing among a ruck of
                        tiny homes. A number of Italian men and women were grouped around a pump
                        outsidethose same dark, ear-ringed Italians with whom we are now so familiar
                        in America. The church was locked, but my Abb went about to the cloister
                        gate which stood at one side of the main entrance, and rang a bell. A
                        brown-cowled monk appeared and they exchanged a few words. Finally with many
                        smiles we were admitted into a moonlit garden, where cypress trees and box
                        and ilex showed their lovely forms, and through a long court that had an
                        odor of malt, as if beer were brewed here, and so finally by a circuitous
                        route into the main body of the church and the chapel containing the cell of
                        St. Francis. It was so dark by now that only the heaviest objects appeared
                        distinctly, the moonlight falling faintly through several of the windows.
                        The voices of the monks sounded strange and sonorous, even though they
                        talked in low tones. We walked about looking at the great altars, the
                        windows, and the high, flat ceiling. We went into the chapel, lined on
                        either side by wooden benches, occupied by kneeling monks, and lighted by
                        one low, swinging lamp which hung before the cell in which St. Francis died.
                        There was much whispering of prayers here  and
                        the good Abb was on his knees in a moment praying solemnly.
                    St. Francis certainly never contemplated that his beggarly cell would ever be
                        surrounded by the rich marbles and bronze work against which his life was a
                        protest. He never imagined, I am sure, that in spite of his prayer for
                        poverty, his Order would become rich and influential and that this, the site
                        of his abstinence, would be occupied by one of the most ornate churches in
                        Italy. It is curious how barnacle-wise the spirit of materiality invariably
                        encrusts the ideal! Christ died on the cross for the privilege of worshiping
                        God "in spirit and in truth" after he had preached the
                        sermon on the mount,and then you have the gold-incrusted, power-seeking,
                        wealth-loving Papacy, with women and villas and wars of aggrandizement and
                        bastardy among the principal concomitants. And following Francis, imitating
                        the self-immolation of the Nazarene, you have another great Order whose
                        churches and convents in Italy are among the richest and most beautiful. And
                        everywhere you find that lust for riches and show and gormandizing and a
                        love of seeming what they are not, so that they may satisfy a faint
                        scratching of the spirit which is so thickly coated over that it is almost
                        extinguished.
                    Or it may be that the ideal is always such an excellent device wherewith to
                        trap the unwary and the unsophisticated. "Feed them with a
                        fine-seeming and then put a tax on their humble credulity" seems to
                        be the logic of materialism in regard to the mass. Anything to obtain power
                        and authority! Anything to rule! And so you have an Alexander VI, Vicar of
                        Christ, poisoning cardinals and seizing on estates that did not belong to
                        him: leading a life of almost insane luxury; and a Medicean pope interested
                        in worldly fine art and the development of a pagan ideal.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXVI
                    PERUGIAFU
                    
                        WE returned at between seven and eight that night. After a
                        bath I sat out on the large balcony, or veranda, commanding the valley, and
                        enjoyed the moonlight. The burnished surface of the olive trees, and brown
                        fields already being plowed with white oxen and wooden shares, gave back a
                        soft glow that was somehow like the patina on bronze. There was a faint odor
                        of flowers in the wind and here and there lights gleaming. From some street
                        in the town I heard singing and the sound of a mandolin. I slept soundly.
                    At breakfast,coffee, honey, rolls and, butter,my Abb gave me his card. He was
                        going to Florence. He asked the hotel man to say to me that he had had a
                        charming time and would I not come to France and visit him? "When I
                        learn to speak French," I replied, smiling at him. He smiled and
                        nodded. We shook hands and parted.
                    After breakfast I called a little open carriage such as they use in Paris and
                        Monte Carlo and was off for Spello; and he took an early omnibus and caught
                        his train.
                    On this trip which Barfleur had recommended as offering a splendid view of
                        cypresses I was not disappointed: about some villa there was an imposing
                        architectural arrangement of them and an old Roman amphitheater nearbythe
                        ruins of itbespoke the prosperous Roman life which had long since
                        disappeared. Spello, like Assisi, and beyond it Perugia, (all these towns in
                        this central valley in fact) was set on top of a high ridge, and on some
                        peak of it at that. As seen from the valley below it was  most impressive. Close at hand, in its narrow
                        winding streets it was simply strange, outre, almost bizarre, and yet a
                        lovely little place after its kind. Like Assisi it was very pooronly more
                        so. A little shrine to some old Greek divinity was preserved here and at the
                        very top of all, on the extreme tipper round of the hill was a Franciscan
                        monastery which I invaded without a by your leave and walked in its idyllic
                        garden. There and then I decided that if ever fortune should permit I would
                        surely return to Spello and write a book, and that this garden and monastery
                        should be my home. It was so eerie hereso sweet. The atmosphere was, so
                        wine-like. I wandered about under green trees and beside well-kept flower
                        beds enjoying the spectacle until suddenly peering over a wall I beheld a
                        small garden on a slightly lower terrace and a brown-cowled monk gathering
                        vegetables. He had a basket on his arm, his hood back over his shouldersa
                        busy and silent anchorite. After a time as I gazed he looked and smiled,
                        apparently not startled by my presence and then went on with his work.
                        "When I come again," I said," I shall surely live
                        here and I'll get him to cook for me." Lovely thought! I
                        leaned over other walls and saw in the narrow, winding streets below natives
                        bringing home bundles of fagots on the backs of long-eared donkeys, and
                        women carrying water. Very soon, I suppose, a car line will be built and the
                        uniformed Italian conductors will call "Assisi!"
                        "Perugia!" and even "The Tomb of St.
                        Francis!"
                    Of all the hill-cities I saw in Italy certainly Perugia was the most
                        remarkable, the most sparkling, the most forward in all things commercial.
                        It stands high, very high, above the plain as you come in at the depot and a
                        wide-windowed trolley-car carries you up to the principal square, the Piazza
                        Vittorio Emanuele, stopping in front  of the
                        modern hotels which command the wide sea-like views which the valley
                        presents below. Never was a city so beautifully located. Wonderful ridges of
                        mountains fade into amazing lavenders, purples, scarlets, and blues, as the
                        evening falls or the dawn brightens. If I were trying to explain where some
                        of the painters of the Umbrian school, particularly Perugino, secured their
                        wonderful sky touches, their dawn and evening effects, I should say that
                        they had once lived at Perugia. Perugino did. It seemed to me as I wandered
                        about it the two days that I was there that it was the most human and
                        industrious little city I had ever walked into. Every living being seemed to
                        have so much to do. You could hear, as you went up and down the
                        streetsstreets that ascend and descend in long, winding stairways, step by
                        step, for blockspianos playing, anvils ringing, machinery humming, saws
                        droning, and, near the great abattoir where cattle were evidently
                        slaughtered all clay long, the piercing squeals of pigs in their death
                        throes. There was a busy market-place crowded from dawn until noon with the
                        good citizens of Perugia buying everything from cabbages and dress-goods to
                        picture post-cards and hardware. Long rows of fat Perugian old ladies,
                        sitting with baskets of wares in front of them, all gossiped genially as
                        they awaited purchasers. In the public square facing the great hotels,
                        nightly between seven and ten, the whole spirited city seemed to be walking,
                        a whole world of gay, enthusiastic life that would remind you of an American
                        manufacturing town on a Saturday nightonly this happens every night in
                        Perugia.
                    When I arrived there I went directly to my hotel, which faces the Piazza
                        Vittorio Ernanuele. It was excellent, charmingly built, beautifully located,
                        with a wide view of the Umbrian plain which is so wonderful in its array of
                        distant mountains and so rich in orchards, monasteries,  convents and churches. I think I never saw a place with so
                        much variety of scenery, such curious twists of streets and lanes, such
                        heights and depths of levels and plat-forms on which houses, the five- and
                        six-story tenement of the older order of life in Italy, are built. The
                        streets are all narrow, in some places not more than ten or fifteen feet
                        wide, arched completely over for considerable distances, and twisting and
                        turning, ascending or descending as they go, but they give into such
                        adorable squares and open places, such magnificent views at every turn!
                    I do not know whether what I am going to say will have the force and
                        significance that I wish to convey, but a city like Perugia, taken as a
                        whole, all its gates, all its towers, all its upward-sweeping details, is
                        like a cathedral in itself, a Gothic cathedral. You would have to think of
                        the ridge on which it stands as providing the nave and the transepts and the
                        apse and then the quaint little winding streets of the town itself with
                        their climbing houses and towers would suggest the pinnacles, spandrels,
                        flying buttresses, airy statues and crosses of a cathedral like Amiens. I
                        know of no other simile that quite suggests Perugia,that is really so true
                        to it.
                    No one save an historical zealot could extract much pleasure from the
                        complicated political and religious history of this city. However once upon
                        a time there was a guild of money-changers and bankers which built a hall,
                        called the Hall of the Cambio, which is very charming; and at another time
                        (or nearly the same time) there was a dominant Guelph party which, in
                        conjunction with some wealthy townsmen known as the
                        "Raspanti," built what is now known as the Palazzo Publico
                        or Palazzo Communale, in what is now known as the Piazza del Municipio,
                        which I think is perfect. It is not a fortress like the Bargello or the
                        Palazzo Vecchio at Florence, but it is  a
                        perfect architectural thing, the charm of which remains with me fresh and
                        keen. It is a beautiful structureone that serves charmingly the uses to
                        which it is putthat of a public center for officials and a picture-gallery.
                        It was in one of these rooms, devoted to a collection of Umbrian art, that I
                        found a pretentious collection of the work of Perugino, the one really
                        important painter who ever lived or worked in Perugiaand the little city now
                        makes much of him.
                    If I felt like ignoring the long-winded art discussions of comparatively
                        trivial things, the charm and variety of the town and its present-day life
                        was in no wise lost upon me.
                    The unheralded things, the things which the guide-books do not talk about,
                        are sometimes so charming. I found it entrancing to descend of a morning by
                        lovely, cool, stone passages from the Piazza of Vittorio Emanuele to the
                        Piazza of the Army, and watch the soldiers, principally cavalry, drill.
                        Their ground was a space about five acres in extent, as flat as a table, set
                        high above the plain, with deep ravines descending on either hand, and the
                        quaint houses and public institutions of Perugia looking down from above. To
                        the left, as you looked out over the plain, across the intervening ravine,
                        was another spur of the town, built also on a flat ridge with the graceful
                        church of St. Peter and its beautiful Italian-Gothic tower, and the whole
                        road that swept along the edge of the cliff, making a delightful way for
                        carriages and automobiles. I took delight in seeing how wonderfully the deep
                        green ravines separate one section of the town from another, and in watching
                        the soldiers, Italy then being at war with Tripoli.
                    You could stand, your arms resting upon some old brownish-green wall, and
                        look out over intervening fields  to distant
                        ranges of mountains, or tower-like Assisi and Spoleto. The variety of the
                        coloring of the plain below was never wearying.
                    This Italian valley was so beautiful that I should like to say one more word
                        about the skies and the wonderful landscape effects. North of here, in
                        Florence, Venice and Milan, they do not occur so persistently and with such
                        glorious warmth at this season of the year. At this height the nights were
                        not cold, but cool, and the mornings burst with such a blaze of color as to
                        defy the art of all save the greatest painters. They were not so much lurid
                        as richly spiritualized, being shot through with a strange electric
                        radiance. This did not mean, as it would so often in America, that a cloudy
                        day was to follow. Rather the radiance slowly gave place to a glittering
                        field of light that brought out every slope and olive orchard and distant
                        cypress and pine with amazing clearness. The bells of the churches in
                        Perugia and in the valley below were like muezzins calling to each other
                        from their praying-towers. As the day closed the features of the landscape
                        seemed to be set in crystal, and the greens and browns and grays to have at
                        times a metallic quality. Outside the walls in the distance were churches,
                        shrines, and monasteries, always with a cypress or two, sometimes with many,
                        which stood out with great distinctness, and from distant hillsides you
                        would hear laborers singing in the bright sun. Well might they sing, for I
                        know of no place where life would present to them a fairer aspect.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXVII
                    THE MAKERS OF FLORENCE
                    
                        WITH all the treasures of my historic reading in mind from
                        the lives of the Medici and Savonarola to that of Michelangelo and the
                        Florentine school of artists, I was keen to see what Florence would be like.
                        Mrs. Q. had described it as the most individual of all the Italian cities
                        that she had seen. She had raved over its narrow, dark, cornice-shaded
                        streets, its fortress-like palaces, its highly individual churches and
                        cloisters, the way the drivers of the little open vehicles plied everyhere
                        cracking their whips, until, she said, it sounded like a Fourth of July in
                        Janesville. I was keen to see how large the dome of the cathedral would look
                        and whether it would really tower conspicuously over the remaining buildings
                        of the city, and whether the Arno would look as picturesque as it did in all
                        the photographs. The air was so soft and the sun so bright, although sinking
                        low in the west, as the train entered the city, that I was pleased to
                        accept, instead of the ancient atmosphere which I had anticipated, the wide
                        streets and rows of four-and six-family apartment houses which characterize
                        all the newer sections. They have the rich browns and creams of the earlier
                        portion of Florence; but they are very different in their suggestion of
                        modernity. The distant hills, as I could see from the car windows, were
                        dotted with houses and villas occupying delightful positions above the town.
                        Suddenly I saw the Duomo; and although I knew it only from photographs I
                        recognized it in an instant. It spoke for itself in a large, dignified way.
                        Over the housetops it soared like a great bubble;  and some pigeons flying in the air gave it the last touch of
                        beauty. We wound around the city in a circleI could tell this by the
                        shifting position of the sunthrough great yards of railway-tracks with
                        scores of engines and lines of small box-cars; and then I saw a small stream
                        and a bridge,nothing like the Arno, of course,a canal; and the next thing we
                        were rolling into a long crowded railway-station, the guards calling
                        Firenze. I got up, gathered my overcoat and bags into my arms, signaled afacino and gave them to him; and then I sought a vehicle
                        that would convey me to the hotel for which I was boundthe Hotel de Ville on
                        the Arno. I sat behind a fat driver while he cracked his whip endlessly
                        above the back of a lazy horse, passing the while the showy faade of Santa
                        Maria Novella, striped with strange bands of white and bluish gray or drab,a
                        pleasing effect for a church. I could see at once that the Florence of the
                        Middle Ages was a much more condensed affair than that which now sprawls out
                        in various directions from the Loggia dei Lanzi and the place of the
                        cathedral.
                    The narrow streets were alive with people; and the drivers of vehicles
                        everywhere seemed to drive as if their lives depended on it. Suddenly we
                        turned into apiazza very modern and very different from
                        that of Santa Maria Novella; and then we were at the hotel door. It was a
                        nice-looking square, as I thought, not very large,clean and gracious. To my
                        delight I found that my room opened directly upon a balcony which overlooked
                        the Arno, and that from it, sitting in a chair, I could command all of that
                        remarkable prospect of high-piled medieval houses hanging over the
                        water's edge. It was beautiful. The angelus bells were ringing;
                        there was a bright glow in the west where the sun was going down; the water
                        of the stream was turquoise blue, and the walls of all the houses seemingly
                        brown. I stood  and gazed, thinking of the
                        peculiarly efficient German manager I had encountered, the German servants
                        who were in charge of this hotel, and the fact that Florence had long since
                        radically changed from what it was. A German porter came and brought my
                        bags; a German maid brought hot water; a German clerk took my full name and
                        address for the register, and possibly for the police; and then I was at
                        liberty to unpack and dress for dinner. Instead I took a stroll out along
                        the stream-banks to study the world of jewelry shops which I saw there, and
                        the stands for flowers, and the idling crowd.
                    I dare not imagine what the interest of Florence would be to any one who did
                        not know her strange and variegated history, but I should think, outside of
                        the surrounding scenic beauty, it would be little or nothing. Unless one had
                        a fondness for mere quaintness and gloom and solidity, it would in a way be
                        repulsive, or at best dreary. But lighted by the romance, the tragedy, the
                        lust, the zealotry, the brutality and the artistic idealism that surrounds
                        such figures as Dante, the Medici, Savonarola, Donatello, Michelangelo,
                        Brunelleschi, and the whole world of art, politics, trade, war, it takes on
                        a strange luster to me, that of midnight waters lighted by the fitful gleams
                        of distant fires. I never think of it without seeing in my mind's
                        eye the Piazza della Signoria as it must have looked on that day in 1494
                        when that famous fiasco, in regard to "the test by fire,"
                        entered into between Savonarola and the Franciscan monks, took place,those
                        long, ridiculous processions of Dominicans and Francis-cans, Savonarola
                        bearing the chalice aloft; or that other clay when Charles VIII of France at
                        the instance of Savonarola paraded the street in black helmet with mantle of
                        gold brocade, his lance leveled before him, his retainers gathered about
                        him, and then disappointed the  people by
                        getting off his horse and showing himself to be the insignificant little man
                        that he was, almost deformed and with an idiotic expression of countenance.
                        Neither can I forget the day that Savonarola was beheaded and burnt for his
                        religious zealotry in this same Piazza della Signoria; nor all the rivals of
                        the Medici hung from the windows of the Palazzo Vecchio or beheaded in the
                        Bargello. Think of the tonsured friars and grave citizens of this medieval
                        city, under Savonarola's fiery incitement, their heads garlanded
                        with flowers, mingling with the overwrought children called to help in
                        purifying the city, dancing like David before the ark and shouting
                        "Long live Christ and the Virgin, our rulers"; of the days
                        when Alessandro Medici and his boon companion and cousin, Lorenzo, rode
                        about the city on a mule together, defiling the virtue of innocent girls,
                        roistering in houses of ill repute, and drinking and stabbing to their
                        hearts' content; of Fra Girolamo preaching to excited crowds in the
                        Duomo and of his vision of a black cross over Rome, a red one over
                        Jerusalem; of Machiavelli writing his brochure "The
                        Prince"; and of Michelangelo defending the city walls as an
                        engineer. Can any other city match this spectacular, artistic, melodramatic
                        progress in so short a space of time, or present the galaxy of artists, the
                        rank company of material masters such as the Medici, the Pazzi, the Strozzi,
                        plotting and counterplotting to the accompaniment of lusts and murders?
                        Other cities have had their amazing hours, all of them, from Rome to London.
                        But Florence! It has always seemed to me that the literary possibilities of
                        Florence, in spite of the vast body of literature concerning it, have
                        scarcely been touched.
                    The art section alone is so vast and so brilliant that one of the art
                        merchants told me while I was there that at least forty thousand of the
                        city's one hundred and seventy 
                        thousand population is foreign (principally English and American), drawn to
                        it by its art merits, and that the tide of travel from April to October is
                        amazing. I can believe it. You will hear German and English freely spoken in
                        all the principal thoroughfares.
                    Because of a gray day and dull, following the warmth and color and light of
                        Perugia and Rome, Florence seemed especially dark and somber to me at first;
                        but I recovered. Its charm and beauty grew on me by degrees so that by the
                        time I had done inspecting Santa Maria Novella, Santa Croce, San Marco, the
                        Cathedral group and the Bargello, I was really desperately in love with the
                        art of it all, and after I had investigated the galleries, the Pitti,
                        Uffizi, Belle Arti, and the cloisters, I was satisfied that I could find it
                        in my heart to live here and work, a feeling I had in many other places in
                        Europe.
                    Truly, however, there is no other city in Europe just like Florence; it has
                        all the distinction of great individuality. My mood changed about, at times,
                        as I thought of the different periods of its history, the splendor of its
                        ambitions or the brutality of its methods; but when I was in the presence of
                        some of its perfect works of art, such as Botticelli's
                        "Spring" in the Belle Arti, or Michelangelo's
                        "Tombs of the Medici"in San Lorenzo, or Titian's
                        "Magdalen," or Raphael's "Leo
                        X" in the Pitti, or Benozzo Gozzoli's fresco (the journey
                        of the three kings to Bethlehem) in the old Medici Palace, then I was ready
                        to believe that nothing could be finer than Florence. I realized now that of
                        all the cities in Europe that I saw Florence was possessed of the most
                        intense art atmosphre,something that creeps over your soul in a grim
                        realistic way and causes you to repeat over and over: "Amazing men
                        worked hereamazing men!"
                    It was so strange to find driven home to me,even more here than in Rome, that
                        illimitable gulf that divides  ideality of
                        thought and illusion from reality. Men painted the illusions of Christianity
                        concerning the saints and the miracles at this time better than ever before
                        or since, and they believed something else. A Cosimo Medici who could
                        patronize the Papacy with one hand and make a cardinal into a pope, could
                        murder a rival with the other; and Andrea del Castagno, who was seeking to
                        shine as a painter of religious artmadonnas, transfigurations, and the
                        likecould murder a Domenico Veneziano in order to have no rival in what he
                        considered to be a permanent secret of how to paint in oils. The same
                        munificence that could commission Michelangelo to design and execute a
                        magnificent faade for San Lorenzo (it was never done, of course) could
                        suborn the elective franchise of the people and organize a school on the
                        lines of Plato's Academy. In other words, in Florence as in the
                        Court of Alexander VI at Rome, we find life stripped of all sham in action,
                        in so far as an individual and his conscience were concerned, and filled
                        with the utmost subtlety in so far as the individual and the public were
                        concerned. Cosimo and Lorenzo de' Medici, Andrea del Castagno,
                        Machiavelli, the Pazzi, the Strozzi,in fact, the whole "kit and
                        kaboodle" of the individuals comprising the illustrious life that
                        foregathered here, were cut from the same piece of cloth. They were, one and
                        all, as we know, outside of a few artistic figures, shrewd, calculating,
                        relentless and ruthless seekers after power and position; lust, murder,
                        gormandizing, panoplizing, were the order of the day. Religion,it was to be
                        laughed at; weakness,it was to be scorned. Poverty was to be misused.
                        Innocence was to be seized upon and converted. Laughing at virtue and
                        satisfying themselves always, they went their way, building their grim,
                        dark, almost windowless palaces; preparing their dungeons and erecting their
                        gibbets for their enemies. No wonder 
                        Savonarola saw "a black cross over Rome." They struck
                        swiftly and surely and smiled blandly and apparently mercifully; they had
                        the Asiatic notion of morality,charity, virtue, and the like, combined with
                        a ruthless indifference to them. Power was the thing they cravedpower and
                        magnificence; and these were the things they had. But, oh, Florence!
                        Florence! how you taught the nothingness of life itself; its shams; its
                        falsehoods; its atrocities; its uselessness. It has never been any wonder to
                        me that the saddest, darkest, most pathetic figure in all art, Michelangelo
                        Buonarroti, should have appeared and loved and dreamed and labored and died
                        at this time. His melancholy was a fit commentary on his age, on life, and
                        on all art. Oh, Buonarroti, loneliest of figures: I think I understand how
                        it was with you.
                    Bear with me while I lay a flower on this great grave. I cannot think of
                        another instance in art in which indomitable will and almost superhuman
                        energy have been at once so frustrated and so successful.
                    I never think of the great tomb for which the Moses in San Pietro in
                        Vincolilarge, grave, thoughtful; the man who could walk with Godand the
                        slaves in the Louvre were intended without being filled with a vast
                        astonishment and grief to think that life should not have permitted this
                        design to come to fulfilment. To think that a pope so powerful as Julius
                        should have planned a tomb so magnificent, with Michelangelo to scheme it
                        out and actually to begin it, and then never permit it to reach completion.
                        All the way northward through Italy this idea of a parallelogram with forty
                        figures on it and covered with reliefs and other ornaments haunted me. At
                        Florence, in the Belle Arti, I saw more of the figures (casts), designed for
                        this tombstrange, unfolding thoughts half-hewn out of the rock, which
                        suggest the source from which Rodin has drawn his inspiration,  and my astonishment grew. Before I was out of
                        Italy, this man and his genius, the mere dreams of the things he hoped to
                        do, enthralled me so that to me he has become the one great art figure of
                        the world. Colossal is the word for Michelangelo,so vast that life was too
                        short for him to suggest even a tithe of what he felt. But even the things
                        that he did, how truly monumental they are.
                    I am sure I am not mistaken when I say that there is a profound sadness, too,
                        running through all that he ever did. His works are large, Gargantuan, and
                        profoundly melancholy; witness the Moses that I have been talking of, to say
                        nothing of the statues on the tombs of the Medici in San Lorenzo at
                        Florence. I saw them in Berlin, reproduced there in plaster in the
                        Kaiser-Friederich-Museum, and once more I was filled with the same sense of
                        profound, meditative melancholy. It is present in its most significant form
                        here in Florence, in San Lorenzo, the faade of which he once prepared to
                        make magnificent, but here he was again frustrated. I saw the originals of
                        these deep, sad figures that impressed me as no other sculptural figures
                        ever have done. "Dawn and Dusk "; "Day and
                        Night." How they dwell with me constantly. I was never able to look
                        at any of his later workthe Sistine Chapel frescoes, the figures of slaves
                        in the Louvre, the Moses in San Pietro in Vincoli, or these figures here in
                        Florence, without thinking how true it was that this great will had rarely
                        had its way and how, throughout all his days, his energy was so
                        unfortunately compelled to war with circumstance. Life plays this trick on
                        the truly great if they are not ruthless and of material and executive
                        leanings. Art is a pale flower that blooms only in sheltered places and to
                        drag it forth and force it to contend with the rough usages of the world is
                        to destroy its perfectness.  It was so in this
                        man's case who at times, because of unlucky conjunctions, was
                        compelled to fly for his life, or to sue for the means which life should
                        have been honored to bestow upon him, or else to abandon great purposes.
                    Out of such a mist of sorrow, and only so, however, have come these figures
                        that now dream here year after year in their gray chapel, while travelers
                        come and go, draining their cup of wonder,rising ever and anon to the level
                        of the beauty they contemplate. I can see Browning speculating upon the
                        spirit of these figures. "Night" with her heavy lids, lost
                        in great weariness; and "Day" with his clear eyes. I can
                        see Rodin gathering substance for his "Thinker," and
                        Shelley marveling at the suggestions which arise from these mighty figures.
                        There is none so great as this man who, in his medieval gloom and mysticism,
                        inherited the art of Greece.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXVIII
                    A NIGHT RAMBLE IN FLORENCE
                    
                        WHATEVER the medieval atmosphere of Florence may have
                        been, and when I was there the exterior appearance of the central heart was
                        obviously somewhat akin to its fourteenth- and fifteenth-century
                        predecessor, to-day its prevailing spirit is thoroughly modern. If you walk
                        in the Piazza della Signoria or the Piazza del Duomo or the Via dei
                        Calzaioli, the principal thoroughfare, you will encounter most of the
                        ancient landmarksa goodly number of them, but they will look out of place,
                        as in the case of the palaces with their windowless ground floors, built so
                        for purposes of defense, their corner lanterns, barricaded windows, and
                        single great entrances easily guarded. To-day these regions have, if not the
                        open spacing of the modern city, at least the commercial sprightliness and
                        matter-of-fact business display and energy which is characteristic of
                        commerce everywhere.
                    I came to the Piazza della Signoria, the most famous square of the city,
                        quite by accident, the first night following a dark, heavily corniced street
                        from my hotel and at once recognized the Palazzo Vecchio, with its thin
                        angular tower; the Loggia dei Lanzi, where in older times public
                        performances were given in the open; and the equestrian statue of Cosimo I.
                        I idled long here, examining the bronze slab which marks the site of the
                        stake at which Savonarola and two other Dominicans were burned in 1498, the
                        fountain designed by Bartolommeo Ammanati; the two lions at the step of the
                        Loggia and Benvenuto Cellini's statue of
                        "Perseus" with the  head of
                        Medusa. A strange genius, that. This figure is as brilliant and thrilling as
                        it is ghastly.
                    It was a lovely night. The moon came up after a time as it had at Perugia and
                        Assisi and I wandered about these old streets, feeling the rough brown
                        walls, looking in at the open shop windows, most of them dark and lighted by
                        street lamps, and studying always the wide, over-hanging cornices. All
                        really interesting cities are so delightfully different. London was so low,
                        gray, foggy, heavy, drab, and commonplace; Paris was so smart, swift,
                        wide-spaced, rococo, ultra-artistic, and fashionable; Monte Carlo was so
                        semi-Parisian and semi-Algerian or Moorish, with sunlight and palms; Rome
                        was so higgledy-piggledy, of various periods, with a strange mingling of
                        modernity and antiquity, and over all blazing sunlight and throughout all
                        cypresses; and now in Florence I found the compact, dark atmosphere,
                        suggestive of what Paris once was, centuries before, with this distinctive
                        feature, that the wide cornice is here an essential characteristic. It is so
                        wide! It protrudes outward from the building line at least three or four
                        feet and it may be much more, six or seven. One thing is certain, as I found
                        to my utter delight on a rainy afternoon, you can take shelter under its
                        wide reach and keep comparatively dry. Great art has been developed in
                        making it truly ornamental and it gives the long narrow streets a most
                        individual and, in my judgment, distinguished appearance.
                    It was quite by accident, also, on this same evening that I came upon the
                        Piazza del Duomo where the street cars are. I did not know where I was going
                        until suddenly turning a corner there I saw itthe Campanile at last and a
                        portion of the Cathedral standing out soft and fair in the moonlight! I
                        shall always be glad that I saw it so, for the strange stripe and arabesque
                        of  its stone work,slabs of white or
                        cream-colored stone interwoven in lovely designs with slabs of slate-colored
                        granite, had an almost eerie effect. It might have been something borrowed
                        from Morocco or Arabia or the Far East. The dome, too, as I drew nearer, and
                        the Baptistery soared upwards in a magnificent way and, although afterwards
                        I was sorry that the municipality has never had sense enough to tear out the
                        ruck of buildings surrounding it and leave these three monumentsthe
                        Cathedral, the Campanile, and the Baptisterystanding free and clear, as at
                        Pisa, on a great stone platform or square,nevertheless, cramped as I think
                        they are, they are surely beautiful.
                    I was not so much impressed by the interior of the cathedral. Its beauty is
                        largely on the outside.
                    I ascended the Campanile still another day and from its height viewed all
                        Florence, the windings of the Arno, San Miniato, Fiesole, but, try as I
                        might, I could not think of it in modern terms. It was too reminiscent of
                        the Italy of the Medici, of the Borgias, Julius II, Michelangelo and all the
                        glittering company who were their contemporaries. One thing that was
                        strongly impressed upon me there was that every city should have a great
                        cathedral. Not so much as a symbol or theory of religion as an object of
                        art, something which would indicate the perfection of the religious ideal
                        taken from an artistic point of view. Here you can stand and admire the
                        exquisite double windows with twisted columns, the infinite variety of the
                        inlaid marble work, and the quaint architecture of the niches supported by
                        columns. It was after midnight and the moon was high in the heavens shining
                        down with a rich springlike effect before I finally returned from the Duomo
                        Square, following the banks of the Arno and admiring the shadows cast by the
                        cornices and so finally reached my hotel and my bed.
                    
                    The Uffizi and Pitti collections of paintings are absolutely the most amazing
                        I saw abroad. There are other wonderful collections, the Louvre being
                        absolutely unbelievable for size; but here the art is so uniformly relative
                        to Italy, so identified with the Renaissance, so suggestive of the influence
                        and the patronage which gave it birth. The influence of religion, the wealth
                        of the Catholic Church, the power of individual families such as the Medici
                        and the Dukes of Venice are all clearly indicated. Botticelli's
                        "Adoration of the Magi" in the Uffizi, showing the proud
                        Medici children, the head of Cosimo Pater Patriae, and the company of men of
                        letters and statesmen of the time, all worked in as figures about the Christ
                        child, tell the whole story. Art was flattering to the nobility of the day.
                        It was dependent for its place and position upon religion, upon the
                        patronage of the Church, and so you have endless
                        "Annunciations," "Adorations,"
                        "Flights into Egypt," "Crucifixions,"
                        "Descents from the Cross,"
                        "Entombments," "Resurrections," and the
                        like. The sensuous "Magdalena," painted for her form and
                        the beauty of suggestion, you will encounter over and over again. All the
                        saints in the calendar, the proud Popes and Cardinals of a dozen families,
                        the several members of the Medici familythey are all there. Now and then you
                        will encounter a Rubens, a Van Dyck, a Rembrandt, or a Frans Hals from the
                        Netherlands, but they are rare. Florence, Rome, Venice, Pisa, and Milan, are
                        best represented by their own sculptors, painters and architects and it is
                        the local men largely in whom you rejoice. The bits from other lands are few
                        and far between.
                    Rome for sculptures, frescoes, jewel-box churches, ancient ruins, but
                        Florence for paintings and the best collections of medieval artistic
                        craftsmanship.
                    In the Uffizi, the Pitti, and the Belle Arti I browsed  among the vast collections of paintings sharpening my
                        understanding of the growth of Italian art. I never knew until I reached
                        Florence how easy it is to trace the rise of Christian art, to see how one
                        painter influenced another, how one school borrowed from another. It is all
                        very plain. If by the least effort you fix the representatives of the
                        different Italian schools in mind, you can judge for yourself.
                    I returned three times to look at Botticelli's
                        "Spring" in the Belle Arti, that marvelous picture which I
                        think in many respects is the loveliest picture in the world, so delicate,
                        so poetically composed, so utterly suggestive of the art and refinement of
                        the painter and of life at its best. The "Three Graces,"
                        so lightly clad in transparent raiment, are so much the soul of joy and
                        freshness, the utter significance of spring. The ruder figures to the left
                        do so portray the cold and blue of March, the warmer April, and the
                        flower-clad May! I could never tire of the artistry which could have March
                        blowing on April's mouth from which flowers fall into the lap of
                        May. Nor could I weary of the spirit that could select green, sprouting
                        things for the hem of April's garment; or above Spring's
                        head place a wingd and blindfolded baby shooting a fiery arrow at the Three
                        Graces. To me Botticelli is the nearest return to the Greek spirit of
                        beauty, grace and lightness of soul, combined with later delicacy and
                        romance that the modern world has known. It is so beautiful that for me it
                        is sadfull of the sadness that only perfect beauty can inspire.
                    I think now, of all the places I saw in Italy, perhaps Florence really
                        preserves in spite of its changes most of the atmosphere of the past, but
                        that is surely not for long, either; for it is growing and the Germans are
                        arriving. They were in complete charge of my hotel here and of other places,
                        as I shortly saw, and I fancy that 
                        
                            I sated myself on the house fronts or backs below the Pont
                            Vecchio
                        
                        
                         the future of northern Italy is to be in the
                        hands of the Germans.
                    As I walked about this city, lingering in its doorways, brooding over its
                        pictures, reconstructing for myself the life of the Middle Ages, I could not
                        help thinking how soon it must all go. No doubt the churches, palaces, and
                        museums will be retained in their present form for hundreds of years, and
                        they should be, but soon will come wider streets and newer houses even in
                        the older section (the heart of the city) and then farewell to the medieval
                        atmosphere. In all likelihood the wide cornices, now such a noticeable
                        feature of the city, will be abandoned and then there will be scarcely
                        anything to indicate the Florence of the past. Already the street cars were
                        clang-clanging their way through certain sections.
                    The Arno here is so different from the Tiber at Rome; and yet so much like
                        it, for it has in the main the same unprepossessing look, running as it does
                        through the city between solid walls of stone but lacking the spectacles of
                        the castle of St. Angelo, Saint Peter's, the hills and the gardens
                        of the Aventine and the Janiculum. There are no ancient ruins on the
                        Arno,only the suggestive architecture of the Middle Ages, the wonderful
                        Ponte Vecchio and the houses adjacent to it.
                    Indeed the river here is nothing more than a dammed streamshallow before it
                        reaches the city, shallow after it leaves it, but held in check here by
                        great stone dams which give it a peculiarly still mass and depth. The spirit
                        of the people was not the same as that of those in Rome or other cities; the
                        spirit of the crowd was different. A darker, richer, more phlegmatic
                        populace, I thought. The people were slow, leisurely, short and comfortable.
                        I sated myself on the house fronts or backs below the Ponte Vecchio and on
                        the little jewelry shops of which there 
                        seemed to be an endless variety; and then feeling that I had had a taste of
                        the city, I returned to larger things. The Duomo, the palaces of the Medici,
                        the Pitti Palace, and that world which concerned the Council of Florence,
                        and the dignified goings to and fro of old Cosimo Pater and his descendants
                        were the things that I wished to see and realize for myself if I could.
                    I think we make a mistake when we assume that the manners, customs, details,
                        conversation, interests and excitements of people anywhere were ever very
                        much different from what they are now. In three or four hundred years from
                        now people in quite similar situations to our own will be wondering how we
                        took our daily lives; quite the same as our ancestors, I should say, and no
                        differently from our descendants. Life works about the same in all times.
                        Only exterior aspects change. In the particular period in which Florence,
                        and all Italy for that matter, was so remarkable, Italy was alive with
                        ambitious menstrong, remarkable, capable characters. They
                        made the wonder of the life, it was not the architecture that did it and not
                        the routine movements of the people. Florence has much the same architecture
                        to-day, better in fact; but not the men. Great men make great timesand only
                        struggling, ambitious, vainglorious men make the existence of the artist
                        possible, however much he may despise them. They are the only ones who in
                        their vainglory and power can readily call upon him to do great things and
                        supply the means. Witness Raphael and Michelangelo in Italy, Rubens in
                        Holland, and Velasquez in Spain.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXIX
                    FLORENCE OF TO-DAY
                    
                        IT was while I was in Florence that a light was thrown on
                        an industry of which I had previously known little and which impressed me
                        much.
                    Brooding over the almost endless treasures of the city, I ambled into the
                        Strozzi Palace one afternoon, that perfect example of Florentine palatial
                        architecture, then occupied by an exposition of objects of art,
                        reproductions and originals purporting to be the work of an association of
                        Italian artists. After I had seen, cursorily, most of the treasures in the
                        Palazzo Strozzi, I encountered a thing which I had long heard of but never
                        seen,an organization for the reproduction, the reduplication, of all the
                        wonders of art, and cheaply, too. The place was full of marbles of the
                        loveliest character, replicas of famous statues in the Vatican, the Louvre,
                        the Uffizi, and elsewhere; and in many instances, also, copies of the great
                        pictures. There was beautiful furniture imitated, even as to age, from many
                        of the Italian palaces, the Riccardi, Albizzi, Pazzi, Pitti, Strozzi, and
                        others; and as for garden-fittingsfountains, fauns, cupids, benches, metal
                        gateways, pergolas, and the like, they were all present. They were marvelous
                        reproductions from some of the villas, with the patina of age upon them, and
                        I thought at first that they were original. I was soon undeceived, for I had
                        not been there long, strolling about, when an attendant brought and
                        introduced to me a certain Prof. Ernesto Jesuram, a small, dark, wiry man
                        with clear, black, crowlike eyes who made clear the whole situation.
                    
                    The markets of the world, according to Mr. Jesuram, a Jew, were being flooded
                        with cheap imitations of every truly worthy object of art, from Italian
                        stone benches to landscapes by Corot or portraits by Frans Halsmasquerading
                        as originals; and it had been resolved by this Association of Italian
                        Artists that this was unfair, not only to the buyer and the art-loving
                        public generally, but also to the honest craftsman who could make an
                        excellent living reproducing, frankly, copies of ancient works of merit at a
                        nominal price, if only they were permitted to copy them. Most, in fact all
                        of them, could make interesting originals but in many cases they would lack
                        that trait of personality which makes all the difference between success and
                        failure; whereas they could perfectly reproduce the masterpieces of others
                        and that, too, for prices with which no foreigner could compete. So they had
                        banded themselves together, determined to do better work, and sell more
                        cheaply than the fly-by-night rascals who were confounding and degrading all
                        good art and to say frankly to each and all: "Here is a perfect
                        reproduction of a very lovely thing. Do you want it at a very low
                        cost?" or, "We will make for you an exact copy of anything
                        that you see and admire and wish to have and we will make it so cheaply that
                        you cannot afford to dicker with doubtful dealers who sell you imitations
                            as originals and charge you outrageous
                        prices."
                    I have knocked about sufficiently in my time in the showy chambers of
                        American dealers and elsewhere to know that there is entirely too much in
                        what was told me.
                    The wonder of Florence grew a little under the Professor's quiet
                        commercial analysis, for after exhausting this matter of reproducing so
                        cheaply, we proceeded to a discussion of the present conditions of the city.
                    
                    "It's very different commercially from anything in America
                        or the north of Europe," he said, "or even the north of
                        Italy, for as yet we have scarcely anything in the way of commerce here. We
                        still build in the fashion they used five hundred years agonarrow streets
                        and big cornices in order to keep up the atmosphere of the city, for we are
                        not strong enough commercially yet to go it alone, and besides I
                        don't think the Italians will ever be different. They are an
                        easy-going race. They don't need the American "two dollars
                        a day" to live on. Fifty centimes will do. For one thousand dollars
                        (five thousand lire) you can rent a palace here for a year and I can show
                        you whole floors overlooking gardens that you can rent for seventeen dollars
                        a month. We have a garden farther out that we use as a workshop here in
                        Florence, in the heart of the city, which we rent for four hundred dollars a
                        year."
                    "What about the Italian's idea of progress? Is n't
                        he naturally constructive?" I asked Mr. Jesuram.
                    "Rarely the Italian. Not at this date. We have many Jews and Germans
                        here who are doing well, and foreign capital is building street-railways. I
                        think the Italians will have to be fused with another nation to experience a
                        new birth. The Germans are mixing with them. If they ever get as far south
                        as Sicily, Italy will be made over; the Germans themselves will be made
                        over. I notice that the Italians and Germans get along well
                        together."
                    I thought of the age-long wars between the Teutons and the Italians from the
                        fifth to the twelfth century, but those days are over. They can apparently
                        mingle in peace now, as I saw here and farther north.
                    It was also while I was in Florence that I first became definitely and in an
                        irritated way conscious of a certain aspect of travel which no doubt
                        thousands of other travelers  have noted for
                        themselves but of which, nevertheless, I feel called upon to speak.
                    I could never come in to the breakfast table either there, or at Rome, or in
                        Venice, or Milan, without encountering a large company of that peculiarly
                        American brand of sightseers, not enormously rich, of no great dignity, but
                        comfortable and above all enormously pleased with themselves. I could never
                        look at any of this tribe, comfortably clothed, very pursy and fussy,
                        without thinking what a far cry it is from the temperament which makes for
                        art or great originality to the temperament which makes for normalitythe
                        great, so-called sane, conservative mass. God spare me! I'll admit
                        that for general purposes, the value of breeding, trading, rearing of
                        children in comfort, producing the living atmosphere of life in which we
                        "find" ourselves and from which art, by the grace of great
                        public occasions may rise, people of this type are essential. But seen
                        individually, dissociated from great background masses, they arebut let me
                        not go wild. Viewed from the artistic angle, the stress of great occasions,
                        great emotion, great necessities, they fall into such pigmy weaknesses,
                        almost ridiculous. Here abroad they come so regularly, Pa and Ma. Pa
                        infrequently, and a little vague-looking from overwork and limited vision of
                        soul; Ma not infrequently, a little superior, vain, stuffy, envious, dull
                        and hard. I never see such a woman as that but my gorge rises a little. The
                        one idea of a pair like this, particularly of the mother, is the getting her
                        children (if there be any) properly married, the girls particularly, and in
                        this phase of family politics Pa has obviously little to say. Their
                        appearance abroad, accompanied by Henry and George, Junior, and Mary and
                        Anabel, is forI scarcely know what. It is so plain on the face of it that no
                        single one of them has  the least inkling of
                        what he is seeing. I sat in a carriage with two of them in Rome, viewing the
                        ruins of the Via Appia, and when we reached the tomb of Ccilia Metella I
                        heard:
                    "Oh, yes. There it is. What was she, anyhow? He
                        was a Roman general, I think, and she was his wife. His
                        house was next door and he built this tomb here so she would be near him. Is
                        n't it wonderful? Such a nice idea!"
                    So far as I could make out from watching this throng the principal idea was
                        to be able to say that they had been abroad. Poor old Florence! Its beauty
                        and its social significance passed unrecognized. Art, so far as I could
                        judge from the really unmoved spectators present, was for crazy people. The
                        artist was some weird, spindling, unfortunate fool, a little daft perhaps,
                        but tolerable for a strange furore he seemed to have created. Great men made
                        and used him. He was, after his fashion, a servant. The objectionable
                        feature of a picture like Botticelli's "Spring"
                        would be the nudity of the figures! From a Rubens or a nude Raphael we lead
                        brash, unctuous, self-conscious Mary away in silence. If we encounter,
                        perchance, quite unexpectedly a "Leda" by Michelangelo or
                        a too nude "Assumption" by Bronzino, we turn away in
                        disgust. Art must be limited to conventional theories and when so limited is
                        not worth much anyhow.
                    It was amazing to see them strutting in and out, their good clothes rustling,
                        an automobile in waiting, noisily puffing the while they gather aimless
                        "impressions" wherewith to browbeat their neighbors.
                        George and Henry and Mary and Anabel, protesting half the time or in open
                        rebellion, are duly led to see the things which have been the most
                        enthusiastically recommended, be they palaces or restaurants.
                    
                    I often wondered what it wasthe bestwhich these people got out of their trip
                        abroad. The heavy Germans I saw I always suspected of having solid Teutonic
                        understanding and appreciation of everything; the English were uniformly
                        polite, reserved, intelligent, apparently discriminating. But these
                        Americans! If you told them the true story of Antinous, whose head I saw
                        them occasionally admiring; or forced upon them the true details of the
                        Borgias, the Sforzas, the Medici, or even the historical development of Art,
                        they would fly in horror. They have no room in their little crania for
                        anything save their own notions,the standards of the Methodist Church at
                        Keokuk. I think, sometimes, perhaps it is because we are all growing to a
                        different standard, trying to make life something different from what it has
                        always been, or appeared to be, that all the trouble comes about. Time will
                        remedy that. Life,its heavy, interminable processes,will break any theory. I
                        conceive of life as a blind goddess, pouring from separate jars, one of
                        which she holds in each hand, simultaneously, the streams of good and evil,
                        which mingling, make this troubled existence, flowing ever onward to the
                        sea.
                    It was also while I was at Florence that I finally decided to change my plan
                        and visit Venice. "It is a city without a disappointment,"
                        a publisher-friend of mine had one time assured me, with the greatest
                        confidence. And so, here at Florence, on this first morning, I altered my
                        plans; I changed my ticket at Thomas Cook's and crowded Venice in
                        between Florence and Milan. I gave myself a stay of four days, deciding to
                        lengthen it if I chose.
                    I really think that every traveler of to-day owes a debt of gratitude to
                        Thomas Cook & Sons. I never knew, until I went abroad what an
                        accommodation the  offices of this concern
                        are. Your mail is always courteously received and cared for; your routes and
                        tickets are changed and altered at your slightest whim; your local bank is
                        their cash-desk and the only advisers you have, if you are alone and without
                        the native tongue at your convenience, are their clerks and agents at the
                        train. It does not make any difference to me that that is their business and
                        that they make a profit. In a foreign city where you are quite alone you
                        would grant them twice the profit for this courtesy. And it was my
                        experience, in the slight use I made of their service, that their orders and
                        letters of advice were carefully respected and that when you came conducted
                        by Thomas Cook, whether you took the best or the worst, you were politely
                        and assiduously looked after.
                    One of the most amusing letters that I received while abroad was from this
                        same publisher-friend who wanted me to go to Venice. Not so long before I
                        left Rome, he had arrived with his wife, daughter, and a young girl friend
                        of his daughter whose first trip abroad they were sponsoring. At a luncheon
                        they had given me, the matter of seeing the Pope had come up and I mentioned
                        that I had been so fortunate as to find some one who could introduce me, and
                        that it was just possible, if they wished it, that my friend would extend
                        his courtesy to them. The young girls in particular were eager, but I was
                        not sure. I left Rome immediately afterward, writing to my British
                        correspondent, bespeaking his interest in their behalf, and at the same time
                        to my publisher-friend that I was doing so. As an analysis of girlhood
                        vagaries, keen and clever, read his letter: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        My Dear Dreiser:
                                    
                                    The young woman who thinks she wants to see the Pope goes
                                        under the name of Margaret,but I would n't try very
                                        hard to bring it about, because if Margaret went, my
                                        daughter  would want to go,
                                        and if Margaret and my daughter went, my wife would feel out
                                        in the cold. (The old man can stand it.)
                                    Margaret's motives are simply childish curiosity,
                                        possibly combined with a slight desire to give pleasure to
                                        the Holy Father.
                                    But don't try to get that Papal interview for
                                        Margaret unless you can get it for all the ladies. You will
                                        introduce a serpent into my paradise.
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    No serpent was introduced because I could n't get the interview.
                    And the cells and cloister of San Marco,shall I ever forget them? I went
                        there on a spring morning (spring in Italy) when the gleaming light outside
                        filled the cloister with a cool brightness, and studied the frescoes of Fra
                        Angelico and loitered between the columns of the arches in the cloister
                        proper, meditating upon the beauty of the things here gathered. Really,
                        Italy is too beautiful. One should be a poet in soul, insatiable as to art,
                        and he should linger here forever. Each poorest cell here has a small fresco
                        by Fra Angelico, and the refectory, the chapter house, and the foresteria
                        are filled with large compositions, all rich in that symbolism which is only
                        wonderful because of the art-feeling of the master. I lingered in the cells,
                        the small chambers once occupied by Savonarola, and meditated on the great
                        zealot's imaginings. In a way his dream of the destruction of the
                        Papacy came true. Even as he preached, the Reformation was at hand, only he
                        did not know it. Martin Luther was coming. The black cross was over Rome!
                        And also true was his thought that the end of the old order in Italy had
                        come. It surely had. Never afterwards was it quite the same and never would
                        it be so again. And equally true was his vision of the red cross over
                        Jerusalem, for never was the simple humanism of Jesus so firmly based in the
                        minds of men as it is to-day, though all creeds and religions theories
                        totter wearily  to their ruin. Savonarola was
                        destroyed, but not his visions or his pleas. They are as fresh and powerful
                        to-day, as magnetic and gripping, as are any that have been made in history.
                    It was the same with the Bargello, the tombs of the Medici, San Miniato and
                        the basilica and monastery at Fiesole. That last, with the wind singing in
                        the cypresses, a faint mist blowing down the valley of the Arno, all
                        Florence lying below and the lights of evening beginning to appear, stands
                        fixed and clear in my mind. I saw it for the last time the evening before I
                        left. I sat on a stone bench overlooking a wonderful prospect, rejoicing in
                        the artistic spirit of Italy which has kept fresh and clean these wonders of
                        art, when I was approached by a brown Dominican, his feet and head bare, his
                        body stout and comfortable. He asked for alms! I gave him a lira for the
                        sake of Savonarola who belonged to his order andbecause of the spirit of
                        Italy, that in the midst of a changing, commercializing world still
                        ministers to these shrines of beauty and keeps them intact and altogether
                        lovely.
                    One last word and I am done. I strolled out from Santa Croce one evening a
                        little confused by the charm of all I had seen and wondering how I could
                        best bestow my time for the remaining hours of light. I tried first to find
                        the house of Michelangelo which I fancied was somewhere in the vicinity, but
                        not finding it, came finally to the Arno which I followed upstream. The
                        evening was very pleasant, quite a sense of spring in the air and of
                        new-made gardens, and I overcame my disappointment at having failed to
                        accomplish my original plan. I passed new streets, wider than the old ones
                        in the heart of the city, with street lamps, arc-lights, modern awnings and
                        a trolley-car running in the distance. Presently I came to a portion of the
                        Arno lovelier than  any I had yet seen. Of
                        course the walls through which it flows in the city had disappeared and in
                        their place came grass-covered banks with those tall thin poplars I had so
                        much admired in France. The waters were a "Nile green" at
                        this hour and the houses, collected in small groups, were brown, yellow, or
                        white, with red or brown roofs and brown or green shutters. The old idea of
                        arches with columns and large projecting roofs still persisted in these
                        newer, outlying houses and made me wonder whether Florence might not, after
                        all, always keep this characteristic.
                    As I went farther out the houses grew less frequent and lovely bluish-black
                        hills appeared. There was a smoke-stack in the distance, just to show that
                        Florence was not dead to the idea of manufacturing, and beyond in a somewhat
                        different direction the dome of the cathedral,that really impressive dome.
                    Some men were fishing in the stream from the bank, apparently catching
                        nothing. I noticed the lovely cypresses of the South in the distance, the
                        large villas on the hills, and here and there clumps of those tall, slender
                        trees of France, not conspicuous elsewhere on my journey.
                    In one place I noticed the largest display of washing I have ever seen, quite
                        the largest,a whole field of linen, no less, hung out to dry; and in another
                        place some slow-moving men cutting wood.
                    It was very warm, very pleasant, slightly suggestive of rain, with the smoke
                        going up straight, and after a while when the evening church-bells were
                        beginning to ring, calling to each other from vale and hill, my sense of
                        springtime and pleasant rural and suburban sweetness was complete.
                    Laughter carried I noticed, in some peculiar, echoing way. The music of the
                        bells was essentially quieting.
                    
                    I had no sense of Florence, old or new, but just spring, hope, new birth. And
                        as I turned back after a time I knew I had acquired a different and very
                        precious memory of Florencesomething that would last me years and years. I
                        should always think of the Arno as it looked this eveninghow safe and
                        gracious and still. I should always hear the voices in laughter, and the
                        bells; I should always see the children playing on the green banks, quite as
                        I used to play on the Wabash and the Tippecanoe; and their voices in Italian
                        were no less sweet than our childish voices. I had a feeling that somehow
                        the spirit of Italy was like that of America, and that somehow there is
                        close kinship between us and Italy, and that it was not for nothing that an
                        Italian discovered America or that Americans, of all people, have apparently
                        loved Italy most and rivaled it most closely in their periods of greatest
                        achievement.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XL
                    MARIA BASTIDA
                    
                        IN studying out my itinerary at Florence I came upon the
                        homely advice in Baedeker that in Venice "care should be taken in
                        embarking and disembarking, especially when the tide is low, exposing the
                        slimy lower steps." That, as much as anything I had ever read,
                        visualized this wonder city to me. These Italian cities, not being large,
                        end so quickly that before you can say Jack Robinson you are out of them and
                        away, far into the country. It was early evening as we pulled out of
                        Florence; and for a while the country was much the same as it had been in
                        the southhill-towns, medieval bridges and strongholds, the prevailing solid
                        browns, pinks, grays and blues of the architecture, the white oxen, pigs and
                        shabby carts, but gradually, as we neared Bologna, things seemed to take on
                        a very modern air of factories, wide streets, thoroughly modern suburbs and
                        the like. It grew dark shortly after that and the country was only favored
                        by the rich radiance of the moon which made it more picturesque and
                        romantic, but less definite and distinguishable.
                    In the compartment with me were two women, one a comfortable-looking matron
                        traveling from Florence to Bologna, the other a young girl of twenty or
                        twenty-one, of the large languorous type, and decidedly good looking. She
                        was very plainly dressed and evidently belonged to the middle class.
                    The married Italian lady was small and good-looking and bourgeoise. Considerably before dinner-time, and as we were
                        nearing Bologna, she opened a small basket 
                        which she carried and took from it a sandwich, an apple, and a bit of
                        cheese, which she ate placidly. For some reason she occasionally smiled at
                        me good-naturedly, but not speaking Italian, I was without the means of
                        making a single observation. At Bologna I assisted her with her parcels and
                        received a smiling backward glance and then I settled myself in my seat
                        wondering what the remainder of the evening would bring forth. I was not so
                        very long in discovering.
                    Once the married lady of Bologna had disappeared, my young companion took on
                        new life. She rose, smoothed down her dress and reclined comfortably in her
                        seat, her cheek laid close against the velvet-covered arm, and looked at me
                        occasionally out of half-closed eyes. She finally tried to make herself more
                        comfortable by lying down and I offered her my fur overcoat as a pillow. She
                        accepted it with a half-smile.
                    About this time the dining-car steward came through to take a memorandum of
                        those who wished to reserve places for dinner. He looked at the young lady
                        but she shook her head negatively. I made a sudden decision.
                        "Reserve two places," I said. The servitor bowed politely
                        and went away. I scarcely knew why I had said this, for I was under the
                        impression my young lady companion spoke only Italian, but I was trusting
                        much to my intuition at the moment.
                    A little later, when it was drawing near the meal time, I said, "Do
                        you speak English?"
                    
                        "Non," she replied, shaking her head.
                    "Sprechen Sie Deutsch?"
                    
                    "Ein weniy," she replied, with an easy,
                        babyish, half-German, half-Italian smile.
                    
                        "Sie sind doch Italianisch," I
                        suggested.
                    
                        "Oh, oui!" she replied, and put her head
                        down comfortably on my coat.
                    
                    
                        "Reisen Sie nach Venedig?" I inquired.
                    
                        "Oui," she nodded. She half smiled
                        again.
                    I had a real thrill of satisfaction out of all this, for although I speak
                        abominable German, just sufficient to make myself understood by a really
                        clever person, yet I knew, by the exercise of a little tact I should have a
                        companion to dinner.
                    "You will take dinner with me, won't you?" I
                        stammered in my best German. "I do not understand German very well,
                        but perhaps we can make ourselves understood. I have two places."
                    She hesitated, and said"Ich bin nicht
                            hungerich."
                    
                    "But for company's sake," I replied.
                    
                        "Mais, oui," she replied indifferently.
                    I then asked her whether she was going to any particular hotel in VeniceI was
                        bound for the Royal Danieliand she replied that her home was in Venice.
                    Maria Bastida was a most interesting type. She was a Diana for size, pallid,
                        with a full rounded body. Her hair was almost flaxen and her hands large but
                        not unshapely. She seemed to be strangely world-weary and yet strangely
                        passionatethe kind of mind and body that does and does not, care; a kind of
                        dull, smoldering fire burning within her and yet she seemed indifferent into
                        the bargain. She asked me an occasional question about New York as we dined,
                        and though wine was proffered she drank little and, true to her statement
                        that she was not hungry, ate little. She confided to me in soft, difficult
                        German that she was trying not to get too stout, that her mother was German
                        and her father Italian and that she had been visiting an uncle in Florence
                        who was in the grocery business. I wondered how she came to be traveling
                        first class.
                    The time passed. Dinner was over and in several hours more we would be in
                        Venice. We returned to  our compartment and
                        because the moon was shining magnificently we stood in the corridor and
                        watched its radiance on clustered cypresses, villa-crowned hills, great
                        stretches of flat prairie or marsh land, all barren of trees, and
                        occasionally on little towns all white and brown, glistening in the clear
                        light.
                    "It will be a fine night to see Venice for the first time,"
                        I suggested.
                    
                        "Oh, oui! Herrlich! Prachtvoll!" she
                        replied in her queer mixture of French and German.
                    I liked her command of sounding German words.
                    She told me the names of stations at which we stopped, and finally she
                        exclaimed quite gaily, "Now we are here! The Lagoon!"
                    I looked out and we were speeding over a wide body of water. It was
                        beautifully silvery and in the distance I could see the faint outlines of a
                        city. Very shortly we were in a car yard, as at Rome and Florence, and then
                        under a large train shed, and then, conveyed by, an enthusiastic Italian
                        porter, we came out on the wide stone platform that faces the Grand Canal.
                        Before me were the white walls of marble buildings and intervening in long,
                        waving lines a great street of water; the gondolas, black, shapely, a great
                        company of them, nudging each other on its rippling bosom, green-stained
                        stone steps, sharply illuminated by electric lights leading down to them, a
                        great crowd of gesticulating porters and passengers. I startled Maria by
                        grabbing her by the arm, exclaiming in German, "Wonderful!
                        Wonderful!"
                    
                        "Est ist herrlich" (It is splendid), she
                        replied.
                    We stepped into a gondola, our bags being loaded in afterwards. It was a
                        singularly romantic situation, when you come to think of it: entering Venice
                        by moonlight and gliding off in a gondola in company with an unknown and
                        charming Italian girl who smiled and  sighed
                        by turns and fairly glowed with delight and pride at my evident enslavement
                        to the beauty of it all.
                    She was directing the gondolier where to leave her when I exclaimed,
                        "Don't leave meplease! Let's do Venice
                        together!"
                    She was not offended. She shook her head, a bit regretfully I like to think,
                        and smiled most charmingly. "Venice has gone to your head.
                        To-morrow you'll forget me!"
                    And there my adventure ended!
                    It is a year, as I write, since I last saw the flaxen-haired Maria, and I
                        find she remains quite as firmly fixed in my memory as Venice itself, which
                        is perhaps as it should be.
                    But the five or six days I spent in Venicehow they linger. How shall one ever
                        paint water and light and air in words. I had wild thoughts as I went about
                        of a splendid panegyric on Venicea poem, no lessbut finally gave it up,
                        contenting myself with humble notes made on the spot which at some time I
                        hoped to weave into something better. Here they area portion of themthe task
                        unfinished.
                    What a city! To think that man driven by the hand of circumstancethe dread of
                        destructionshould have sought out these mucky sea islands and eventually
                        reared as splendid a thing as this. "The Veneti driven by the
                        Lombards," reads my Baedeker, "sought the marshy islands
                        of the sea." Even so. Then came hard toil, fishing, trading, the
                        wonders of the wealth of the East. Then came the Doges, the cathedral, these
                        splendid semi-Byzantine palaces. Then came the painters, religion, romance,
                        history. To-day here it stands, a splendid shell, reminiscent of its former
                        glory. Oh, Venice! Venice!
                    The Grand Canal under a glittering moon. The clocks striking  twelve. A horde of black gondolas. Lovely
                        cries. The rest is silence. Moon picking out the ripples in silver and
                        black. Think of these old stone steps, white marble stained green, laved by
                        the waters of the sea these hundreds of years. A long, narrow street of
                        water. A silent boat passing. And this is a city of a hundred and sixty
                        thousand!
                    Wonderful painted arch doorways and windows. Trefoil and quadrifoil
                        decorations. An old iron gate with some statues behind it. A balcony with
                        flowers. The Bridge of Sighs! Nothing could be so perfect as a city of
                        water.
                    The Lagoon at midnight under a full moon. Now I think I know what Venice is
                        at its best. Distant lights, distant voices. Some one singing. There are
                        pianos in this sea-isle city, playing at midnight. Just now a man
                        silhouetted blackly, under a dark arch. Our gondola takes us into the very
                        hallway of the Royal-Danieli.
                    Water! Water! The music of all earthly elements. The lap of water! The sigh
                        of water! The flow of water! In Venice you have it everywhere. It sings at
                        the base of your doorstep; it purrs softly under your window; it suggests
                        the eternal rhythm and the eternal flow at every angle. Time is running
                        away; life is running away, and here in Venice, at every angle (under your
                        window) is its symbol. I know of no city which at once suggests the lapse of
                        time hourly, momentarily, and yet soothes the heart because of it. For all
                        its movement or because of it, it is gay, light-hearted, without being
                        enthusiastic. The peace that passes all understanding is here, soft,
                        rhythmic, artistic. Venice is as gay as a song, as lovely as a jewel (an
                        opal or an emerald), as rich as marble and as great as verse. There can only
                        be one Venice in all the world!
                    No horses, no wagons, no clanging of cars. Just the patter of human feet. You
                        listen here and the very language is musical. The voices are soft. Why
                        should they be loud? They have nothing to contend with. I am wild about this
                        place. There is a sweetness in the hush of things which woos, and yet it is
                        not the hush of silence. All is life here, all movementa sweet, musical
                        gaiety. I wonder if murder and robbery can 
                        flourish in any of these sweet streets. The life here is like that of
                        children playing. I swear in all my life I have never had such ravishing
                        sensations of exquisite art-joy, of pure, delicious enthusiasm for the
                        physical, exterior aspect of a city. It is as mild and sweet as moonlight
                        itself.
                    This hotel, Royal Danieli, is a delicious old palace, laved on one side by a
                        canal. My room commands the whole of the Lagoon. George Sand and Alfred de
                        Musset occupied a room here somewhere. Perhaps I have it.
                    Venice is so markedly different from Florence. There all is heavy, somber,
                        defensive, serious. Here all is light, airy, graceful, delicate. There could
                        be no greater variation. Italy is such a wonderful country. It has Florence,
                        Venice, Rome and Naples, to say nothing of Milan and the Riviera, which
                        should really belong to it. No cornices here in Venice. They are all left
                        behind in Florence.
                    What shall I say of St. Mark's and the Ducal Palace mosaics of
                        history, utterly exquisite. The least fragment of St. Mark's I
                        consider of the utmost value. The Ducal Palace should be guarded as one of
                        the great treasures of the world. It is perfect.
                    Fortunately I saw St. Mark's in the morning, in clear, refreshing,
                        springlike sunlight. Neither Venice nor Florence have the hard glitter of
                        the Southonly a rich brightness. The domes are almost gold in effect. The
                        nine frescoes of the faade, gold, red and blue. The walls, cream and gray.
                        Before it is the oblique quadrangle which necessitates your getting far to
                        one side to see the church squarelya perfect and magnificently individual.
                        jewel. All the great churches are that, I notice. Overhead a sky of blue.
                        Before you a great, smooth pavement, crowded with people, the Campanile
                        (just recompleted) soaring heavenward in perfect lines. What a square! What
                        a treasure for a city to have! Momentarily this space is swept over by great
                        clouds of pigeons. The new reproduction of the old Campanile glows with a
                        radiance all its own. Above all, the gilded crosses of the church. To the
                        right the lovely arcaded faade of the library. To the right of the church,
                        facing the 
                        
                            There can only be one Venice
                        
                        
                         square, the fretted beauty of the
                        Doge's Palacea portion of it. As I was admiring it a warship in the
                        harbor fired a great guntwelve o'clock. Up went all my pigeons,
                        thousands it seemed, sweeping in great restless circles while church bells
                        began to chime and whistles to blow. Where are the manufactories of Venice?
                    At first you do not realize it, but suddenly it occurs to youa city of one
                        hundred and sixty thousand without a wagon, or horse, without a long, wide
                        street, anywhere, without trucks, funeral processions, street cars. All the
                        shops doing a brisk business, citizens at work everywhere, material pouring
                        in and out, but no wagon'sonly small barges and gondolas. No noise
                        save the welcome clatter of human feet; no sights save those which have a
                        strange, artistic pleasantness. You can hear people talking sociably, their
                        voices echoed by the strange cool walls. You can hear birds singing high up
                        in pretty windows where flowers trail downward; you can hear the soft lap of
                        waters on old steps at times, the softest, sweetest music of all.
                    I find boxes, papers, straw, vegetable waste, all cast indifferently into the
                        water and all borne swiftly out to sea. People open windows and cast out
                        packages as if this were the only way. I walked into the Banca di Napoli
                        this afternoon, facing the Grand Canal. It was only a few moments after the
                        regular closing hour. I came upon it from some narrow lanesome "dry
                        street." It was quite open, the ground floor. There was a fine,
                        dark-columned hall opening out upon the water. Where were the clerks, I
                        wondered? There were none. Where that ultimate hurry and sense of life that
                        characterizes the average bank at this hour? Nowhere. It was lovely, open,
                        dark,as silent as a ruin. When did the bank do business, I asked myself. No
                        answer. I watched the waters from its steps and then went away.
                    One of the little tricks of the architects here is to place a dainty little
                        Gothic balcony above a door, perhaps the only one on the faade, and that
                        hung with vines.
                    
                    Venice is mad about campaniles. It has a dozen, I think, some of them
                        leaning, like the tower at Pisa.
                    I must not forget the old rose of the clouds in the west.
                    A gondolier selling vegetables and crying his wares is pure music. At my feet
                        white steps laved by whitish-blue water. Tall, cool, damp walls, ten feet
                        apart. Cool, wet, red brick pavements. The sun shining above makes one
                        realize how lovely and cool it is here; and birds singing everywhere.
                    Gondolas doing everything, carrying casks, coal, lumber, lime, stone, flour,
                        bricks, and boxed supplies generally, and others carrying vegetables, fruit,
                        kindling and flowers. Only now I saw a boat slipping by crowded with red
                        geraniums.
                    Lovely pointed windows and doors; houses, with colonnades, trefoils,
                        quadrifoils, and exquisite fluted cornices to match, making every house that
                        strictly adheres to them a jewel. It is Gothic, crossed with Moorish and
                        Byzantine fancy. Some of them take on the black and white of London smoke,
                        though why I have no idea. Others being colored richly at first are
                        weathered by time into lovely half-colors or tones.
                    These little canals are heavenly! They wind like scattered ribbons, flung
                        broadcast, and the wind touches them only in spots, making the faintest
                        ripples. Mostly they are as still as death. They have exquisite bridges
                        crossing in delightful arches and wonderful doors and steps open into them,
                        steps gray or yellow or black with age, steps that have green and brown moss
                        on them and that are alternately revealed or hidden by a high or low tide.
                        Here comes a gondolier now, peddling oranges. The music of his voice!
                    Latticework is everywhere, and it so obviously belongs
                        here. Latticework in the churches, the houses, the public buildings, Venice
                        loves it. It is oriental and truly beautiful.
                    I find myself at a branch station of the water street-car service. There are
                        gondolas here, too,a score for hire. This man hails me genially, his brown
                        hands and face, and small, old,  soft roll hat
                        a picture in the sun. I feel as if I were dreaming or as if this were some
                        exquisite holiday of my childhood. One could talk for years of these
                        passages in which, amidst the shadow and sunlight of cool, gray walls a
                        gleam of color has shown itself. You look clown narrow courts to lovely
                        windows or doors or bridges or niches with a virgin or a saint in them. Now
                        it is a black-shawled housewife or a fat, phlegmatic man that turns a
                        corner; now a girl in a white skirt and pale green shawl, or a red skirt and
                        a black shawl. Unexpected doorways, (lark and deep with pleasant industries
                        going on inside, bakeries with a wealth of new, warm bread; butcheries with
                        red meat and brass scales; small restaurants, where appetizing roasts and
                        meat-pies are displayed. Unexpected bridges, unexpected squares, unexpected
                        streams of people moving in the sun, unexpected terraces, unexpected boats,
                        unexpected voices, unexpected songs. That is Venice.
                    To-day I took a boat on the Grand Canal to the Giardino which is at the
                        eastern extreme of the city. It was evening. I found a lovely island just
                        adjoining the gardensa Piazza d'Arena. Rich green grass and a line
                        of small trees along three sides. Silvery water. A second leaning tower and
                        more islands in the distance. Cool and pleasant, with that lovely sense of
                        evening in the air which comes only in spring. They said it would be cold in
                        Venice, but it is n't. Birds twittering, the waters of the bay
                        waveless, the red, white and brown colors of the city showing in rich
                        patches. I think if there is a heaven on earth, it is Venice in spring.
                    Just now the sun came out and I witnessed a Turner effect. First this lovely
                        bay was suffused with a silvery-gold lightits very surface. Then the clouds
                        in the west broke into ragged masses. The sails, the islands, the low
                        buildings in the distance began to stand out brilliantly. Even the
                        Campanile, San Giorgio Maggiore and the Salute took on an added glory. I was
                        witnessing a great sky-and-water song, a poem, a picturesomething to
                        identify Venice with my life. Three ducks went by, high in the air, honking
                        as they went. A long black flotilla of thin-prowed coal barges passed in the
                        foreground. The engines of a passing steamer heat rhythmically and I
                        breathed deep and joyously to think I had witnessed all.
                    
                    Bells over the water, the lap of waves, the smell of seaweed. How soft and
                        elevated and ethereal voices sound at this time. An Italian sailor, sitting
                        on the grass looking out over it all, has his arms about his girl.
                    It would be easy to give an order for ten thousand lovely views of Venice,
                        and get them.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XLI
                    VENICE
                    
                        ASIDE from the cathedral of St. Mark's, the
                        Doge's Palace and the Academy or Venetian gallery of old masters, I
                        could find little of artistic significance in Venicelittle aside from the
                        wonderful spectacle of the city as a whole. As a spectacle, viewed across
                        the open space of water, known as the Lagoon, the churches of San Giorgio
                        Maggiore and Santa Maria Bella Salute with their domes and campaniles
                        strangely transfigured by light and air, are beautiful. Close at hand, for
                        me, they lost much romance which distance gave them, though the mere space
                        of their interiors was impressive. The art, according to my judgment, was
                        bad and in the main I noticed that my guide books agreed with mespiritless
                        religious representations which, after the Sistine Chapel in Rome and such
                        pictures as those of Michelangelo's "Holy Family"
                        and Botticelli's "Adoration of the Magi" in the
                        Uffizi at Florence, were without import. I preferred to speculate on the
                        fear of the plague which had produced the Salute and the discovery of the
                        body of St. Stephen, the martyr, which had given rise to San Giorgio, for it
                        was interesting to think, with these facts before me, how art and spectacle
                        in life so often take their rise from silly, almost pointless causes and a
                        plain lie is more often the foundation of a great institution than a truth.
                        Santa Maria did n't save the citizens of Venice from the plague in
                        1630, and in 1110 the Doge Ordelafo Faliero did not bring back the true body
                        of St. Stephen from, Palestine, although he may have  thought he did,at least there are other "true
                        bodies." But the old, silly progress of illusion, vanity, politics
                        and the like has produced these and other institutions throughout the world
                        and will continue to do so, no doubt, until time shall be no more. It was
                        interesting to me to see the once large and really beautiful Dominican
                        monastery surrounding San Giorgio turned into barracks and offices for
                        government officials. I do not see why these churches should not be turned
                        into libraries or galleries. Their religious import is quite gone.
                    In Venice it was, I think, that I got a little sick of churches and. second-
                        and third-rate art. The city itself is so beautiful, exteriorly speaking,
                        that only the greatest art could be tolerated here, yet aside from the
                        Academy, which is crowded with canvases by Bellini, Tintoretto, Titian,
                        Veronese and others of the Venetian school, and the Ducal Palace, largely
                        decorated by Tintoretto and Veronese, there is nothing, save of course St.
                        Mark's. Outside of that and the churches of the Salute and San
                        Giorgio,both bad, artistically, I think,there are thirty-three or
                        thirty-four other churches all with bits of something which gets them into
                        the catalogues, a Titian, a Tintoretto, a Giorgione or a Paolo Veronese,
                        until the soul wearies and you say to yourself"Well, I've
                        had about enough of thiswhat is the use?"
                    There is no use. Unless you are tracing the rise of religious art, or trying
                        to visit the tombs of semi-celebrated persons, or following out the work of
                        some one man or group of men to the last fragment you might as well desist.
                        There is nothing in it. I sought church after church, entering (lark,
                        pleasant, but not often imposing, interiors only to find a single religious
                        representation of one kind or another hardly worth the trouble. In the Frari
                        I found Titian's famous Madonna of the  Pescaro family and a pretentious mausoleum commemorating Canova, and in
                        Santa Maria Formosa Palma Vecchio's St. Barbara and four other
                        saints, which appealed to me very much, but in the main I was disappointed
                        and made dreary. After St. Peter's, the Vatican, St.
                        Paul's Without the Walls in Rome, the cathedrals at Pisa and
                        elsewhere, and the great galleries of Florence, Venice seemed to me
                        artistically dull. I preferred always to get out into the streets again to
                        see the small shops, to encounter the winding canals, to cross the little
                        bridges and to feel that here was something new and different, far different
                        and more artistic than anything which any church or museum could show.
                    One of the strangest things about Venice to me was the curious manner in
                        which you could always track a great public square or market place of some
                        kind by following some thin trickling of people you would find making their
                        way in a given direction. Suddenly in some quite silent residence section,
                        with all its lovely waterways about you, you would encounter a small thin
                        stream of people going somewhere, perhaps five or six in a row, over
                        bridges, up narrow alleys, over more bridges, through squares or triangles
                        past churches or small stores and constantly swelling in volume until you
                        found yourself in the midst of a small throng turning now right, now left,
                        when suddenly you came out on the great open market place or piazza to which
                        they were all tending. They always struck me as a sheep-like company, these
                        Venetians, very mild, very soft, pattering here and there with vague, almost
                        sad eyes. Here in Venice I saw no newspapers displayed at all, nor ever
                        heard any called, nor saw any read. There was none of that morning vigor
                        which characterizes an American city. It was always more like a quiet
                        village scene to me than any aspect of a fair-sized city. Yet because I was
                             comfortable in Venice and because all the
                        while I was there it was so radiantly beautiful, I left it with real sorrow.
                        To me it was perfect.
                    The one remaining city of Italy that I was yet to see, Milan, because already
                        I had seen so much of Italy and because I was eager to get into Switzerland
                        and Germany, was of small interest to me. It was a long, tedious ride to
                        Milan, and I spent my one clay there rambling about without enthusiasm.
                        Outside of a half-dozen early Christian basilicas, which I sedulously
                        avoided (I employed a guide), there was only the cathedral, the now
                        dismantled palace and fortress of the Sforzas masquerading as a museum and
                        the local art gallery, an imposing affair crowded with that same religious
                        art work of the Renaissance which, one might almost say in the language of
                        the Milwaukee brewer, had made Italy famous. I was, however, about fed up on
                        art. As a cathedral that of Milan seemed as imposing as any, great and
                        wonderful. I was properly impressed with its immense stained-glass windows,
                        said to be the largest in the world, its fifty-two columns supporting its
                        great roof, its ninety-eight pinnacles and two thousand statues. Of a
                        splendid edifice such as this there is really nothing to sayit is like
                        Amiens, Rouen, and Canterburysimply astounding. It would be useless to
                        attempt to describe the emotions it provoked, as useless as to indicate the
                        feelings some of the pictures in the local gallery aroused in me. It would
                        be Amiens all over again, or some of the pictures in the Uffizi. It seemed
                        to me the newest of all the Gothic cathedrals I saw, absolutely preserved in
                        all its details and as recently erected as yesterday, yet it was begun in
                        1386.
                    The wonder of this and of every other cathedral like it that I saw, to me,
                        was never their religious but their  artistic
                        significance. Some one with a splendid imagination must always have been
                        behind each oneand I can never understand the character or the temper of an
                        age or a people that will let anything happen to them.
                    But if I found little of thrilling artistic significance after Rome and the
                        south I was strangely impressed with the modernity of Milan. Europe, to me,
                        is not so old in its texture anywhere as one would suppose. Most European
                        cities of large size are of recent growth, just as American cities are. So
                        many of the great buildings that we think of as time-worn, such as the Ducal
                        Palace at Venice, and elsewhere, are in an excellent state of
                        preservationquite new looking. Venice has many new buildings in the old
                        style. Rome is largely composed of modern tenements and apartment houses.
                        There are elevators in Perugia, and when you reach Milan you find it newer
                        than St. Louis or Cleveland. If there is any medieval spirit anywhere
                        remaining in Milan I could not find it. The shops are bright and attractive.
                        There are large department stores, and the honk-honk of the automobile is
                        quite as common here as anywhere. It has only five hundred thousand
                        population, but, even so, it evidences great commercial force. If you ride
                        out in the suburbs, as I did, you see new houses, new factories, new
                        streets, new everything. Unlike the inhabitants of southern Italy, the
                        people are large physically and I did not understand this until I learned
                        that they are freely mingled with the Germans. The Germans are here in
                        force, in control of the silk mills, the leather manufactories, the
                        restaurants, the hotels, the book stores and printing establishments. It is
                        a wonder to me that they are not in control of the Opera House and the
                        musical activities, and I have no doubt that they influence it greatly. The
                        director of La Scala ought to be a German, if he is not. I got a first
                        suggestion of Paris in the  tables set before
                        the cafs in the Arcade of Vittorio Emanuele and had my first taste of
                        Germany in the purely German beer-halls with their orchestras of men or
                        women, where for a few cents expended for beer you can sit by the hour and
                        listen to the music. In the hotel where I stopped the German precision of
                        regulation was as marked as anywhere in Germany. It caused me to wonder
                        whether the Germans would eventually sweep down and possess Italy and, if
                        they did, what they would make of it or what Italy would make of them.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XLII
                    LUCERNE
                    
                        I ENTERED Switzerland at Chiasso, a little way from Lake
                        Como in Italy, and left it at Basle near the German frontier, and all I saw
                        was mountainsmountainsmountainssome capped with snow and some without, tall,
                        sharp, craggy peaks, and rough, sharp declivities, with here and there a
                        patch of grass, here and there a deep valley, here and there a lonely,
                        wide-roofed, slab-built house with those immense projecting eaves first made
                        familiar to me by the shabby adaptations which constitute our
                        "L" stations in New York. The landscape hardens
                        perceptibly a little way out of Milan. High slopes and deep lakes appear; At
                        Chiasso, the first stop in Switzerland, I handed the guard a half-dozen
                        letters I had written in Milan and stamped with Italian stamps. I did not
                        know until I did this that we were out of Italy, had already changed guards
                        and that a new crewSwisswas in charge of the train.
                        "Monsieur," he said, tapping the stamp significantly,
                        "vows tes en Suisee." I do not understand French, but I
                        did comprehend that, and I perceived also that I was talking to a Swiss. All
                        the people on the platform were "Schweitzers "as the
                        Germans call them, fair, chunky, stolid-looking souls without a touch of
                        that fire or darkness so generally present a few miles south. Why should a
                        distance of ten miles, five miles, make such an astonishing change? It is
                        one of the strangest experiences of travel, to cross an imaginary
                        boundary-line and find everything different; 
                        people, dress, architecture, landscape, often soil and foliage. It proves
                        that countries are not merely soil and climatic conditions but that there is
                        something morea race stock which is not absolutely a product of the soil and
                        which refuses to yield entirely to climate. Races like animals have an
                        origin above soil and do hold their own in spite of changed or changing
                        climatic conditions. Cross any boundary you like from one country into
                        another and judge for yourself.
                    Now that I was started, really out of Italy, I was ready for any change, the
                        more marked the better; and here was one. Switzerland is about as much like
                        Italy as a rock is like a bouquet of flowersa sharp-edged rock and a rich
                        colorful, odorous bouquet. And yet, in spite of all its chill, bare
                        bleakness, its high ridges and small shut-in valleys, it has beauty; cold
                        but real. As the train sped on toward Lucerne I kept my face glued to the
                        window-pane on one side or the other, standing most of the time in the
                        corridor, and was rewarded constantly by a magnificent panorama. Such bleak,
                        sharp crags as stood always above us, such cold, white fields of snow!
                        Sometimes the latter stretched down toward us in long deep caons or ravines
                        until they disappeared as thin white streaks at the bottom. I saw no birds
                        of any kind flying; no gardens nor patches of flowers anywhere, only brown
                        or gray or white chlets with heavy over-hanging eaves and an occasional
                        stocky, pale-skinned citizen in a short jacket, knee trousers, small round
                        hat and flamboyant waistcoat. I wondered whether I was really seeing the
                        national costume. I was. I saw more of it at Lucerne, that most hotelly of
                        cities, and in the mountains and valleys of the territory beyond ittoward
                        Basle. Somebody once said of God that he might love all the creatures he had
                        made but he certainly could n't admire them. I will reverse that
                        for Switzerland.  I might always admire its
                        wonders but I could never love them.
                    And yet after hours and hours of just this twisting and turning up slope and
                        down valley, when I reached Lucerne I thought it was utterly beautiful. Long
                        before we reached there the lake appeared and we followed its shores,
                        whirling in and out of tunnels and along splendid slopes. Arrived at
                        Lucerne, I came out into the piazza which spreads before the station to the
                        very edge of the lake. I was instantly glad that I had included Lucerne in
                        my itinerary. It was evening and the lamps in the village (it is not a large
                        city) were already sparkling and the water of the lake not only reflected
                        the glow of the lamps along its shores but the pale pinks and mauves over
                        the tops of the peaks in the west. There was snow on the upper stretches of
                        the mountains but down here in this narrow valley filled with quaint houses,
                        hotels, churches and modern apartments, all was balmy and pleasant,not at
                        all cold. My belongings were bundled into the attendant 'bus and I
                        was rattled off to one of the best hotels I saw abroadthe Nationalof the
                        Ritz-Carlton system; very quiet, very ornate, and with all those
                        conveniences and comforts which the American has learned to expect, plus a
                        European standard of service and politeness of which we can as yet know
                        nothing in America.
                    I am afraid I have an insatiable appetite for natural beauty. I am
                        entertained by character, thrilled by art, but of all the enlarging
                        spiritual influences the natural panorama is to me the most important. This
                        night, after my first day of rambling about Lucerne, I sat out on my hotel
                        balcony, overlooking the lake and studied the dim moonlit outlines of the
                        peaks crowding about it, the star-shine reflected in the water, the still
                        distances and the moon sinking over the peaks to the west of the  quaint city. Art has no method of including,
                        or suggesting even, these vast sidereal spaces. The wonder of the night and
                        moonlight is scarcely for the painter's brush. It belongs in verse,
                        the drama, great literary pageants such as those of Balzac, Turgenieff and
                        Flaubert, but not in pictures. The human eye can see so much and the human
                        heart responds so swiftly that it is only by suggestion that anything is
                        achieved in art. Art cannot give you the night in all its fullness save as,
                        by suggestion, it brings back the wonder of the reality which you have
                        already felt and seen.
                    I think perhaps of the two impressions that I retained most distinctly of
                        Lucerne, that of the evening and of the morning, the morning was best. I
                        came out on my balcony at dawn, the first morning after I arrived, when the
                        lake was lying below me in glassy, olive-black stillness. Up the bank to my
                        left were trees, granite slopes, a small chlet built out over the water, its
                        spiles standing in the still lake in a soothing, restful way. To my right,
                        at the foot of the lake, lay Lucerne, its quaint outlines but vaguely
                        apparent in the shadow. Across the lake only a little space were small
                        boats, a dock, a church, and beyond them, in a circle, gray-black peaks. At
                        their extreme summits along a rough, horny skyline were the suggestions of
                        an electric dawn, a pale, steely gray brightening from dark into light.
                    It was not cold at Lucerne, though it was as yet only early March. The air
                        was as soft and balmy as at Venice. As I sat there the mountain skyline
                        brightened first to a faint pink, the snow on the ridges took on a lavender
                        and bluish hue as at evening, the green of the lower slopes became softly
                        visible and the water began to reflect the light of the sky, the shadow of
                        the banks, the little boats, and even some wild ducks flying over its
                        surface,ducks coming from what bleak,  drear
                        spaces I could only guess. Presently I saw a man come out from a hotel,
                        enter a small canoe and paddle away in the direction of the upper lake. No
                        other living thing appeared until the sky had changed from pink to blue, the
                        water to a rich silvery gray, the green to a translucent green and the rays
                        of the sun came finally glistering over the peaks. Then the rough notches
                        and gaps of the mountainsgray where blown clear of snow, or white where
                        filled with ittook on a sharp, brilliant roughness. You could see the cold
                        peaks outlined clearly in the water, and the little steeples of the
                        churches. My wild ducks were still paddling briskly about. I noticed that a
                        particular pair found great difficulty in finding the exact spot to suit
                        them. With a restless quank, quank, quank, they would rise and fly a space
                        only to light with a soft splatter and quack cheerfully. When they saw the
                        lone rower returning they followed him, coming up close to the hotel dock
                        and paddling smartly in his vicinity. I watched him fasten his boat and
                        contemplate the ducks. After he had gone away I wondered if they were pets
                        of his. Then the day having clearly come, I went inside.
                    By ten o'clock all Lucerne seemed to have come out to promenade
                        along the smooth walks that border the shore. Pretty church-bells in severe,
                        conical towers began to ring and students in small, dark, tambourine-like
                        hats, jackets, tight trousers, and carrying little canes about the size of
                        batons, began to walk smartly up and down. There were a few travelers
                        present, wintering here, no doubt,English and Americans presenting their
                        usual severe, intellectual, inquiring and self-protective dispositions. They
                        stood out in sharp contrast to the native Swiss,a fair, stolid, quiescent
                        people. The town itself by day I found to be as clean, spruce and orderly as
                        a private pine forest. I never saw a more spick  and span place, not even in ge-washed and ge-brushed Germany.
                    This being Sunday and wonderfully fair, I decided to take the trip up the
                        lake on one of the two small steamers that I saw anchored at apparently
                        rival docks. They may have served boats plying on different arms of the
                        lake. On this trip I fell in with a certain "Major Y. Myata, M.D.,
                        Surgeon, Imperial Japanese Army" as his card read, who, I soon
                        learned, was doing Europe much as I was, only entirely alone. I first saw
                        him as he bought his ticket on board the steamer at Lucerne,a small, quiet,
                        wiry man, very keen and observant, who addressed the purser in English first
                        and later in German. He came on the top deck into the first-class section, a
                        fair-sized camera slung over his shoulder, a notebook sticking out of the
                        pocket, and finding a seat, very carefully dusted his small feet with the
                        extreme corners of his military overcoat, and rubbed his thin, horse-hairy
                        mustache with a small, claw-like hand. He looked about in a quiet way and
                        began after the boat started to take pictures and make copious notes. He had
                        small, piercing, bird-like eyes and a strangely unconscious-seeming manner
                        which was in reality anything but unconscious. We fell to talking of
                        Switzerland, Germany and Italy, where he had been, and by degrees I learned
                        the route of his trip, or what he chose to tell me of it, and his opinions
                        concerning Europe and the Far Eastas much as he chose to communicate.
                    It appeared that before coming to Europe this time he had made but one other
                        trip out of Japan, namely to California, where he had spent a year. He had
                        left Japan in October, sailed direct for London and reached it in November;
                        had already been through Holland and Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, and
                        was bound for Munich and Hungary and, not strange to relate, Russia.  He was coming to AmericaNew York
                        particularly, and was eager to know of a good hotel. I mentioned twenty. He
                        spoke English, French, Italian and German, although he had never before been
                        anywhere except to California. I knew he spoke German, for I talked to him
                        in that language and after finding that he could speak it better than I
                        could I took his word for the rest. We lunched together. I mentioned the
                        little I knew of the Japanese in New York. He brightened consider-ably. We
                        compared travel notesItaly, France, England. "I do not like the
                        Italians," he observed in one place. "I think they are
                        tricky. They do not tell the truth."
                    "They probably held up your baggage at the station."
                    "They did more than that to me. I could never depend on
                        them."
                    "How do you like the Germans?" I asked him.
                    "A very wonderful people. Very civil I thought. The Rhine is
                        beautiful."
                    I had to smile when I learned that he had done the night cafs of Paris, had
                        contrasted English and French farce as represented by the Empire and the
                        Folies-Bergre, and knew all about the Post Impressionists and the Futurists
                        or Cubists. The latter he did not understand. "It is
                        possible," he said in his strange, sing-songy way, "that
                        they represent some motives of constructive sub-conscious mind with which we
                        are not any of us familiar yet. Electricity came to man in some such way as
                        that. I do not know. I do not pretend to understand it."
                    At the extreme upper end of Lucerne where the boat stopped, we decided to get
                        out and take the train back. He was curious to see the shrine or tomb of
                        William Tell which was listed as being near here, but when he learned that
                        it was two or three miles and that we would miss a fast train, he was
                        willing to give it up.
                    
                    With a strange, old-world wisdom he commented on the political organization
                        of Switzerland, saying that it struck him as strange that these Alpine
                        fastnesses should ever have achieved an identity of their own.
                        "They have always been separate communities until quite
                        recently," he said, "and I think that perhaps only
                        rail-roads, tunnels, telegraph and telephone have made their complete union
                        satisfactory now."
                    I marveled at the wisdom of this Oriental as I do at so many of them. They
                        are so intensely matter-of-fact and practical. Their industry is uncanny.
                        This man talked to me of Alpine botany as contrasted with that of some of
                        the mountain regions of Japan and then we talked of Lincoln, Grant,
                        Washington, Li Hung Chang and Richard Wagner. He suggested quite simply that
                        it was probable that Germany's only artistic outlet was music.
                    I was glad to have the company of Major Myata for dinner that same evening,
                        for nothing could have been duller than the very charming Louis Quinze
                        dining-room filled with utterly conventional American and English visitors.
                        Small, soldierly, erect, he made quite an impression as he entered with me.
                        The Major had been in two battles of the Russian-Japanese War and had
                        witnessed an attack somewhere one night after midnight in a snowstorm. Here
                        at table as he proceeded to explain in his quiet way, by means of knives and
                        forks, the arrangement of the lines and means of caring for the wounded, I
                        saw the various diners studying him. He was a very forceful-looking person.
                        Very. He told me of the manner in which the sanitary and surgical equipment
                        and control of the Japanese army had been completely revolutionized since
                        the date of the Japanese-Russian War and that now all the present equipment
                        was new. "The great things in our army to-day," he
                        observed  very quietly at one point,
                        "are artillery and sanitation." A fine combination! He
                        left me at midnight, after several hours in various cafs.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XLIII
                    ENTERING GERMANY
                    
                        IF a preliminary glance at Switzerland suggested to me a
                        high individuality, primarily Teutonic but secondarily national and
                        distinctive, all I saw afterwards in Germany and Holland with which I
                        contrasted it, confirmed my first impression. I believe that the Swiss, for
                        all that they speak the German language and have an architecture that
                        certainly has much in common with that of medieval Germany, are yet of
                        markedly diverging character. They struck me in the main as colder, more
                        taciturn, more introspective and less flamboyant than the Germans. The rank
                        and file, in so far as I could see, were extremely sparing, saving,
                        reserved. They reminded me more of such Austrians and Tyrolians as I have
                        known, than of Germans. They were thinner, livelier in their actions, not so
                        lusty nor yet so aggressive.
                    The new architecture which I saw between Lucerne and the German frontier
                        reminded me of much of that which one sees in northern Ohio and Indiana and
                        southern Michigan. There are still traces of the over-elaborate curlicue
                        type of structure and decoration so interesting as being representative of
                        medieval Teutonic life, but not much. The new manufacturing towns were very
                        clean and spruce with modern factory buildings of the latest
                        almost-all-glass type; and churches and public buildings, obviously an
                        improvement or an attempt at improvement on older Swiss and Teutonic ideals,
                        were everywhere apparent. Lucerne itself is divided into an old section,
                        honored and preserved for its historic and commercial value, as being
                        attractive to travelers; a new  section,
                        crowded with stores, tenements and apartments of the latest German and
                        American type; and a hotel section, filled with large Anglicized and
                        Parisianized structures, esplanades, small lounging squares and the like. I
                        never bothered to look at Thorwaldsen's famous lion. One look at a
                        photograph years ago alienated me forever.
                    I had an interesting final talk on the morning of my departure from Lucerne
                        with the resident manager of the hotel who was only one of many employees of
                        a company that controlled, so he told me, hotels in Berlin, Frankfort,
                        Paris, Rome and London. He had formerly been resident manager of a hotel in
                        Frankfort, the one to which I was going, and said that he might be
                        transferred any time to some other one. He was the man, as I learned, whom I
                        had seen rowing on the lake the first morning I sat out on my balconythe one
                        whom the wild ducks followed.
                    "I saw you," I said as I paid my bill, "out rowing
                        on the lake the other morning. I should say that was pleasant
                        exercise."
                    "I always do it," he said very cheerfully. He was a tall,
                        pale, meditative man with a smooth, longish, waxen countenance and very dark
                        hair. He was the last word as to toilet and courtesy. "I am glad to
                        have the chance. I love nature."
                    "Are those wild ducks I see on the lake flying about?"
                    "Oh, yes. We have lots of them. They are not allowed to be shot.
                        That's why they come here. We have gulls, too. There is a whole
                        flock of gulls that conies here every winter. I feed them right out here at
                        the dock every day."
                    "Why, where can they come from?" I asked. "This is
                        a long way from the sea."
                    "I know it," he replied. "It is strange. They come
                             over the Alps from the Mediterranean I
                        suppose. You will see them on the Rhine, too, if you go there. I
                        don't know. They come though. Sometimes they leave for four or five
                        days or a week, but they always come back. The captain of the steamer tells
                        me he thinks they go to some other lake. They know me though. When they come
                        back in the fall and I go out to feed them they make a great fuss."
                    "They are the same gulls, then?"
                    "The very same."
                    I had to smile.
                    "Those two ducks are great friends of mine, too," he went
                        on, referring to the two I had seen following him. "They always
                        come up to the dock when I come out and when I come back from my row they
                        come again. Oh, they make a great clatter."
                    He looked at me and smiled in a pleased way.
                    The train which I boarded at Lucerne was a through express from Milan to
                        Frankfort with special cars for Paris and Berlin. It was crowded with
                        Germans of a ruddy, solid variety, radiating health, warmth, assurance,
                        defiance. I never saw a more marked contrast than existed between these
                        travelers on the train and the local Swiss outside. The latter seemed much
                        paler and less forceful by contrast, though not less intellectual and
                        certainly more refined.
                    One stout, German lady, with something like eighteen packages, had made a
                        veritable express room of her second-class compartment. The average
                        traveler, entitled to a seat beside her, would take one look at her defenses
                        and pass on. She was barricaded beyond any hope of successful attack.
                    I watched interestedly to see how the character of the people, soil and
                        climate would change as we crossed  the
                        frontier into Germany. Every other country I had entered had presented a
                        great contrast to the last. After passing fifteen or twenty Swiss towns and
                        small cities, perhaps more, we finally reached Basle and there the crew was
                        changed. I did not know it, being busy thinking of other things, until an
                        immense, rotund, guttural-voiced conductor appeared at the door and wanted
                        to know if I was bound for Frankfort. I looked out. It was just as I
                        expected: another world and another atmosphere had been substituted for that
                        of Switzerland. Already the cars and depot platforms were different, heavier
                        I thought, more pretentious. Heavy German porters (packtrger) were in
                        evidence. The cars, the vast majority of them here, bore the label of
                        Imperial Germanythe wide-winged, black eagle with the crown above it,
                        painted against a pinkish-white background, with the inscription
                        "Kaiserlicher Deutsche Post." A station-master, erect as a
                        soldier, very large, with splendiferous parted whiskers, arrayed in a blue
                        uniform and cap, regulated the departure of trains. The
                        "Uscita" and "Entrata" of Italy here
                        became "Ein-gang" and "Ausgang," and the
                        "Bagaglia" of every Italian station was here
                        "Gepck." The endless German "Verboten,"
                        and "Es ist untersagt" also came into evidence. We rolled
                        out into a wide, open, flat, mountainless plain with only the thin poplars
                        of France in evidence and no waterways of any kind, and then I knew that
                        Switzerland was truly no more.
                    If you want to see how the lesser Teutonic countries vary from this greater
                        one, the dominant German Empire, pass this way from Switzerland into
                        Germany, or from Germany into Holland. At Basle, as I have said, we left the
                        mountains for once and for all. I saw but few frozen peaks after Lucerne. As
                        we approached Basle they seemed to grow less and less  and beyond that we entered a flat plain, as flat as Kansas and
                        as arable as the Mississippi Valley, which stretched unbroken from Basle to
                        Frankfort and from Frankfort to Berlin. Judging from what I saw the major
                        part of Germany is a vast prairie, as flat as a pancake and as thickly
                        strewn with orderly, new, bright forceful towns as England is with quaint
                        ones.
                    However, now that I was here, I observed that it was just these qualities
                        which make Germany powerful and the others weak. Such thoroughness, such
                        force, such universal superintendence! Truly it is amazing. Once you are
                        across the border, if you are at all sensitive to national or individual
                        personalities you can feel it, vital, glowing, entirely superior and more
                        ominous than that of Switzerland, or Italy, and often less pleasant. It is
                        very much like the heat and glow of a furnace. Germany is a great forge or
                        workshop. It resounds with the industry of a busy nation; it has all the
                        daring and assurance of a successful man; it struts, commands, defies,
                        asserts itself at every turn. You would not want to witness greater variety
                        of character than you could by passing from England through France into
                        Germany. After the stolidity and civility of the English, and the lightness
                        and spirit of France, the blazing force and defiance of the Germans comes
                        upon you as almost the most amazing of all.
                    In spite of the fact that my father was German and that I have known more or
                        less of Germans all my life. I cannot say that I admired the personnel of
                        the German Empire, the little that I saw of it, half so much as I admired
                        some of the things they had apparently achieved. All the stations that I saw
                        in Germany were in apple-pie order, new, bright, well-ordered. Big
                        blue-lettered signs indicated just the things you wanted to know.
                    
                    The station platforms were exceedingly well built of red tile and white
                        stone; the tracks looked as though they were laid on solid hardwood ties;
                        the train ran as smoothly as if there were no flaws in it anywhere and it
                        ran swiftly. I had to smile as occasionally on a platformthe train speeding
                        swiftlya straight, upstanding German officer or official, his uniform
                        looking like new, his boots polished, his gold epaulets and buckles shining
                        as brightly as gold can shine, his blond whiskers, red cap, glistening
                        glasses or bright monocle, and above all his sharp, clear eyes looking
                        directly at you, making an almost amazing combination of energy, vitality
                        and superiority, came into view and disappeared again. It gave you a
                        startling impression of the whole of Germany. "Are they all like
                        that?" I asked myself. "Is the army really so dashing and
                        forceful?"
                    As I traveled first to Frankfort, then to Mayence, Coblenz and Cologne and
                        again from Cologne to Frankfort and Berlin, and thence out of the country
                        via Holland, the wonder grew. I should say now that if Germany has any
                        number of defects of temperament, and it truly has from almost any American
                        point of view, it has virtues and capacities so noteworthy, admirable and
                        advantageous that the whole world may well sit up and take notice. The one
                        thing that came home to me with great force was that Germany is in no way
                        loose jointed or idle but, on the contrary, strong, red-blooded, avid,
                        imaginative. Germany is a terrific nation, hopeful, courageous,
                        enthusiastic, orderly, self-disciplining, at present anyhow, and if it can
                        keep its pace without engaging in some vast, self-destroying conflict, it
                        can become internally so powerful that it will almost stand irresistible. I
                        should say that any nation that to-day  chose
                        to pick a quarrel with Germany on her home ground would be foolish in the
                        extreme. It is the beau ideal of the aggressive, militant, orderly spirit
                        and, if it were properly captained and the gods were kind, it would be
                        everywhere invincible.
                    When I entered Germany it was with just two definite things in mind. One was
                        to seek out my father's birthplace, a little hamlet, as I
                        understood it, called Mayen, located somewhere between the Moselle and the
                        Rhine at Coblenz,the region where the Moselle wines come from. The other was
                        to visit Berlin and see what Germany's foremost city was really
                        like and to get a look at the Kaiser if possible. In both of these I was
                        quickly successful, though after I reached Frankfort some other things
                        transpired which were not on the program.
                    Frankfort was a disappointment to me at first. It was a city of over four
                        hundred thousand population, clean, vigorous, effective; but I saw it in a
                        rain, to begin with, and I did not like it. It was too squat in
                        appearancetoo unvarying in its lines; it seemed to have no focal point such
                        as one finds in all medieval cities. What has come over the spirit of city
                        governments, directing architects, and individual enterprise? Is there no
                        one who wants really to do the very exceptional thing? No German city I saw
                        had a central heart worthy of the nameno Piazza del Campidoglio such as Rome
                        has; no Piazza, della Signoria such as Florence has; no Piazza San Marco
                        such as Venice has; not even a cathedral center, lovely thing that it is,
                        such as Milan has. Paris with its Gardens of the Tuileries, its
                        Champs-de-Mars, its Esplanades des Invalides, and its Arc de Triomphe and
                        Place de l'Opra, does so much better in this matter than any German
                        city has dreamed of doing. Even London has its splendid focal point about
                        the  Houses of Parliament, St. Paul's
                        and the Embankment, which are worth something. But German cities! Yet they
                        are worthy cities, every one of them, and far more vital than those of
                        Italy.
                    I should like to relate first, however, the story of the vanishing
                        birthplace. Ever since I was three or four years old and dandled on my
                        father's knee in our Indiana homestead, I had heard more or less of
                        Mayen, Coblenz, and the region on the Rhine from which my father came. As we
                        all know, the Germans are a sentimental, fatherland-loving race and my
                        father, honest German Catholic that he was, was no exception. He used to
                        tell me what a lovely place Mayen was, how the hills rose about it, how
                        grape-growing was its principal industry, how there were castles there and
                        grafs and rich burghers, and how there was a wall about the city which in
                        his day constituted it an armed fortress, and how often as a little child he
                        had been taken out through some one of its great gates seated on the saddle
                        of some kindly minded cavalryman and galloped about the drill-ground. He
                        seems to have become, by the early death of his mother and second marriage
                        of his father, a rather unwelcome stepchild and, early, to escape being
                        draughted for the Prussian army which had seized this townwhich only a few
                        years before had belonged to France, though German enough in characterhe had
                        secretly decamped to the border with three others and so made his way to
                        Paris. Later he came to America, made his way by degrees to Indiana,
                        established a woolen-mill on the banks of the Wabash at Terre Haute and
                        there, after marrying in Ohio, raised his large family. His first love was
                        his home town, however, and Prussia, which he admired; and to his dying day
                        he never ceased talking about it. On more than one occasion he told me he
                        would like to go back, just to  see how things
                        were, but the Prussian regulations concerning deserters or those who avoided
                        service were so drastic and the likelihood of his being recognized so great
                        that he was afraid of being seized and at least thrown into prison if not
                        shot, so he never ventured it. I fancy this danger of arrest and his feeling
                        that he could not return cast an additional glamour over the place and the
                        region which he could never revisit. Anyhow I was anxious to see Mayen and
                        to discover if the family name still persisted there.
                    When I consulted with the Cook's agent at Rome he had promptly
                        announced, "There is n't any such place as Mayen.
                        You're thinking of Mayence, near Frankfort, on the Rhine."
                    "No," I said, "I'm not. I'm
                        thinking of MayenM-a-y-e-n. Now you look and see."
                    "There is n't any such place, I tell you," he
                        replied courteously. "It's Mayence, not very far from
                        Frank-fort."
                    "Let me see," I argued, looking at his map.
                        "It's near the junction of the Rhine and the
                        Moselle."
                    "Mayence is the place. See, here it is. Here's the Moselle
                        and here's Mayence."
                    I looked, and sure enough they seemed reasonably close together.
                        "All right," I said, "give me a ticket to Berlin
                        via Mayence."
                    "I'll book you to Frankfort. That's only thirty
                        minutes away. There's nothing of interest at Mayencenot even a good
                        hotel."
                    Arrived at Frankfort, I decided not to send my trunks to the hotel as yet but
                        to take one light bag, leaving the remainder "im
                            Gepck" and see what I could at Mayence. I might want to
                        stay all night, wandering about my father's old haunts, and I might
                        want to go down the Rhine a little wayI was not sure.
                    
                    The Mayence to which I was going was not the Mayen that I wanted, but I did
                        not know that. You have heard of people weeping over the wrong tombstones.
                        This was a case in point. Fortunately I was going in the direction of the
                        real Mayen, though I did not know that either. I ran through a country which
                        reminded me very much of the region in which Terre Haute is located and I
                        said to myself quite wisely: "Now I can see why my father and so
                        many other Germans from this region settled in southern Indiana. It is like
                        their old home. The wide, flat fields are the same."
                    When we reached Mayence and I had deposited my kit-bag, for the time being I
                        strolled out into the principal streets wondering whether I should get the
                        least impression of the city or town as it was when my father was here as a
                        boy. It is curious and amusing how we can delude ourselves at times. Mayence
                        I really knew, if I had stopped to consider, could not be the Mayen, where
                        my father was born. The former was the city of that Bishop-Elector Albert of
                        Brandenburg who in need of a large sum of money to pay Rome for the
                        privilege of assuming the archbishopric, when he already held two other
                        sees, made an arrangement with Pope Leo Xthe Medici pope who was then trying
                        to raise money to rebuild or enlarge St. Peter'sto superintend the
                        sale of indulgences in Germany (taking half the proceeds in reward for his
                        services) and thus by arousing the ire of Luther helped to bring about the
                        Reformation in Germany. This was the city also of that amiable Dominican
                        Prior, John Tetzel, who, once appealing for ready purchasers for his
                        sacerdotal wares declared:
                    "Do you not hear your dead parents crying out 'Have mercy
                        on us? We are in sore pain and you can set us free for a mere pittance. We
                        have borne you, we have trained and educated you, we have left you all our
                        property,  and you are so hard-hearted and
                        cruel that you leave us to roast in the flames when you could so easily
                        release us.'"
                    I shall always remember Mayence by that ingenious advertisement. My father
                        had described to me a small, walled town with frowning castles set down in a
                        valley among hills. He had said over and over that it was located at the
                        junction of the Rhine and the Moselle. I recalled afterward that he told me
                        that the city of Coblenz was very near by, but in my brisk effort to find
                        this place quickly I had forgotten that. Here I was in a region which
                        contained not a glimpse of any hills from within the city, the Moselle was
                        all of a hundred miles away, and no walls of any medieval stronghold were
                        visible anywhere and yet I was reasonably satisfied that this was the place.
                    "Dear me," I thought, "how Mayence has grown. My
                        father would n't know it." (Baedeker gave its population
                        at one hundred and ten thousand). "How Germany has grown in the
                        sixty-five years since he was here. It used to be a town of three or four
                        thousand. Now it is a large city." I read about it assiduously in
                        Baedeker and looked at the rather thriving streets of the business heart,
                        trying to visualize it as it should have been in 1843. Until midnight I was
                        wandering about in the dark and bright streets of Mayence, satisfying myself
                        with the thought that I was really seeing the city in which my father was
                        born.
                    For a city of so much historic import Mayence was very dull. It was built
                        after the theories of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries with, however,
                        many modern improvements. The Cathedral was a botch, ornamented with
                        elaborate statues of stuffy bishops and electors. The houses were done in
                        many places in that heavy scroll fashion common to medieval Germany.
                    
                    The streets were narrow and winding. I saw an awful imitation of our modern
                        Coney Island in the shape of a moving circus which was camped on one of the
                        public camping places. A dull heavy place, all told.
                    Coming into the breakfast-room of my hotel the next morning, I encountered a
                        man who looked to me like a German traveling salesman. He had brought his
                        grip down to the desk and was consuming his morning coffee and rolls with
                        great gusto, the while he read his paper. I said to him, "Do you
                        know of any place in this part of Germany that is called Mayen?not
                        Mayence." I wanted to make sure of my location.
                    "Mayen? Mayen?" he replied. "Why, yes. I think
                        there is such a place near Coblenz. It is n't very large."
                    "Coblenz! That's it," I replied, recalling now
                        what my father had told me of Coblenz. "To be sure. How far is
                        that?"
                    "Oh, that is all of three hours from here. It is at the juncture of
                        the Moselle."
                    "Do you know how the trains run?" I asked, getting up, a
                        feeling of disgusted disappointment spreading over me.
                    "I think there is one around half-past nine or ten."
                    "Damn!" I said, realizing what a dunce I had been. I had
                        just forty-five minutes in which to pay my bill and make the train. Three
                        hours more! I could have gone on the night before.
                    I hurried out, secured my bag, paid my bill and was off. On the way I had
                        myself driven to the old "Juden-Gasse," said to be full of
                        picturesque medieval houses, for a look. I reached the depot in time to have
                        a two-minute argument with my driver as to whether he was entitled to two
                        marks or oneone being a fair rewardand then hurried into my train, Ina half
                        hour we  were at Bingen-on-the-Rhine, and in
                        three-quarters of an hour those lovely hills and ravines which make the
                        Rhine so picturesque had begun, and they continued all the way to Coblenz
                        and below that to Cologne.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XLIV
                    A MEDIEVAL TOWN
                    
                        AFTER Italy and Switzerland the scenery of the Rhine
                        seemed very mild and unpretentious to me, yet it was very beautiful. The
                        Hudson from Albany to New York is far more imposing. A score of American
                        rivers such as the Penobscot, the New in West Virginia, the James above
                        Lynchburg, the Rio Grande, and others would make the Rhine seem simple by
                        comparison; yet it has an individuality so distinct that it is unforgetable.
                        I always marvel over this thingpersonality. Nothing under the sun explains
                        it. So, often you can say "this is finer," "that
                        is more imposing," "by comparison this is
                        nothing," but when you have said all this, the thing with
                        personality rises up and triumphs. So it is with the Rhine. Like millions
                        before me and millions yet to come, I watched its slopes, its castles, its
                        islands, its pretty little German towns passing in review before the windows
                        of this excellent train and decided that in its way nothing could be finer
                        It had personality. A snatch of old wall, with peach trees in blossom; a
                        long thin side-wheel steamer, one smokestack fore and another aft, labeled
                        "William Egan Gesellschaft"; a dismantled castle tower,
                        with a flock of crows flying about it and hills laid out in ordered squares
                        of vines gave it all the charm it needed.
                    When Coblenz was reached, I bustled out, ready to inspect Mayen at once.
                        Another disappointment. Mayen was not at Coblenz but fifteen or eighteen
                        miles  away on a small branch road, the trains
                        of which ran just four times a day, but I did not learn this until, as
                        usual, I had done considerable investigating. According to my map Mayen
                        appeared to be exactly at the junction of the Rhine and the Moselle, which
                        was here, but when I asked a small boy dancing along a Coblenz street where
                        the Moselle was, he informed me, "If you walk fast you will get
                        there in half an hour!"
                    When I reached the actual juncture of the Rhine and the Moselle, however, I
                        found I was mistaken; I was entertained at first by a fine view of the two
                        rivers, darkly walled by hills and a very massive and, in a way, impressive
                        equestrian statue of Emperor William I, armed in the most flamboyant and
                        aggressive military manner and looking sternly down on the fast-traveling
                        and uniting waters of the two rivers. Idling about the base of this
                        monument, to catch sightseers, was a young picture-post-card seller with a
                        box of views of the Rhine, Coblenz, Cologne and other cities, for sale. He
                        was a very humble-looking youth,a bit doleful,who kept following me about
                        until I bought some post-cards. "Where is Mayen?" I asked,
                        as I began to select a few pictures of things I had and had not seen, for
                        future reference.
                    "Mayence?" he asked doubtfully. "Mayence? Oh, that
                        is a great way from here. Mayence is up the river near Frankfort."
                    "No, no," I replied irritably. (This matter was getting to
                        be a sore point with me.) "I have just come from Mayence. I am
                        looking for Mayen. Is n't it over there somewhere?" I
                        pointed to the fields over the river.
                    He shook his head. "Mayen!" he said. "I
                        don't think there is such a place."
                    "Good heavens!" I exclaimed, "what are you talking
                             about? Here it is on the map. What is
                        that? Do you live here in Coblenz?"
                    "Gewiss!" he replied. "I live here."
                    "Very good, then. Where is Mayen?"
                    "I have never heard of it," he replied.
                    "My God!" I exclaimed to myself, "perhaps it was
                        destroyed in the Franco-Prussian War. Maybe there is n't any
                        Mayen."
                    "You have lived here all your life," I said, turning to my
                        informant, "and you have never heard of Mayen?"
                    "Mayen, no. Mayence, yes. It is up the river near
                        Frankfort."
                    "Don't tell me that again!" I said peevishly, and
                        walked off. The elusiveness of my father's birthplace was getting
                        on my nerves. Finally I found a car-line which ended at the river and a
                        landing wharf and hailed the conductor and motorman who were idling together
                        for a moment.
                    "Where is Mayen?" I asked.
                    "Mayence?" they said, looking at me curiously.
                    "No, no. M-a-y-e-n, Mayennot Mayence. It 's a small town
                        around here somewhere."
                    "Mayen! Mayen!" they repeated. "Mayen!"
                        And then frowned.
                    "Oh, God!" I sighed. I got out my map. "Mayen
                        see?" I said.
                    "Oh, yes," one of them replied brightly, putting tip a
                        finger. "That is so. There is a place called
                        Mayen! It is out that way. You must take the train."
                    "How many miles?" I asked.
                    "About fifteen. It will take you about an hour and a half."
                    I went back to the station and found I must wait another two hours before my
                        train left. I had reached the point where I did n't care a picayune
                        whether I ever  got to my father's
                        town or not. Only a dogged determination not to be beaten kept me at it.
                    It was at Coblenz, while waiting for my train, that I had my first real taste
                        of the German army. Around a corner a full regiment suddenly came into view.
                        They swung past me and crossed a bridge over the Rhine, their brass helmets
                        glittering. Their trousers were gray and their jackets red, and they marched
                        with a slap, slap, slap of their feet that was positively ominous. Every
                        man's body was as erect as a poker; every man's gun was
                        carried with almost loving grace over his shoulder. They were all big men,
                        stolid and broad-chested. As they filed over the bridge, four abreast, they
                        looked, at that distance, like a fine scarlet ribbon with a streak of gold
                        in it. They eventually disappeared between the green hills on the other
                        side.
                    In another part of the city I came upon a company of perhaps fifty, marching
                        in loose formation and talking cheerfully to one another. Behind me, coming
                        toward the soldiers, was an officer, one of those band-box gentlemen in the
                        long gray, military coat of the Germans, the high-crowned, low-visored cap,
                        and lacquered boots. I learned before I was out of Germany to listen for the
                        clank of their swords. The moment the sergeant in charge of the men saw this
                        officer in the distance, he gave vent to a low command which brought the men
                        four by four instantly. In the next breath their guns, previously swinging
                        loosely in their hands, were over their shoulders and as the officer drew
                        alongside a sharp "Vorwrts!" produced
                        that wonderful jack-knife motion "the goose-step"each leg
                        brought rigidly to a level with the abdomen as they went slapslapslapping
                        by, until the officer was gone. Then, at a word, they fell into their old
                        easy formation again and were human beings once more.
                    
                    It was to me a most vivid glimpse of extreme military efficiency. All the
                        while I was in Germany I never saw a lounging soldier. The officers, all men
                        of fine stature, were so showily tailored as to leave a sharp impression.
                        They walked briskly, smartly, defiantly, with a tremendous air of assurance
                        but not of vainglory. They were so superior to anything else in Germany that
                        for me they made it. But to continue.
                    At half-past two my train departed and I entered a fourth-class
                        compartmentthe only class one could book for on this branch road. They were
                        hard, woodenseated little cars, as stiff and heavy as cars could possibly
                        be. My mind was full of my father's ancestral heath and the quaint
                        type of life that must have been lived here a hundred years before. This was
                        a French border country. My father, when he ran away, had escaped into
                        Alsace, near by. He told me once of being whipped for stealing cherries,
                        because his father's house adjoined the priest's yard and
                        a cherry-tree belonging to that holy man had spread its branches,
                        cherry-laden, over the walls, and he had secretly feasted upon the fruit at
                        night. His stepmother, informed by the priest, whipped him. I wondered if I
                        could find that stone wall.
                    The train was now running through a very typical section of old-time Germany.
                        Solid, healthy men and buxom women got leisurely on and off at the various
                        small but well-built stations. You could feel distinctly a strong note of
                        commercial development here. Some small new factory buildings were visible
                        at one place and another. An occasional real-estate sign, after the American
                        fashion, was in evidence. The fields looked well and fully tilled. Hills
                        were always in the distance somewhere.
                    As the train pulled into one small station, Metternich by name, I saw a tall,
                        raw-boned yokel, lounging on the  platform. He
                        was a mere boy, nineteen or twenty, six feet tall, broad-shouldered,
                        horny-handed, and with as vacuous a face as it is possible for an individual
                        to possess. A cheap, wide-brimmed, soft hat, offensively new, and of a dusty
                        mud color, sat low over one ear; and around it, to my astonishment, was
                        twined a slim garland of flowers and leaves which, interwoven and chained,
                        hung ridiculously down his back. He was all alone, gazing sheepishly about
                        him and yet doing his best to wear his astounding honors with an air of
                        bravado. I was looking at his collarless shirt, his big feet and hands and
                        his bow legs, when I heard a German in the next seat remark to his neighbor,
                        "He won't look like that long."
                    "Three monthshe'll be fine."
                    They went on reading their papers and I fell to wondering what they could
                        mean.
                    At the next station were five more yokels, all similarly crowned, and around
                        them a bevy of rosy, healthy village girls. These five, constituting at once
                        a crowd and a center of attention, were somewhat more assuredmore
                        swaggeringthan the lone youth we had seen.
                    "What is that?" I asked the man over the seat.
                    "What are they doing?"
                    "They've been drawn for the army," he replied.
                        "All over Germany the young men are being drawn like
                        this."
                    "Do they begin to serve at once?"
                    "At once."
                    I paused in amazement at this trick of statecraft which could make of the
                        drawing for so difficult and compulsory a thing as service in the army a
                        gala occasion. For scarcely any compensationa few cents a daythese yokels
                        and village men are seized upon and made to do almost heroic duty for two
                        years, whether they will or  no. J did not
                        know then, quite, how intensely proud Germany is of her army, how perfectly
                        willing the vast majority are to serve, how certain the great majority of
                        Germans are that Germany is called of God to rulebeherrschen is their vigorous wordthe world. Before I was out of
                        Frankfort and Berlin, I could well realize how intensely proud the average
                        boy is to be drawn. He is really a man then; he is permitted to wear a
                        uniform and carry a gun; the citizens from then on, at least so long as he
                        is in service, respect him as a soldier. By good fortune or ability he may
                        become a petty officer. So they crown him with flowers, and the girls gather
                        round him in admiring groups. What a clever custom thus to sugar-coat the
                        compulsory pill. And, in a way, what a travesty.
                    The climax of my quest was reached when, after traveling all this distance
                        and finally reaching the "Mayen" on the railroad, I did
                        n't really reach it after all! It proved to be "West
                        Mayen"a new section of the old townor rather a new rival of itand
                        from West Mayen I had to walk to Mayen proper, or what might now be called
                        East Mayena distance of over a mile. I first shook my head in disgust, and
                        then laughed. For there, in the valley below me, after I had walked a little
                        way, I could actually see the town my father had described, a small walled
                        city of now perhaps seven or eight thousand population, with an old Gothic
                        church in the center containing a twisted spire, a true castle or Schloss of ancient date, on the high ground to the right,
                        a towered gate or two, of that medieval conical aspect so beloved of the
                        painters of romance, and a cluster or clutter of quaint, many-gabled,
                        sharp-roofed and sharp-pointed houses which speak invariably of days and
                        nations and emotions and tastes now almost entirely superseded. West Mayen
                        was being built in modern style.
                    
                    Some coal mines had been discovered there and manufactories were coming in.
                        At Mayen all was quite as my father left it, I am sure, some seventy years
                        before.
                    Those who think this world would be best if we could have peace and quiet
                        should visit Mayen. Here is a town that has existed in a more or less
                        peaceful state for all of six hundred years. The single Catholic church, the
                        largest structure outside of the adjacent castle, was begun in the twelfth
                        century. Frankish princes and Teuton lords have by turns occupied its site.
                        But Mayen has remained quite peacefully a small, German, walled city,
                        doingin part at leastmany of the things its ancestors did. Nowhere in
                        Europe, not even in Italy, did I feel more keenly the seeming
                        out-of-placeness of the modern implements of progress. When, after a pause
                        at the local graveyard, in search of ancestral Dreisers, I wandered down
                        into the town proper, crossed over the ancient stone bridge that gives into
                        an easily defended, towered gate, and saw the presence of such things as the
                        Singer Sewing Machine Company, a thoroughly up-to-date bookstore, an evening
                        newspaper office and a moving-picture show, I shook my head in real despair.
                        "Nothing is really old," I sighed,
                        "nothing!"
                    Like all the places that were highly individual and different, Mayen made a
                        deep impression on me. It was like entering the shell of some great mollusc
                        that had long since died, to enter this walled town and find it occupied by
                        another type of life from that which originally existed there. Because it
                        was raining now and soon to grow dark, I sauntered into the first shelter I
                        sawa four-story, rather presentable brick inn, located outside the gate
                        known as the Brckentor (bridgegate) and took a room here for the night. It
                        was a dull  affair, run by as absurd a
                        creature as I have ever encountered. He was a little man, sandy-haired,
                        woolwitted, inquisitive, idle, in a silly way drunken, who was so astonished
                        by the onslaught of a total stranger in this unexpected manner that he
                        scarcely knew how to conduct himself.
                    "I want a room for the night," I suggested.
                    "A roem?" he queried, in an astonished way, as if this were
                        the most unheard-of thing imaginable.
                    "Certainly," I said. "A room. You rent rooms,
                        don't you?"
                    "Oh, certainly, certainly. To be sure. A room. Certainly. Wait. I
                        will call my wife."
                    He went into a back chamber, leaving me to face several curious natives who
                        went over me from head to toe with their eyes.
                    "Mah-ree-ah!" I heard my landlord calling quite loudly in
                        the rear portion of the house. "There is one here who wants a room.
                        Have we a room ready?"
                    I heard no reply.
                    Presently he came back, however, and said in a highflown, deliberate way,.
                        "Be seated. Are you from Frankfort?"
                    "Yes, and no. I come from America."
                    "O-o-oh! America. What part of America?"
                    "New York."
                    "O-o-ohNew York. That is a great place. I have a brother in America.
                        Since six years now he is out there. I forget the place." He put
                        his hand to his foolish, frizzled head and looked at the floor.
                    His wife now appeared, a stout, dull woman, one of the hard-working potato
                        specimens of the race. A whispered conference between them followed, after
                        which they announced my room would soon be ready.
                    "Let me leave my bag here," I said, anxious to escape,  "and then I will come back later. I
                        want to look around for awhile."
                    He accepted this valid excuse and I departed, glad to get out into the rain
                        and the strange town, anxious to find a better-looking place to eat and to
                        see what I could see.
                    My search for dead or living Dreisers, which I have purposely skipped in
                        order to introduce the town, led me first, as I have said, to the local
                        graveyardthe old "Kirchhof." It was lowering to a rain as
                        I entered, and the clouds hung in rich black masses over the valley below.
                        It was half-after four by my watch. I made up my mind that I would examine
                        the inscription of every tombstone as quickly as possible, in order to
                        locate all the dead Dreisers, and then get down into the town before the
                        night and the rain fell, and locate the live onesif any. With that idea in
                        view I began at an upper row, near the church, to work down. Time was when
                        the mere wandering in a graveyard after this fashion would have produced the
                        profoundest melancholy in me. It was so in Paris; it made me morbidly weary
                        and ineffably sad. I saw too many great namesChopin, Balzac, Daudet,
                        Rachelsolemnly chiseled in stone. And I hurried out, finally, quite agonized
                        and unspeakably lonely.
                    Here in Mayen it was a simpler feeling that was gradually coming over mean
                        amused sentimental interest in the simple lives that had had, too often,
                        their beginning and their end in this little village. It was a lovely
                        afternoon for such a search. Spring was already here in South Germany, that
                        faint, tentative suggestion of budding life; all the wind-blown leaves of
                        the preceding fall were on the ground, but in between them new grass was
                        springing and, one might readily suspect, windflowers and crocuses, the
                        first faint green points of lilies and the pulsing tendrils of harebells. It
                        was beginning to sprinkle, the faintest 
                        suggestion of a light rain; and in the west, over the roofs and towers of
                        Mayen, a gleam of sunlight broke through the mass of heavy clouds and
                        touched the valley with one last lingering ray.
                    
                        "Hier ruhet in Gott" (Here rests in
                        God), or "Hier ruhet sanft" (Here softly
                        rests), was too often the beginning. I had made my way through the sixth or
                        seventh row from the top, pushing away grass at times from in front of faded
                        inscriptions, rubbing other lichencovered letters clean with a stick and
                        standing interested before recent tombstones, all smart with a very recently
                        developed local idea of setting a black piece of glass into the gray of the
                        marble and on that lettering the names of the departed in gold! It was to me
                        a very thick-witted, truly Teutonic idea, dull and heavy in its
                        mistakenness; but certainly it was no worse than the Italian idea of putting
                        the photograph of the late beloved in the head of the slab, behind glass, in
                        a stone-cut frame, and of further ornamenting the graves with ghastly
                        ironshafted lamps, with globes of yellow, pink and green glass. That was the
                        worst of all.
                    As I was meditating how, oysterlike, little villages reproduce themselves
                        from generation to generation, a few coming and a few going but the majority
                        leading a narrow simple round of existence, I came suddenly, so it seemed to
                        me, upon one grave which gave me a real shock. It was a comparatively recent
                        slab of gray granite with the modern plate of black glass set in it and a
                        Gothic cross surmounting it all at the top. On the glass plate was lettered:
                    
                        Here Rests Theodor Dreiser, Born 16Feb.1820.
                            Died 28Feb.1882. R.I. P.
                    
                    
                    I think as clear a notion as I ever had of how my grave will look after I am
                        gone and how utterly unimportant both life and death are, anyhow, came to me
                        then. Something about this old graveyard, the suggestion of the new life of
                        spring, a robin trilling its customary evening song on a near-by twig, the
                        smoke curling upward from the chimneys in the old houses below, the spire of
                        the medieval church and the walls of the medieval castle standing out in the
                        softening lightone or all of them served to give me a sense of the long past
                        that is back of every individual in the race of life and the long future
                        that the race has before it, regardless of the individual. Religion offers
                        no consolation to me. Psychic research and metaphysics, however meditated
                        upon, are in vain. There is in my judgment no death; the universe is
                        composed of life; but, nevertheless, I cannot see any continuous life for
                        any individual. And it would be so unimportant if true. Imagine an eternity
                        of life for a leaf, a fish-worm, an oyster! The best that can be said is
                        that ideas of types survive somewhere in the creative consciousness. That is
                        all. The rest is silence.
                    Besides this, there were the graves of my father's brother John, and
                        some other Dreisers; but none of them dated earlier than 1800.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XLV
                    MY FATHER'S BIRTHPLACE
                    
                        IT was quite dark when I finally came across a sort of
                        tap-room "restaurant" whose quaint atmosphere charmed me.
                        The usual pewter plates and tankards adorned the dull red and brown walls. A
                        line of leather-covered seats followed the walls, in front of which were
                        ranged long tables.
                    My arrival here with a quiet request for food put a sort of panic into the
                        breast of my small but stout host, who, when I came in, was playing checkers
                        with another middle-aged Mayener, but who, when I asked for food, gave over
                        his pleasure for the time being and bustled out to find his wife. He looked
                        not a little like a fat sparrow.
                    "Why, yes, yes," he remarked briskly, "what will
                        you have?"
                    "What can I have?"
                    On the instant he put his little fat hand to his semibald pate and rubbed it
                        ruminatively. "A steak, perhaps. Some veal? Some sausage?"
                    "I will have a steak if you don't mind, and a cup of black
                        coffee."
                    He bustled out and when he came back I threw a new bomb into camp.
                        "May I wash my hands?"
                    "Certainly, certainly," he replied, "in a
                        minute." And he bounded upstairs. "Katrina! Katrina!
                        Katrina!" I heard him call, "have Anna make the washroom
                        ready. He wishes to wash his hands. Where are the towels? Where is the soap?
                    There was much clattering of feet overhead. I heard a door being opened and
                        things being moved. Presently  I heard him
                        call, "Katrina, in God's name, where is the
                        soap!" More clattering of feet, and finally he came down, red and
                        puffing. "Now, mein Herr, you can go up."
                    I went, concealing a secret grin, and found that I had dislocated a
                        store-room, once a bath perhaps; that a babycarriage had been removed from a
                        table and on it pitcher, bowl, towel, and soap had been placeda small piece
                        of soap, and cold water. Finally, after seeing me served properly, he sat
                        down at his table again and sighed. The neighbor returned. Several more
                        citizens dropped in to read and chat. The two youngest boys in the family
                        came downstairs with their books to study. It was quite a typical German
                        family scene.
                    It was here that I made my first effort to learn something about the Dreiser
                        family. "Do you know any one by the name of Dreiser,
                        hereabouts?" I asked cautiously, afraid to talk too much for fear
                        of incriminating myself.
                    "Dreiser, Dreiser?" he said. "Is he in the
                        furniture business?"
                    "I don't know. That is what I should like to find out. Do
                        you know of any one by that name?"
                    "Is n't that the man, Henry,"he turned to one of
                        his guests"who failed here last year for fifty thousand
                        marks?"
                    "The same," said this other, solemnly (I fancied rather
                        feelingly)
                    "Goodness, gracious!" I thought. "This is the end.
                        If he failed for fifty thousand marks in Germany he is in disgrace. To think
                        a Dreiser should ever have had fifty thousand marks! Would that I had known
                        him in his palmy days."
                    "There was a John Dreiser here," my host said to me,
                        "who failed for fifty thousand marks. He is gone, though, now, I
                        think. I don't know where he is."
                    
                    It was not an auspicious beginning, and under the circumstances I thought it
                        as well not to identify myself with this Dreiser too closely. I finished my
                        meal and went out, wondering how, if at all, I was to secure any additional
                        information. The rain had ceased and the sky was already clearing. It
                        promised to be fine on the morrow. After more idle rambling through a world
                        that was quite as old as Canterbury I came back finally to my hotel. My host
                        was up and waiting for me. All but one guest had gone.
                    "So you are from America," he observed. "I would
                        like very much to talk with you some more."
                    "Let me ask you something," I replied.
                        "Do you know any one here in Mayen by the name of Dreiser?
                    "DreiserDreiser? It seems to me there was some one here. He failed
                        for a lot of money. You could find out at the Mayener
                        Zeitung. Mr. Schroeder ought to know."
                    I decided that I would appeal to Mr. Schroeder and his paper in the morning;
                        and pretending to be very tired, in order to escape my host, who by now was
                        a little tipsy, I went to the room assigned me, carrying a candle. That
                        night I slept soundly, under an immense, stuffy feather-bed.
                    The next morning at dawn I arose and was rewarded with the only truly
                        satisfying medieval prospect I have ever seen in my life. It was strange,
                        remote, Teutonic, Burgundian. The "grafs" and
                        "burghers" of an older world might well have been enacting
                        their life under my very eyes. Below me in a valley was Mayen,its quaint
                        towers and housetops spread out in the faint morning light. It was
                        beautiful. Under my window tumbled the little stream that had served as a
                        moat in earlier daysa good and natural defense. Opposite me was the massive
                        Brckentor. Further on was a heavy circular 
                        sweep of wall and a handsome watch-tower. Over the wall, rising up a slope,
                        could be seen the peak-roofed, gabled houses, of solid brick and stone with
                        slate and tile roofs. Never before in my life had I looked on a truly
                        medieval city of the castellated, Teutonic order. Nothing that I had seen in
                        either France, England, or Italy had the peculiar quality of this remote
                        spot. I escaped the importunities of my talkative host by a ruse, putting
                        the two marks charged for the room in an envelope and leaving it on the
                        dresser. I went out and followed the stream in the pleasant morning light. I
                        mailed post-cards at the local post-office to all and sundry, of my
                        relatives, stating the local condition of the Dreisers, as so far learned,
                        and then sought out the office of the Mayener Zeitung,
                        where I encountered one Herr Schroeder, but he could tell me nothing of any
                        Dreisers save of that unfortunate one who had failed in the furniture
                        business. He advised me to seek the curator of the local museum, a man who
                        had the history of Mayen at his finger-tips. He was a cabinet-maker by
                        trade. I could not find him at home and finally, after looking in the small
                        local directory published by Mr. Schroeder and finding no Dreisers listed, I
                        decided to give up and go back to Frankfort; but not without one last look
                        at the private yard attached to the priest's house and the
                        cherry-tree which had been the cause of the trouncing, and lastly the local
                        museum.
                    It is curious how the most innocent and idle of sentiments will lead a person
                        on in this way. In the little Brckentor Museum, before leaving, I studied
                        with the greatest interestbecause it was my father's townthe
                        ancient Celtic, Teutonic, Roman and Merovingian antiquities. It was here
                        that I saw for the first time the much-talked-of wheat discovered in a
                        Celtic funeral urn, which, although thousands of years have elapsed since it
                             was harvested, is stillthanks to dryness,
                        so the local savant assured mefertile, and if planted would grow! Talk of
                        suspended animation!
                    Below the town I lingered in the little valley of the Moselle, now laid out
                        as a park, and rexamined the gate through which my father had been wont to
                        ride. I think I sentimentalized a little over the long distance that had
                        separated my father from his old home and how he must have longed to see it
                        at times, and then finally, after walking about the church and school where
                        he had been forced to go, I left Mayen with a sorrowful backward glance. For
                        in spite of the fact that there was now no one there to whom I could count
                        myself related, still it was from here that my ancestors had come. I had
                        found at least the church that my father had attended, the priest's
                        house and garden where possibly the identical cherry-tree was still
                        standingthere were several. I had seen the gate through which my father had
                        ridden as a boy with the soldiers and from which he had walked finally,
                        never to return any more. That was enough. I shall always be glad I went to
                        Mayen.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XLVI
                    THE ARTISTIC TEMPERAMENT
                    
                        BEFORE leaving Frankfort I hurried to Cook's
                        office to look after my mail. I found awaiting me a special delivery letter
                        from a friend of Barfleur's, a certain famous pianist, Madame A.,
                        whom I had met in London. She had told me then that she was giving a recital
                        at Munich and Leipzig and that she was coming to Frankfort about this very
                        time. She was scheduled to play on Wednesday, and this was Monday. She was
                        anxious to see me. There was a long account of the town outside Berlin where
                        she resided, her house, its management by a capable housekeeper, etc. Would
                        I go there? I could have her room. If I did, would I wait until she could
                        come back at the latter end of the month? It was a most hospitable letter,
                        and, coming from such a busy woman, a most flattering one and evidently
                        instigated by Barfleur. I debated whether to accept this charming invitation
                        as I strolled about Frankfort.
                    At one corner of the shopping district I came upon a music store in the
                        window of which were displayed a number of photographs of musical
                        celebrities. A little to my surprise I noticed that the central place was
                        occupied by a large photograph of Madame A. in her most attractive pose. A
                        near-by bill-board contained full announcement of her coming. I meditated
                        somewhat more mellowly after this and finally returned to Cook's to
                        leave a telegram. I would wait, I said, here at Frankfort until Wednesday.
                    In due time Madame A. arrived and her recital, as  such things go, was a brilliant success. So far as I could
                        judge, she had an enthusiastic following in Frank-fort, quite as
                        significant, for instance, as a woman like Carreno would have in America. An
                        institution known as the Saalbau, containing a large auditorium, was
                        crowded, and there were flowers in plenty for Madame A. who opened and
                        closed the program. The latter arrangement resulted in an ovation to her,
                        men and women crowding about her feet below the platform and suggesting one
                        composition and another that she might playselections, obviously, that they
                        had heard her render before.
                    She looked forceful, really brilliant, and tender in a lavender silk gown and
                        wearing a spray of an enormous bouquet of lilacs that I had sent her.
                    This business of dancing attendance upon a national musical favorite was a
                        bit strange for me, although once before in my life it fell to my lot, and
                        tempestuous business it was, too. The artistic temperament! My hair rises!
                        Madame A. I knew, after I saw her, was expecting me to do the unexpectedto
                        give edge as it were to her presence in Frankfort. And so strolling out
                        before dinner I sought a florist's, and espying a whole jardinire
                        full of lilacs, I said to the woman florist, "How much for all
                        those lilacs?"
                    "You mean all?" she asked.
                    "All," I said.
                    "Thirty marks," she replied.
                    "Is n't that rather high?" I said, assuming that
                        it was wise to bargain a little anywhere.
                    "But this is very early spring," she said. "These
                        are the very first we 've had."
                    "Very good," I said, "but if I should take them
                        all would you put a nice ribbon on them?"
                    "O-o-oh!" she hesitated, almost pouting, "ribbon
                        is  very dear, my good sir. Stillif you wishit
                        will make a wonderful bouquet."
                    "Here is my card," I said, "put that in
                        it." And then I gave her the address and the hour. I wrote some
                        little nonsense on the card, about tender melodies and spring-time, and then
                        I went back to the hotel to at-tend Madame.
                    A more bustling, aggressive little artist you would not want to find. When I
                        called at eight-thirtythe recital was at nineI found several musical
                        satellites dancing attendance upon her. There was one beautiful little girl
                        from Mayence I noticed, of the Jewish type, who followed Madame A. with
                        positively adoring glances. There was another woman of thirty who was also
                        caught in the toils of this woman's personality and swept along by
                        her quite as one planet dislocates the orbit of another and makes it into a
                        satellite. She had come all the way from Berlin. "Oh, Madame
                        A.," she confided to me upon introduction, "oh, wonderful!
                        wonderful! Such playing! It is the most wonderful thing in the world to
                        me."
                    This woman had an attractive face, sallow and hollow, with burning black eyes
                        and rich black hair. Her body was long and thin, supple and graceful. She
                        followed Madame A. too, with those strange, questioning eyes. Life is surely
                        pathetic. It was interesting, though, to be in this atmosphere of intense
                        artistic enthusiasm.
                    When the last touch had been added to Madame's coiffure, a sprig of
                        blossom of some kind inserted in her corsage, a flowing opera cloak thrown
                        about the shoulders, she was finally ready. So busy was she, suggesting this
                        and that to one and another of her attendants, that she scarcely saw me.
                        "Oh, there you are," she beamed finally. "Now, I
                        am quite ready. Is the machine here,  Marie? Oh, very good. And Herr Steiger! O-o-oh!" This
                        last to a well-known violinist who had arrived.
                    It turned out that there were two machinesone for the satellites and Herr
                        Steiger who was also to play this evening, and one for Madame A., her maid
                        and myself. We finally debouched from the hall and elevator and fussy lobby,
                        where German officers were strolling to and fro, into the machines and were
                        away. Madame A. was lost in a haze of artistic contemplation with thoughts,
                        no doubt, as to her program and her success. "Now maybe you will
                        like my program better," she suggested after a while. "In
                        London it was not so goot. I haf to feel my audience isshow do you say?vith
                        me. In Berlin and here and Dresden and Leipzig they like me. In England they
                        do not know me." She sighed and looked out of the window.
                        "Are you happy to be with me?" she asked navely.
                    "Quite," I replied.
                    When we reached the auditorium we were ushered by winding passages into a
                        very large green-room, a salon, as it were, where the various artists
                        awaited their call to appear. It was already occupied by a half-dozen
                        persons, or more, the friends of Madame A., the local manager, his hair
                        brushed aloft like a cockatoo, several musicians, the violinist Herr
                        Steiger, Godowsky the pianist, and one or two others. They all greeted
                        Madame A. effusively.
                    There was some conversation in French here and there, and now and then in
                        English. The room was fairly babbling with temperament. It is always amusing
                        to hear a group of artists talk. They are so fickle, make-believe,
                        innocently treacherous, jealous, vainglorious, flattering. "Oh,
                        yeshow splendid he was. That aria in C Majorperfect! But you know I did not
                        care so much for his rendering of the Pastoral Symphonyvery  weak in the allegro ma non
                            troppovery. He should not attempt that. It is not in his veinnot
                        the thing he does best"fingers lifted very suggestively and
                        warningly in the air.
                    Some artist and his wife did not agree (very surprising); the gentleman was
                        the weaker instrument in this case.
                    "Oh!"it was Madame A. talking, "now that is too-oo
                        ridiculous. She must go places and he must go along as manager! Herr Spink
                        wrote me from Hamburg that he would not have him around. She has told him
                        that he affects her playing. Still he goes! It is too-oo much. They will not
                        live together long."
                    "Where is Herr Schochman?" (This being incident number
                        three.) "Is n't he leading to-night? But they promised me!
                        No, I will not play then! It is always the way. I know him well! I know why
                        he does it! It is to annoy me. He does n't like me and he
                        disappoints me."
                    Great business of soothing the principal performer of the eveningthe manager
                        explaining volubly, friends offering soothing comment. More talk about other
                        artists, their wives, flirtations, successes, failures.
                    In the midst of this, by some miscalculation (they were to have been
                        delivered over the footlights after the end of Madame A.'s first
                        number) in came my flowers. They looked like a fair-sized bush being
                        introduced.
                    "Oh!" exclaimed Madame A. when the card was examined and
                        they were offered to her, "how heavenly. Good heavens! it is a
                        whole tree. Ohwonderful, wonderful! And these be-yutiful words!
                        O-o-oh!"
                    More coquettish glances and tender sighs. I could have choked with amusement.
                        It was all such delicious by-playquite the thing that artists expect and
                        must have. She threw away the sprig of jasmine she wore  and drawing out a few sprigs of the lilac wore those instead.
                        "Now I can play," she exclaimed.
                    Deep breathings, sighs, ecstatic expressions.
                    Her turn came and, as I expected after hearing her in London, I heard
                        delicious music. She had her following. They applauded her to the echo. Her
                        two female satellites sat with me, and little Miss Meyer of Mayenceas I will
                        call herfairly groaned with happiness at times. Truly Madame A. was good to
                        look upon, quite queenly, very assured. At the end of it all a fifteen- or
                        twenty-minute ovation. It was beautiful, truly.
                    While we were in the green-room talking between sections of the program and
                        intermediate soloists, I said to her, "You are coming with me to
                        supper, of course."
                    "Of course! What else did you expect?"
                    "Are there any other restaurants besides those of the Frankforter
                        Hof?"
                    "I think not."
                    "How will you get rid of your friends after the
                        performance?"
                    "Oh, I shall send them away. You take a table any-where you like and
                        I will come. Make it twelve o'clock."
                    We were bundled back to the hotel, flowers, wraps, maid, satellites, and I
                        went to see about the supper. In fifteen minutes it was ready; and in twenty
                        minutes more Madame A. came, quite rosy, all awake temperament-ally,
                        inquisitive, defensive, coquettish, eager. We are all greedy animals at
                        bestthe finer the greedier. The whole world is looking to see what life will
                        give it to eatfrom ideas, emotions, enthusiasms down to grass and potatoes.
                        We are organized appetites, magnificent, dramatic, pathetic at times, but
                        appetites just the same. The greater the appetite the more magnificent the
                        spectacle.  Satiety is deadly discouraging.
                        The human stomach is the grand central organlife in all its amazing, subtle,
                        heavenly, pathetic ramifications has been built up around that. The most
                        pathetic thing in life is a hungry man; the most stirringly disturbing
                        thing, a triumphant, greedy one. Madame A. sat down to our cold chicken,
                        salad, champagne, and coffee with beaming birdlike eyes.
                    "Oh, it is so good to see you again!" she declared; but her
                        eyes were on the chicken. "I was so afraid when I wrote you from
                        Munich that you would not get my letter. I can't tell you how you
                        appeal to me; we have only met twice, yet you see we are quite old friends
                        already!"
                    Just as her none too subtle flattery was beginning to work, she remarked
                        casually, "Do you know Mr. Barfleur well?"
                    "Oh, fairly well. Yes, I know a little something about
                        him."
                    "You like him, don't you?"
                    "I am very fond of him," I answered, my vanity deflating
                        rapidly.
                    "He is so fond of you," she assured me. "Oh, he
                        admires you so much. What you think must have considerable weight with him,
                        ell? Where did you first meet him?" she asked.
                    "In New York."
                    "Now, between us: he is one of the few men in the world I deeply
                        care forbut I don't think he cares for me."
                    "Good Lord!" I said to myself wearily, "why is it
                        that all the charming ladies I meet either are or have been in love with
                        Barfleur. It 's getting monotonous!" But I had to smile.
                    "You will visit me in Berlin?" she was saying. "I
                             will be back by the twenty-sixth.
                        Can't you wait that long? Berlin is so interesting. When I come, we
                        shall have such nice talks!"
                    "Yesabout Barfleur!" I thought to myself. Aloud I said
                        vaguely, "It is charming of you; I will stop over to see you, if I
                        possibly can." Then I said good night and left.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XLVII
                    BERLIN
                    
                        BERLIN, when I reached it, first manifested itself in a
                        driving rain. I f I laugh at it forever and ever as a blunder-headed,
                        vainglorious, self-appreciative city I shall always love it too. Paris has
                        had its day, and will no doubt have others; London is content with an
                        endless, conservative day; Berlin's is still to come and come
                        brilliantly. The blood is there, and the hope, and the moody, lustful,
                        Wagnerian temperament.
                    But first, before I reached it, I suffered a strange mental revolt at being
                        in Germany at all. Why? I can scarcely say. Perhaps I was beginning to be
                        depressed with what in my prejudice I called the dullness of Germany. A
                        little while later I recognized that while there is an extreme conflict of
                        temperament between the average German and myself, I could yet admire them
                        without wishing to be anything like them. Of all the peoples I saw I should
                        place the Germans first for sobriety, industry, thoroughness, a hearty
                        intolerance of sham, a desire and a willingness to make the best of a very
                        difficult earthly condition. In many respects they are not artistically
                        appetizing, being gross physically, heartily passionate, vain, and cocksure;
                        but those things after all are unimportant. They have, in spite of all their
                        defects, great emotional, intellectual, and physical capacities, and these
                        things are important. I think it is unquestionable that in
                        the main they take life far too seriously. The belief in a hell, for
                        instance, took a tremendous grip on the Teutonic mind and the Lutheran
                        interpretation of Protestantism, as it finally worked out, was as dreary as
                        anything  could bealmost as dreary as
                        Presbyterianism in Scotland. That is the sad German temperament. A great
                        nationality, business success, public distinction is probably tending to
                        make over or at least modify the Teutonic cast of thought which is gray; but
                        in parts of Germany, for instance at Mayence, you see the older spirit
                        almost in full force.
                    In the next place I was out of Italy and that land had taken such a strange
                        hold on me. What a far cry from Italy to Germany! I thought. Gone; once and
                        for all, the wonderful clarity of atmosphere that pervades almost the whole
                        of Italy from the Alps to Rome and I presume Sicily. Gone the obvious dolce far niente, the lovely cities set on hills, the
                        castles, the fortresses, the strange stone bridges, the hot, white roads
                        winding like snowy ribbons in the distance. No olive trees, no cypresses, no
                        umbrella trees or ilexes, no white, yellow, blue, brown and sea-green
                        houses, no wooden plows, white oxen and ambling, bare-footed friars. In its
                        place (the Alps and Switzerland between) this low rich land, its railroads
                        threading it like steel bands, its citizens standing up as though at
                        command, its houses in the smaller towns al-most uniformly red, its
                        architecture a twentieth century modification of an older order of
                        many-gabled roofsthe order of Albrecht Drerwith its fanciful decorations,
                        conical roofs and pinnacles and quaint windows and doors that suggest the
                        bird-boxes of our childhood. Germany appears in a way to have attempted to
                        abandon the medieval architectural ideal that still may be seen in Mayence,
                        Mayen, the heart of Frankfort, Nuremberg, Heidelberg and other places and to
                        adapt its mood to the modern theory of how buildings ought to be
                        constructed, but it has not quite clone so. The German scroll-loving mind of
                        the Middle Ages is still the German scroll-loving mind of to-day. Look and
                        you will see it quaintly cropping  out
                        everywhere. Not in those wonderful details of intricacy, Teutonic fussiness,
                        naive, jester-like grotesqueness which makes the older sections of so many
                        old German cities so wonderful, but in a slight suggestion of them here and
                        therea quirk of roof, an over-elaborateness of decoration, a too protuberant
                        frieze or grapeviney, Bacchus-mooded, sex-ornamented panel, until you say to
                        yourself quite wisely, "Ah, Teutons will be Teutons
                        still." They are making a very different Germany from what the old
                        Germany wasmodern Germany dating from 1871but it is not an entirely
                        different Germany. Its citizens are still stocky, red-blooded, physically
                        excited and excitable, emotional, mercurial, morbid, enthusiastic,
                        women-loving and life-loving, and no doubt will be so, praise God, until
                        German soil loses its inherent essentials, and German climate makes for some
                        other variations not yet indicated in the race.
                    But to return to Berlin. I saw it first jogging down Unter den Linden from
                        the Friedrichstrasse Bahnhof (station) to Cook's Berlin agency,
                        seated comfortably in a dosed cab behind as fat a horse and driver as one
                        would wish to see. And from there, still farther along Unter den Linden and
                        through the Wilhelmstrasse to Leipzigstrasse and the Potsdamer Bahnhof I saw
                        more of it. Oh, the rich guttural value of the German
                        "platzes" and "strasses" and
                        "ufers" and "dams." They make up a
                        considerable portion of your city atmosphere for you in Berlin. You just
                        have to get used to themjust as you have to accept the
                        "fabriks" and the "restaurations" and
                        the "wein handlungs," and all the other
                        "ichs," "lings,"
                        "bergs," "brckes," until you sigh for
                        the French and Italian "-rics" and the English-American
                        "-rys." However, among the first things that impressed me
                        were these: all Berlin streets, seemingly, were wide with buildings rarely
                        more than five stories high. Everything, 
                        
                            A German dance hall, Berlin
                        
                        
                         literally everything, was
                        American newand newerGerman new! And the cabbies were the largest, fattest,
                        most broad-backed, most thick-through and Deutschiest
                        looking creatures I have ever beheld. Oh, the marvel of those glazed German
                        cabby hats with the little hard rubber decorations on the side. Nowhere else
                        in Europe is there anything like these cabbies. They do not stand; they sit,
                        heavily and spaciouslyalone.
                    The faithful Baedeker has little to say for Berlin. Art? It is almost all in
                        the Kaiser-Friedrich-Museum, in the vicinity of the Kupferdam. And as for
                        public institutions, spots of great historic interestthey are a dreary and
                        negligible list. But, nevertheless and not-withstanding, Berlin appealed to
                        me instantly as one of the most interesting and forceful of all the cities,
                        and that solely because it is new, crude, human, growing feverishly,
                        unbelievably; and growing in a distinct and individual way. They have
                        achieved and are achieving something totally distinct and worth whilea new
                        place to go; and after a while, I have n't the slightest doubt,
                        thousands and even hundreds of thousands of travelers will go there. But for
                        many and many a day the sensitive and artistically inclined will not admire
                        it.
                    My visit to Cook's brought me a mass of delayed mail which cheered
                        me greatly. It was now raining pitch-forks but my bovine driver, who looked
                        somehow like a segment of a wall, managed to bestow my trunk and bags in
                        such a fashion that they were kept dry, and off we went for the hotel. I had
                        a preconceived notion that Unter den Linden was a magnificent avenue lined
                        shadily with trees and crowded with palaces. Nothing could have been more
                        erroneous. The trees are few and insignificant, the palaces entirely
                        wanting. It is a very wide business street, lined with hotels, shops,
                        restaurants, newspaper offices and filled with a parading  throng in pleasant weather. At one end it
                        gives into an area known as the Lustgarten crowded with palaces, art
                        galleries, the Berlin Cathedral, the Imperial Opera House and what not; at
                        the other end (it is only about a mile long) into the famous Berlin
                        Thiergarten, formerly a part of the Imperial (Hohenzollern) hunting-forest.
                        On the whole, the avenue was a disappointment.
                    For suggestions of character, individuality, innate Teutonic charm or the
                        reverseas these things strike onegrowth, prosperity, promise, and the like,
                        Berlin cannot be equaled in Europe. Quite readily I can see how it might
                        irritate and repel the less aggressive denizens of less hopeful and
                        determined realms. The German, when he is oppressed is terribly depressed;
                        when he is in the saddle, nothing can equal his bump of I-amity. It becomes
                        so balloon-like and astounding that the world may only gaze in astonishment
                        or retreat in anger, dismay, or uproarious amusement. The present-day
                        Germans do take themselves so seriously and from many points of view with
                        good reason, too.
                    I don't know where in Europe, outside of Paris, if even there, you
                        will see a better-kept city. It is so clean and spruce and fresh that it is
                        a joy to walk thereanywhere. Mile after mile of straight, imposing streets
                        greet your gaze. Berlin needs a great Pantheon, an avenue such as Unter den
                        Linden lined with official palaces (not shops), and unquestionably a
                        magnificent museum of artI mean a better building. Its present public and
                        imperial structures are most uninspired. They suggest the American-European
                        architecture of 1860-1870. The public monuments of Berlin, and particularly
                        their sculptural adornments are for the most part a crime against humanity.
                    I remember standing and looking one evening at that noble German effort known
                        as the memorial statue of  William I, in the
                        Lustgarten, unquestionably the fiercest and most imposing of all the Berlin
                        military sculptures. This statue speaks loudly for all Berlin and for all
                        Germany and for just what the Teutonic disposition would like to benamely,
                        terrible, colossal, astounding, world-scarifying, and the like. It almost
                        shouts "Ho! see what I am,"but the sad part of it is that
                        it does it badly, not with that reserve that somehow invariably indicates
                        tremendous power so much better than mere bluster does. What the Germans
                        seem not to have learned in their art at least is that "easy does
                        it." Their art is anything but easy. It is almost invariably showy,
                        truculent, vainglorious. But to continue: The whole neighborhood in which
                        this statue occurs, and the other neighborhood at the other end of Unter den
                        Linden, where stands the Reichstag and the like, all in the center of
                        Berlin, as it were, is conceived, designed, and executed (in my judgment) in
                        the same mistaken spirit. Truly, when you look about you at the cathedral
                        (save the mark) or the Royal Palace in the Lustgarten, or at the Winged
                        Victory before the Reichstag or at the Reichstag itself, and the statue of
                        Bismarck in the Knigs-Platz (the two great imperial centers), you sigh for
                        the artistic spirit of Italy. But no words can do justice to the folly of
                        spending three million dollars to erect such a thing as this Berlin Dom or cathedral. It is so bad that it hurts. And I am
                        told that the Kaiser himself sanctioned some of the architectural designs.
                        And it was only completed between 1894 and 1906. Shades of Brabante and
                        Pisano!
                    But if I seem disgusted with this section of Berlinits evidence of Empire, as
                        it werethere was much more that truly charmed me. Wherever I wandered I
                        could perceive through all the pulsing life of this busy  city the thoroughgoing German temperamentits
                        moody poverty, its phlegmatic middle-class prosperity, its aggressive
                        commercial, financial, and, above all, its official and imperial life.
                        Berlin is shot through with the constant suggestion of officialism and
                        imperialism. The German policeman with his shining brass helmet and brass
                        belt; the Berlin sentry in his long military gray overcoat, his musket over
                        his shoulder, his high cap shading his eyes, his black-and-white striped
                        sentry-box behind him, stationed apparently at every really important corner
                        and before every official palace; the German military and imperial
                        automobiles speeding their independent ways, all traffic cleared away before
                        them, the small flag of officialdom or imperialism fluttering defiantly from
                        the foot-rails as they flash at express speed past you;these things suggest
                        an individuality which no other European city that I saw quite equaled. It
                        represented what I would call determination, self-sufficiency, pride. Berlin
                        is new, green, vigorous, astoundinga city that for speed of growth puts
                        Chicago entirely into the shade; that for appearance, cleanliness, order,
                        for military precision and thoroughness has no counterpart anywhere. It
                        suggests to you all the time, something very much greater to come which is
                        the most interesting thing that can be said about any city, anywhere.
                    One panegyric I should like to write on Berlin concerns not so much its
                        social organization as a city, though that is interesting enough, but
                        specifically its traffic and travel arrangements. To be sure it is not yet
                        such a city as either New York, London or Paris, but it has over three
                        million people, a crowded business heart and a heavy, daily,
                        to-and-fro-swinging tide of suburban traffic. There are a number of railway
                        stations in the great German capital, the Potsdamer Bahnhof,  the Friedrichstrasse Bahnhof, the Anhalter
                        Bahnhof and so on, and coming from each in the early hours of the morning,
                        or pouring toward them at evening are the same eager streams of people that
                        one meets in New York at similar hours.
                    The Germans are amazingly like the Americans. Sometimes I think that we get
                        the better portion of our progressive, constructive characteristics from
                        them. Only, the Germans, I am convinced, are so much more thorough. They go
                        us one better in economy, energy, endurance, and thoroughness. The American
                        already is beginning to want to play too much. The Germans have not reached
                        that stage.
                    The railway stations I found were excellent, with great switching-yards and
                        enormous sheds arched with glass and steel, where the trains waited. In
                        Berlin I admired the suburban train service as much as I did that of London,
                        if not more. That in Paris was atrocious. Here the trains offered a choice
                        of first, second, and third class, with the vast majority using the second
                        and third. I saw little difference in the crowds occupying either class. The
                        second-class compartments were upholstered in a greyish-brown corduroy. The
                        third-class seats were of plain wood, varnished and scrupulously clean. I
                        tried all three classes and finally fixed on the third as good enough for
                        me.
                    I wish all Americans who at present suffer the indignities of the American
                        street-railway and steam-railway suburban service could go to Berlin and see
                        what that city has to teach them in this respect. Berlin is much larger than
                        Chicago. It is certain soon to be a city of five or six millions of
                        peoplevery soon. The plans for handling this mass of people comfortably and
                        courteously are already in operation. The German public service is obviously
                        not left to supposedly kindly  minded business
                        gentlemen "Christian gentlemen," as Mr. Baer of the
                        Reading once chose to put it, "in partnership with God.
                        "The populace may be underlings to an imperial Kaiser, subject to
                        conscription and eternal inspection, but at least the money-making
                        "Christian gentlemen" with their hearts and souls centered
                        on their private purses and working, as Mr. Croker once said 'of
                        himself, "for their own pockets all the time, "are not
                        allowed to "take it out of "the rank and file.
                    No doubt the German street-railways and steam-railways are making a
                        reasonable sum of money and are eager to make more. I have n't the
                        least doubt but that heavy, self-opinionated, vainglorious German directors
                        of great wealth gather around mahogany tables in chambers, devoted to
                        meetings of directors and listen to ways and means of cutting down expenses
                        and "improving "the service. Beyond the shadow of a doubt
                        there are hard, hired managers, eager to win the confidence and support of
                        their superiors and ready to feather their own nests at the expense of the
                        masses, who would gladly cut down the service, "pack 'em
                        in," introduce the "cutting out" system of car
                        service and see that the "car ahead" idea was worked to
                        the last maddening extreme; but in Germany, for some strange, amazing
                        reason, they don't get a chance. What is the matter with Germany,
                        anyhow? I should like to know. Really I would. Why is n't the
                        "Christian gentleman" theory of business introduced there?
                        The population of Germany, acre for acre and mile for mile, is much larger
                        than that of America. They have sixty-five million people crowded into an
                        area as big as Texas. Why don't they "pack 'em
                        in"? Why don't they introduce the American
                        "sardine" subway service? You don't find it
                        anywhere in Germany, for some strange reason. 
                        Why? They have a subway service in Berlin. It serves vast masses of people,
                        just as the subway does in New York; its platforms are crowded with people.
                        But you can get a seat just the same. There is no vociferated "step
                        lively" there. Overcrowding is n't a joke over there as it
                        is heresomething to be endured with a feeble smile until you are spiritually
                        comparable to a door mat. There must be "Christian
                        gentlemen" of wealth and refinement in Germany and Berlin. Why
                        don't they "get on the job"? The thought arouses
                        strange uncertain feelings in me.
                    Take, for instance, the simple matter of starting and stopping street-railway
                        cars in the Berlin business heart. In so far as I could see, that area,
                        mornings and evenings, was as crowded as any similar area in Paris, London,
                        or New York. Street-cars have to be run through it, started, stopped;
                        passengers let on and offa vast tide carried in and out of the city. Now the
                        way this matter is worked in New York is quite ingenious. We operate what
                        might be described as a daily guessing contest intended to develop the wits,
                        muscles, lungs, and tempers of the people. The scheme, in so far as the
                        street railway companies are concerned, is (after running the roads as
                        economically as possible) to see how thoroughly the people can be fooled in
                        their efforts to discover when and where a car will stop. In Berlin,
                        however, they have, for some reason, an entirely different idea. There the
                        idea is not to fool the people at all but to get them in and out of the city
                        as quickly as possible. So, as in Paris, London, Rome, and elsewhere, a plan
                        of fixed stopping-places has been arranged. Signs actually indicate where
                        the cars stop and theremarvel of marvelsthey all stop even in the so-called
                        rush hours. No traffic policeman, apparently, can order them to go ahead
                        without stopping. They must stop. And so the 
                        people do not run for the cars, the motorman has no joy in outwitting
                        anybody. Perhaps that is why the Germans are neither so agile, quick-witted,
                        or subtle as the Americans.
                    And then, take in additionif you will bear with me another momentthis matter
                        of the Berlin suburban service as illustrated by the lines to Potsdam and
                        elsewhere. It is true the officers, and even the Emperor of Germany, living
                        at Potsdam and serving the Imperial German Government there may occasionally
                        use this line, but thousands upon thousands of intermediate and plebeian
                        Germans use it also. You can always get a seat. Please
                        notice this word always. There are three classes and you
                        can always get a seat in any classnot the first or second classes only, but
                        the third class and particularly the third class. There are
                        "rush" hours in Berlin just as there are in New York, dear
                        reader. People swarm into the Berlin railway stations and at Berlin
                        street-railway corners and crowd on cars just as they do here. The lines
                        fairly seethe with cars. On the tracks ranged in the Potsdamer Bahnhof, for
                        instance, during the rush hours, you will see trains consisting of eleven,
                        twelve, and thirteen cars, mostly third-class accommodation, waiting to
                        receive you. And when one is gone, another and an equally large train is
                        there on the adjoining track and it is going to leave in another minute or
                        two also. And when that is gone there will be another, and so it goes. There
                        is not the slightest desire evident anywhere to "pack"
                        anybody in. There is n't any evidence that anybody wants to make
                        anything (dividends, for instance) out of straps. There are no straps. These poor, unliberated, Kaiser-ruled people would
                        really object to straps and standing in the aisles. They would compel a
                        decent service and there would be no loud cries on the part of  "Christian gentlemen"
                        operating large and profitable systems as to the "rights of
                        property," the need of " conserving the
                        constitution," the privilege of appealing to Federal judges, and
                        the right of having every legal technicality invoked to the letter;or, if
                        there were, they would get scant attention. Germany just does n't
                        see public service in that light. It has n't fought, bled, and
                        died, perhaps, for "liberty." It has n't had
                        George Washington and Thomas Jefferson and Andrew Jackson and Abraham
                        Lincoln. All it has had is Frederick the Great and Emperor William I and
                        Bismarck and Von Moltke. Strange, is n't it? Queer, how Imperialism
                        apparently teaches people to be civil, while Democracy does the reverse. We
                        ought to get a little "Imperialism" into our government, I
                        should say. We ought to make American law and American government supreme,
                        but over it there ought to be a "supremer" people who
                        really know what their rights are, who respect liberties, decencies, and
                        courtesies for themselves and others, and who demand and see that their
                        government and their law and their servants, public and private, are
                        responsive and responsible to them, rather than to the "Christian
                        gentlemen" who want to "pack 'em in." If
                        you don't believe it, go to Berlin and then see if you come home
                        again cheerfully believing that this is still the land of the free and the home of the brave. Rather I think
                        you will begin to feel that we are getting to be the land of the dub and the home of the door-mat.
                        Nothing more and nothing less.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XLVIII
                    THE NIGHT-LIFE OF BERLIN
                    
                        DURING the first ten days I saw considerable of German
                        night-life, in company with Herr A., a stalwart Prussian who went out of his
                        way to be nice to me. I cannot say that, after Paris and Monte Carlo, I was
                        greatly impressed, although all that I saw in Berlin had this advantage,
                        that it bore sharply the imprint of German nationality. The cafs were not
                        especially noteworthy. I do not know what I can say about any of them which
                        will indicate their individuality. "Piccadilly" was a
                        great evening drinking-place near the Potsdamer Platz, which was all glass,
                        gold, marble, glittering with lights and packed with the Germans, en famine, and young men and their girls.
                    "La Clou" was radically different. In a way it was an
                        amazing place, catering to the moderately prosperous middle class. It
                        seated, I should say, easily fifteen hundred people, if not more, on the
                        ground floor; and every table, in the evening at least, Was full. At either
                        end of the great center aisle bisecting it was stationed a stringed
                        orchestra and when one ceased the other immediately began, so that there was
                        music without interruption. Father and mother and young Lena, the little
                        Heine, and the two oldest girls or boys were all here. During the evening,
                        up one aisle and down an-other, there walked a constant procession of boys
                        and girls and young men and young women, making shy, conservative eyes at
                        one another.
                    In Berlin every one drinks beer or the lighter wines the children being
                        present and no harm seems to come  from it. I
                        presume drunkenness is not on the increase in Germany. And in Paris they sit
                        at tables in front of cafes men and womenand sip their liqueurs. It is a
                        very pleasant way to enjoy your leisure. Outside of trade or the desire to
                        be president, vice-president, or secretary of something, we in America have so often no real
                        diversions.
                    In no sense could either of these restaurants be said to be smart. But
                        Berlin, outside of one or two selected spots, does not run to smartness. The
                        "Cabaret Lin-den" and the "Cabaret
                        Arcadia" were, once more, of a different character. There was one
                        woman at the Cabaret Linden who struck me as having real artistic talent of
                        a strongly Teutonic variety. Claire Waldoff was her name, a hard,
                        shock-headed tomboy of a girl, who sang in a harsh, guttural voice of
                        soldiers, merchants, janitors, and policemen a really brilliant presentation
                        of local German characteristics. It is curious how these little touches of
                        character drawn from every-day life invariably win thunders of applause. How
                        the world loves the homely, the simple, the odd, the silly, the essentially
                        true! Unlike the others at this place, there was not a suggestive thing
                        about anything which this woman said or did; yet this noisy, driveling
                        audience could not get enough of her. She was truly an artist.
                    One night we went to the Palais de Danse, admittedly Berlin's
                        greatest night-life achievement. For several days Herr A. had been saying:
                        "Now tomorrow we must go to the Palais de Danse, then you will see
                        something," but every evening when we started out, something else
                        had intervened. I was a little skeptical of his enthusiastic praise of this
                        institution as being bet-ter than anything else of its kind in Europe. You
                        had to take Herr A.'s vigorous Teutonic estimate of Berlin  with a grain of salt, though I did think that
                        a city that had put itself together in this wonderful way in not much more
                        than a half-century had certainly considerable reason to boast.
                    "But what about the Caf de Paris at Monte Carlo?" I
                        suggested, remembering vividly the beauty and glitter of the place.
                    "No, no, no!" he exclaimed, with great emphasis he had a
                        habit of unconsciously making a fist when he was emphatic "not in
                        Monte Carlo, not in Paris, not anywhere."
                    "Very good," I replied, "this must be very fine.
                        Lead on."
                    So we went.
                    I think Herr A. was pleased to note how much of my skepticism melted after
                        passing the sedate exterior of this astounding place.
                    "I want to tell you something," said Herr A. as we climbed
                        out of our taxi a good, solid, reasonably priced, Berlin taxi "if
                        you come with your wife, your daughter, or your sister you buy a ticket for
                        yourself four marks and walk in. Nothing is charged for your female
                        companions and no notice is taken of them. If you come here with a
                        demi-mondaine, you pay four marks for yourself and four for her, and you
                        cannot get in without. They know. They have men at the door who are experts
                        in this matter. They want you to bring such women, but you have to pay. If
                        such a woman comes alone, she goes in free. How 's that?"
                    Once inside we surveyed a brilliant spectacle far more ornate than the Caf
                        l'Abbaye or the Caf Maxim, though by no means so enticing. Paris is
                        Paris and Berlin is Berlin and the Germans cannot do as do the French. They
                        have n't the airthe temperament. Everywhere in Germany you feel
                        that that strange  solidity of soul which
                        cannot be gay as the French are gay. Nevertheless the scene inside was
                        brilliant. Brilliant was the word. I would not have believed, until I saw
                        it, that the German temperament or the German sense of thrift would have
                        permitted it and yet after seeing the marvelous German officer, why not?
                    The main chamber very large consisted of a small, central, highly polished
                        dancing floor, canopied far above by a circular dome of colored glass,
                        glittering white or peach-pink by turns, and surrounded on all sides by an
                        elevated platform or floor, two or three feet above it, crowded with tables
                        ranged in circles on ascending steps, so that all might see. Beyond the
                        tables again was a wide, level, semi-circular promenade, flanked by ornate
                        walls and divans and set with palms, marbles and intricate gilt curio cases.
                        The general effect was one of intense light, pale, diaphanous silks of
                        creams and lemon hues, white-and-gold walls, white tables, a perfect glitter
                        of glass mirrors, and picturesque paneling. Beyond the dancing-floor was a
                        giant, gold-tinted, rococo organ, and within a recess in this, under the
                        tinted pipes, a stringed orchestra. The place was crowded with women of the
                        half-world, for the most part Germans unusually slender, in the majority of
                        cases delicately featured, as the best of these women are, and beautifully
                        dressed. I say beautifully. Qualify it any way you want to. Put it
                        dazzlingly, ravishingly, showily, outrageously any way you choose. No
                        respectable woman might come so garbed. Many of these women were
                        unbelievably attractive, carried themselves with a grand air, pea-fowl wise,
                        and lent an atmosphere of color and life of a very showy kind. The place was
                        also crowded, I need not add, with young men in evening clothes. Only
                        champagne was served to drink champagne at twenty marks the bottle.
                        Champagne at  twenty marks the bottle in
                        Berlin is high. You can get a fine suit of clothes for seventy or eighty
                        marks.
                    The principal diversions here were dining, dancing, drinking. As at Monte
                        Carlo and in Paris, you saw here that peculiarly suggestive dancing of the
                        habitues and the more skilled performances of those especially hired for the
                        occasion. The Spanish and Russian dancers, as in Paris, the Turkish and
                        Tyrolese specimens, gathered from Heaven knows where, were here. There were
                        a number of handsome young officers present who occasionally danced with the
                        women they were escorting. When the dancing began the lights in the dome
                        turned pink. When it ceased, the lights in the dome were a glittering white.
                        The place is, I fancy, a rather quick development for Berlin. We drarik
                        champagne, waved away charmers, and finally left, at two or three
                        o'clock, when the law apparently compelled the closing of this
                        great central chamber; though after that hour all the patrons who desired
                        might adjourn to an inner sanctum, quite as large, not so showy, but full of
                        brilliant, strolling, (lining, drinking life where, I was informed, one
                        could stay till eight in the morning if one chose. There was some
                        drunkenness here, but not much, and an air of heavy gaiety. I left thinking
                        to myself, "Once is enough for a place like this."
                    I went one clay to Potsdam and saw the Imperial Palace and grounds and the
                        Royal Parade. The Emperor had just left for Venice. As a seat of royalty it
                        did not interest me at all. It was a mere imitation of the grounds and
                        palace at Versailles, but as a river valley it was excellent. Very dull,
                        indeed, were the state apartments. I tried to be interested in the glass
                        ball-rooms, picture galleries, royal auditoriums and the like. But alas! The
                        servitors, by the way, were just as anxious for tips as any American
                        waiters. Potsdam did  not impress me. From
                        there I went to Grunewald and strolled in the wonderful forest for an
                        enchanted three hours. That was worth while.
                    The rivers of every city have their individuality and to me the Spree and its
                        canals seem eminently suited to Berlin. The water effects and they are
                        always artistically important and charming are plentiful.
                    The most pleasing portions of Berlin to me were those which related to the
                        branches of the Spree its canals and the lakes about it. Always there were
                        wild ducks flying over the housetops, over offices and factories; ducks
                        passing from one bit of water to another, their long necks protruding before
                        them, their metallic colors gleaming in the sun.
                    You see quaint things in Berlin, such as you will not see elsewhere the
                        Spreewald nurses, for instance, in the Thiergarten with their short,
                        scarlet, balloon skirt emphasized by a white apron, their triangular white
                        linen head-dress, very conspicuous. It was actually suggested to me one day
                        as something interesting to do, to go to the Zoological Gardens and see the
                        animals fed! I chanced to come there when they were feeding the owls, giving
                        each one a mouse, live or dead, I could not quite make out. That was enough
                        for me. I despise flesh-eating birds anyhow. They are quite the most
                        horrible of all evoluted specimens. This particular collection eagles,
                        hawks, condors, owls of every known type and variety, and buzzards all sat
                        in their cages gorging themselves on raw meat or mice. The owls, to my
                        disgust, fixed me with their relentless eyes, the while they tore at the
                        entrails of their victims. As a realist, of course, I ought to accept all
                        these delicate manifestations of the iron constitution of the universe as
                        interesting, but I can't. Now and then, very frequently, in fact,
                        life  becomes too much for my hardy stomach. I
                        withdraw, chilled and stupefied by the way strength survives and weakness
                        goes under. And to think that as yet we have no method of discovering why
                        the horrible appears and no reason for saying that it should not. Yet one
                        can actually become surfeited with beauty and art and take refuge in the
                        inartistic and the unlovely!
                    One of the Berliners' most wearying characteristics is their
                        contentious attitude. To the few, barring the women, to whom I was
                        introduced, I could scarcely talk. As a matter of fact I was not expected
                        to. They would talk to me. Argument was,
                        in its way, obviously an insult. Anything that I might have to say or
                        suggest was of small importance; anything they had to say was of the utmost
                        importance commercially, socially, educationally, spiritually, any way you
                        chose, and they emphasized so many of their remarks with a deep voice, a
                        hard, guttural force, a frown, or a rap on the table with their fists that I
                        was constantly overawed.
                    Take this series of incidents as typical of the Berlin spirit: One day as I
                        walked along Unter den Linden I saw a minor officer standing in front of a
                        sentry who was not far from his black-and-white striped sentry-box, his body
                        as erect as a ramrod, his gun "presented" stiff before
                        him, not an eyelash moving, not a breath stirring. This endured for possibly
                        fifty seconds or longer. You would not get the importance of this if you did
                        not realize how strict the German military regulations are. At the sound of
                        an officer's horn or the observed approach of a superior officer
                        there is a noticeable stiffening of the muscles of the various sentries in
                        sight. In this instance the minor officer imagined that he had not been
                        saluted properly, I presume, and suspected that the soldier was heavy with
                        too much beer. Hence the rigid  test that
                        followed. After the officer was gone, the soldier looked for all the world
                        like a self-conscious house-dog that has just escaped a good beating,
                        sheepishly glancing out of the corners of his eyes and wondering, no doubt,
                        if by any chance the officer was coming back. "If he had moved so
                        much as an eyelid," said a citizen to me, emphatically and
                        approvingly, "he would have been sent to the guard-house, and
                        rightly. Swine-hound! He should tend to his
                        duties!"
                    Coming from Milan to Lucerne, and again from Lucerne to Frankfort, and again
                        from Frankfort to Berlin, I sat in the various dining-cars next to Germans
                        who were obviously in trade and successful. Oh, the compact sufficiency of
                        them! "Now, when you are in Italy," said one to another,
                        "you see signs' French spoken,' or '
                        English spoken '; not ' German spoken.' Fools!
                        They really do not know where their business comes from."
                    On the train from Lucerne to Frankfort I overheard another sanguine and
                        vigorous pair. Said one: "Where I was in Spain, near Barcelona,
                        things were wretched. Poor houses, poor wagons, poor clothes, poor stores.
                        And they carry English and American goodsthese dunces! Proud and slow. You
                        can scarcely tell them anything."
                    "We will change all that in ten years," replied the other.
                        "We are going after that trade. They need up-to-date German
                        methods."
                    In a caf in Charlottenberg, near the Kaiser-Friedrich Gedchtnis-Kirche, I sat
                        with three others. One was from Leipzig, in the fur business. The others
                        were merchants of Berlin. I was not of their party, merely an accidental
                        auditor.
                    "In Russia the conditions are terrible. They do not know what life
                        is. Such villages!"
                    
                    "Do the English buy there much?"
                    "A great deal."
                    "We shall have to settle this trade business with war yet. It will
                        come. We shall have to fight."
                    "In eight days," said one of the Berliners, "we
                        could put an army of one hundred and fifty thousand men in England with all
                        supplies sufficient for eight weeks. Then what would they do?"
                    Do these things suggest the German sense of self-sufficiency and ability?
                        They are the commonest of the commonplaces.
                    During the short time that I was in Berlin I was a frequent witness of quite
                        human but purely Teutonic bursts of temperthat rapid, fiery mounting of
                        choler which verges apparently on a physical explosion,the bursting of a
                        blood vessel. I was going home one night late, with Herr A., from the
                        Potsdamer Bahnhof, when we were the witnesses of an absolutely magnificent
                        and spectacular fight between two Germansso Teutonic and temperamental as to
                        be decidedly worth while. It occurred between a German escorting a lady and
                        carrying a grip at the same time, and another German somewhat more slender
                        and somewhat taller, wearing a high hat and carrying a walking-stick. This
                        was on one of the most exclusive suburban lines operating out of Berlin.
                    It appears that the gentleman with the high hat and cane, in running to catch
                        his train along with many others, severely jostled the gentleman with the
                        lady and the portmanteau. On the instant, an absolutely terrific explosion!
                        To my astonishmentand, for the moment, I can say my horrorI saw these two
                        very fiercely attack each other, the one striking wildly with his large
                        portmanteau, the other replying with lusty blows of his stick, a club-like
                        affair which fell with hard whacks on his rival's head. Hats were
                        knocked off, 
                        
                            Teutonic bursts of temper
                        
                        
                         shirt-fronts marked and torn; blood began to
                        flow where heads and faces were cut severely, and almost pandemonium broke
                        loose in the surrounding crowd.
                    Fighting always produces an atmosphere of intensity in any nationality, but
                        this German company seemed fairly to coruscate with anguish, wrath, rage,
                        blood-thirsty excitement. The crowd surged to and fro as the combatants
                        moved here and there. A large German officer, his brass helmet a welcome
                        shield in such an affair, was brought from somewhere. Such noble German
                        epithets as"Swine-hound!"
                        "Hundsknochen!" (dog's bone),
                        "Schafskopf!" (sheep's head),
                        "Schafsgesicht!" (sheep-face), and even more
                        untranslatable words filled the air. The station platform was fairly boiling
                        with excitement. Husbands drove their wives back, wives pulled their
                        husbands away, or tried to, and men immediately took sides as men will.
                        Finally the magnificent representative of law and order, large and
                        impregnable as Gibraltar, interposed his great bulk between the two.
                        Comparative order was restored. Each contestant was led away in an opposite
                        direction. Some names and addresses were taken by the policeman. In so far
                        as I could see no arrests were made; and finally both combatants, cut and
                        bleeding as they were, were allowed to enter separate cars and go their way.
                        That was Berlin to the life. The air of the city, of Germany almost, was
                        ever rife with contentious elements and emotions.
                    I should like to relate one more incident, and concerning quite another angle
                        of Teutonism. This relates to German sentiment, which is as close to the
                        German surface as German rage and vanity. It occurred in the outskirts of
                        Berlinone of those interesting regions where solid blocks of gold- and
                        silver-balconied apartment houses march up to the edge of streetless,
                        sewerless, lightless  green fields and stop.
                        Beyond lie endless areas of truck gardens or open common yet to be
                        developed. City-ward lie miles on miles of electric-lighted, vacuum-cleaned,
                        dumb-waitered and elevator-served apartments, and, of course, street cars.
                    I had been investigating a large section of land devoted to free (or
                        practically free) municipal gardens for the poor, one of those socialistic
                        experiments of Germany which, as is always the way, benefit the capable and
                        leave the incapable just where they were before. As I emerged from a large
                        area of such land divided into very small garden plots, I came across a
                        little graveyard adjoining a small, neat, white concrete church where a
                        German burial service was in progress. The burial ground was not significant
                        or pretentiousa poor man's graveyard, that was plain. The little
                        church was too small and too sectarian in its mood, standing out in the wind
                        and rain of an open common, to be of any social significance. Lutheran, I
                        fancied. As I came up a little group of pall-bearers, very black and very
                        solemn, were carrying a white satin-covered coffin down a bare gravel path
                        leading from the church door, the minister following, bareheaded, and after
                        him the usual company of mourners in solemn high hats or thick black veils,
                        the foremosta mother and a remaining daughter I took them to besobbing
                        bitterly. Just then six choristers in black frock coats and high hats,
                        standing to one side of the gravel path like six blackbirds ranged on a
                        fence, began to sing a German parting-song to the melody of "Home
                        Sweet Home." The little white coffin, containing presumably the
                        body of a young girl, was put down by the grave while the song was completed
                        and the minister made a few consolatory remarks.
                    I have never been able, quite, to straighten out for myself the magic of what
                        followedits stirring effect.  Into the hole of
                        very yellow earth, cut through dead brown grass, the white coffin was
                        lowered and then the minister stood by and held out first to the father and
                        then to the mother and then to each of the others as they passed a small,
                        white, ribbon-threaded basket containing broken bits of the yellow earth
                        intermixed with masses of pink and red rose-leaves. As each sobbing person
                        came forward he, or she, took a handful of earth and rose leaves and let
                        them sift through his fingers to the coffin below. A lump rose in my throat
                        and I hurried away.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XLIX
                    ON THE WAY TO HOLLANDM
                    
                        I CAME near finding myself in serious straights
                        financially on leaving Berlin; for, owing to an over-sight, and the fact
                        that I was lost in pleasant entertainment up to quite the parting hour, on
                        examining my cash in hand I found I had only fifteen marks all told. This
                        was Saturday night and my train was leaving in just thirty minutes. My taxi
                        fare would be two marks. I had my ticket, but excess baggage!I saw that
                        looming up largely. It could mean anything in Europeten, twenty, thirty
                        marks. "Good Heavens!" I thought. "Who is there
                        to cash a letter of credit for me on Saturday night?" I thought of
                        porters, taxis, train hands at Amsterdam. "If I get there at
                        all," I sighed, "I get there without a cent." For
                        a minute I thought seriously of delaying my departure and seeking the aid of
                        Herr A. However, I hurried on to the depot where I first had my trunk
                        weighed and found that I should have to pay ten marks excess baggage. That
                        was not so bad. My taxi chauffeur demanded two. My Packtrger took one more, my parcel-room clerk, one mark in fees,
                        leaving me exactly one mark and my letter of credit. "Good
                        Heavens!" I sighed. "I can see the expectant customs
                        officers at the border! Without money I shall have to open every one of my
                        bags. I can see the conductor expecting four or five marks and getting
                        nothing. I can seeoh, Lord!"
                    Still I did not propose to turn back, I did not have time. The clerk at the
                        Amsterdam hotel would have to loan me money on my letter of credit. So I
                        bustled  ruminatively into the train. It was a
                        long, dusty affair, coming from St. Petersburg and bound for Holland, Paris,
                        and the boats for England. It was crowded with passengers but, thank Heaven,
                        all of them safely bestowed in separate compartments or
                        "drawing-rooms" after the European fashion. I drew my
                        blinds, undressed swiftly and got into bed. Let all conductors rage, I
                        thought. Porters be damned. Frontier inspectors could go to blazes. I am
                        going to sleep, my one mark in my coat pocket.
                    I was just dozing off when the conductor called to ask if I did not want to
                        surrender the keys to my baggage in order to avoid being waked in the
                        morning at the frontier. This service merited a tip which, of course, I was
                        in no position to give. "Let me explain to you," I said.
                        "This is the way it is. I got on this train with just one
                        mark." I tried to make it clear how it all happened, in my halting
                        German.
                    He was a fine, tall, military, solid-chested fellow. He looked at me with
                        grave, inquisitive eyes. "I will come in a little later,"
                        he grunted. Instead, he shook me rudely at five-thirty A.
                        M., at some small place in Holland, and told me that I would have to go
                        out and open my trunk. Short shrift for the man who cannot or will not tip!
                    Still I was not so downcast. For one thing we were in Holland, actually and
                        truly,quaint little Holland with its five million population crowded into
                        cities so close together that you could get from one to another in a
                        half-hour or a little over. To me, it was first and foremost the land of
                        Frans Hals and Rembrandt van Ryn and that whole noble company of Dutch
                        painters. All my life I had been more or less fascinated by those smooth
                        surfaces, the spirited atmosphere, those radiant simplicities of the Dutch
                        interiors, the village inns, windmills,  canal
                        scenes, housewives, fishwives, old topers, cattle, and nature scenes which
                        are the basis and substance of Dutch art. I will admit, for
                        argument's sake, that the Dutch costume with its snowy neck and
                        head-piece and cuffs, the Dutch windmill, with its huge wind-bellied sails,
                        the Dutch landscape so flat and grassy and the Dutch temperament,
                        broad-faced and phlegmatic, have had much to do with my art attraction, but
                        over and beyond those there has always been so much more than thisan
                        indefinable something which, for want of a better phrase, I can only call
                        the wonder of the Dutch soul, the most perfect expression of commonplace
                        beauty that the world has yet seen. So easily life runs off into the
                        mystical, the metaphysical, the emotional, the immoral, the passionate and
                        the suggestive, that for those delicate flaws of perfection in which life is
                        revealed static, quiescent, undisturbed, innocently gay, navely beautiful,
                        how can we be grateful enough! For those lovely, idyllic minds that were
                        content to paint the receipt of a letter, an evening school, dancing
                        peasants, a gust of wind, skaters, wild ducks, milk-time, a market, playing
                        at draughts, the fruiterer, a woman darning stockings, a woman scouring, the
                        drunken roysterers, a cow stall, cat and kittens, the grocer's
                        shop, the chemist's shop, the blacksmith's shop,
                        feeding-time, and the like, my heart has only reverence. And it is not
                        (again) this choice of subject alone, nor the favorable atmosphere of
                        Holland in which these were found, so much as it is that delicate refinement
                        of soul, of perception, of feelingthe miracle of temperamentthrough which
                        these things were seen. Life seen through a temperament! that
                            is the miracle of art.
                    
                    Yet the worst illusion that can be entertained concerning art is that it is
                        apt to appear at any time in any country, through a given personality or a
                        group of individuals  without any deep
                        relation to much deeper mystical and metaphysical things. Some little
                        suggestion of the artistry of life may present itself now and then through a
                        personality, but art in the truest sense is the substance of an age, the
                        significance of a countrya nationality. Even more than that, it is a
                        time-spirit (the Zeitgeist of the Germans) that appears of
                        occasion to glorify a land, to make great a nation. You would think that
                        some-where in the sightless substance of thingsthe chemistry back of the
                        material evidence of lifethere was a lovely, roseate milling of superior
                        principle at times. Strange and lovely things come to the forethe
                        restoration in England, the Renaissance in Italy, Florence's golden
                        period, Holland's classic art - all done in a century.
                        "And the spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters,"
                        and there was that which we know as art.
                    I think it was years before those two towering figuresRembrandt and Frans
                        Hats (and of the two, Frans Hals is to me the greater)appeared in my
                        consciousness and emphasized the distinction of Holland for me, showing me
                        that the loveliness of Dutch art,the navet of Wouverman, the poetic realism
                        of Nicolaes Mats, the ultimate artistry of Vermeer, de Hoogh, Ruysdael and
                        all that sweet company of simple painters of simple things,had finally come
                        to mean to me all that I can really hope for in artthose
                        last final reflections of halcyon days which are the best that life has to
                        show.
                    Sometimes when I think of the homely splendors of Dutch art, which in its
                        delicate commonplaceness has nothing to do with the more universal
                        significance of both Hals and Rembrandt, I get a little wild artistically.
                        Those smooth persuasive surfacespure enameland symphonies of blue light
                        which are Vermeer; those genial household intimacies and candle-light
                        romances which are Dou; those alleluiahs of light and water which are  Vandervelde, Backhysen, Van Goyen; those
                        merry-makings, perambulations, doorway chats, poultry intimacies, small
                        trade affections and exchanges which are Terburg and Van Ostade! Truly,
                        words fail me. I do not know how to suggest the poetry, the realism, the
                        mood, the artistic craftsmanship that go with these things. They suggest a
                        time, a country, an age, a mood, which is at once a philosophy, a system, a
                        spirit of life. What more can art be? What more can it suggest? How, in that
                        fortune of chance, which combines it with color-sense, temperament, craft,
                        can it be exceeded? And all of this is what Dutch artthose seemingly minor
                        phases, after Hals and Rembrandtmeans to me.
                    But I was in Holland now, and not concerned so much for the moment with Dutch
                        art as with my trunks. Still I felt here, at the frontier, that already I
                        was in an entirely different world. Gone was that fever of the blood which
                        is Germany. Gone the heavy, involute, enduring, Teutonic architecture. The
                        upstanding German,kaiserlich, self-opinionated, drastic, aggressivewas no
                        longer about me. The men who were unlocking trunks and bags here exemplified
                        a softer, milder, less military type. This mystery of national
                        temperamentswas I never to get done with it? As I looked about me against a
                        pleasant rising Sunday sun I could see and feel that not only the people but
                        the landscape and the architecture had changed. The architecture was
                        obviously so different, low, modest, one-story cottages standing out on a
                        smooth, green level land, so smooth and so green and so level that anything
                        projected against the skylineit mattered not how modestthereby became
                        significant. And I saw my first Holland windmill turning its scarecrow arms
                        in the distance. It was like coming out of a Russian steam bath into the
                        cool marble  precincts of the plunge, to be
                        thus projected from Germany into Holland. If you will believe me I was glad
                        that I had no money in order that I might be driven out to see all this.
                    I had no trouble with trunks and bags other than opening them and being
                        compelled to look as though I thought it a crime to tip anybody. I strolled
                        about the station in the early light of a clear, soft day and speculated on
                        this matter of national temperaments. What a pity, I thought, if Holland
                        were ever annexed by Germany or France or any country and made to modify its
                        individuality. Before I was done with it I was inclined to believe that its
                        individuality would never be modified, come any authority that might.
                    The balance of the trip to Amsterdam was nothing, a matter of two hours, but
                        it visualized all I had fancied concerning Holland. Such a mild little land
                        it is. So level, so smooth, so green. I began to puzzle out the signs along
                        the way; they seemed such a hodge-podge of German and English badly mixed,
                        that I had to laugh. The train passed up the center of a street in one
                        village where cool brick pavements fronted cool brick houses and stores, and
                        on one shop window appeared the legend: "Haar Snijden."
                        Would not that as a statement of hair-cutting make any German-American
                        laugh? "Telefoon," "stoom boot,"
                        "Trein voor Ostende," "land to koop"
                        (for sale) and the like brought a mild grin of amusement.
                    When we reached Amsterdam I had scarcely time to get a sense of it before I
                        was whisked away in an electric omnibus to the hotel; and I was eager to get
                        there, too, in order to replenish my purse which was now without a single
                        penny. The last mark had gone to the porter at the depot to carry my bags to
                        this 'bus. I was  being deceived as
                        to the character of the city by this ride from the central station to the
                        hotel, for curiously its course gave not a glimpse of the canals that are
                        the most charming and pleasing features of Amsterdam more so than in any
                        other city in Holland. And now what struggles for a little ready money! My
                        bags and fur coat had been duly carried into the hotel and I had signified
                        to the porter in a lordly way that he should pay the 'busman, but
                        seeing that I had letters which might result in local invitations this very
                        day a little ready cash was necessary.
                    "I tell you what I should like you to do," I observed to
                        the clerk, after I had properly entered my name and accepted a room.
                        "Yesterday in Berlin, until it was too late, I forgot to draw any
                        money on my letter of credit. Let me have forty gulden and I will settle
                        with you in the morning."
                    "But, my dear sir," he said, very doubtfully indeed and in
                        very polite English, "I do not see how we can do that. We do not
                        know you."
                    "It is surely not so unusual," I suggested ingratiatingly,
                        "you must have done it before. You see my bags and trunk are here.
                        Here is my letter of credit. Let me speak to the manager."
                    The dapper Dutchman looked at my fur coat and bags quite critically, looked
                        at my letter of credit as if he felt sure it was a forgery and then retired
                        into an inner office. Presently a polished creature appeared, dark,
                        immaculate, and after eyeing me solemnly, shook his head. "It
                        can't be done," he said.
                    He turned to go.
                    "But here, here!" I called. "This won't
                        do. You must be sensible. What sort of a hotel do you keep here, anyhow? I
                        must have forty guldenthirty, anyhow. My letter of credit is good. Examine
                        it. Good heavens!  You have at least eight
                        hundred gulden worth of lug-gage there."
                    He had turned and was surveying me again. "It can't be
                        done," he said.
                    "Impossible!" I cried. "I must have it. Why, I
                        have n't a cent. You must trust me until to-morrow
                        morning."
                    "Give him twenty gulden," he said to the clerk, wearily,
                        and turned away.
                    "Good Heavens!" I said to the clerk, "give me the
                        twenty gulden before I die of rage." And so he counted them out to
                        me and I went in to breakfast.
                    I was charmed to find that the room overlooked one of the lovely canals with
                        a distant view of othersall of them alive with canal-boats poled along
                        slowly by solid, placid Hollanders, the spring sunlight giving them a warm,
                        alluring, mildly adventurous aspect. The sense of light on water was so
                        delightful from the breakfast-room, a great airy place, that it gave an
                        added flavor to my Sunday morning breakfast of eggs and bacon. I was so
                        pleased with my general surroundings here that I even hummed a tune while I
                        ate.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER L
                    AMSTERDAM
                    
                        AMSTERDAM I should certainly include among my cities of
                        light and charm, a place to live in. Not that it has, in my judgment, any of
                        that capital significance of Paris or Rome or Venice. Though greater by a
                        hundred thousand in population than Frankfort, it has not even the forceful
                        commercial texture of that place. The spirit of the city seemed so much more
                        unbusinesslike,so much slower and easier-going. Before I sent forth a single
                        letter of introduction I spent an entire day idling about its so often
                        semicircular streets, following the canals which thread their centers like
                        made pools, rejoicing in the cool brick walks which line the sides, looking
                        at the reflection of houses and buildings in the ever-present water.
                    Holland is obviously a land of canals and windmills, but much more than that
                        it is a land of atmosphere. I have often speculated as to just what it is
                        that the sea does to its children that marks them so definitely for its own.
                        And here in Amsterdam the thought came to me again. It is this: Your
                        waterside idler, whether he traverses the wide stretches of the ocean or
                        remains at home near the sea, has a seeming vacuity or dreaminess of soul
                        that no rush of ordinary life can disturb. I have noted it of every port of
                        the sea, that the eager intensity of men so often melts away at the
                        water's edge. Boats are not loaded with the hard realism that marks
                        the lading of trains. A sense of the idle-devil-may-care indifference of
                        water seems to play about the affairs of these people, of those who have to
                        do with themthe  unhastening indifference of
                        the sea. Perhaps the suggestion of the soundless, timeless, heartless deep
                        that is in every channel, inlet, sluice, and dock-basin is the element that
                        is at the base of their lagging motions. Your sailor and seafaring man will
                        not hurry. His eyes are wide with a strange suspicion of the deep. He knows
                        by contact what the subtlety and the fury of the waters are. The word of the
                        sea is to be indifferent. "Never you mind, dearie. As it was in the
                        beginning, so it ever shall be."
                    I think the peace and sweetness of Amsterdam bear some relationship to this
                        wonderful, soporific spirit of the endless deep. As I walked along these
                        "grachts" and "kades" and through these
                        "pleins"seemingly enameled worlds in which water and trees
                        and red brick houses swam in a soft light, exactly the light and atmosphere
                        you find in Dutch artI felt as though I had come out of a hard modern
                        existence such as one finds in Germany and back into something kindly,
                        rural, intellectual, philosophic. Spinoza Was, I believe, Holland's
                        contribution to philosophy,and a worthy Dutch philosopher he wasand Erasmus
                        its great scholar. Both Rembrandt and Frans Hals have indicated in their
                        lives the spirit of their country. I think, if you could look into the
                        spirits and homes of thousands of simple Hollanders, you would find that
                        same kindly, cleanly realism which you admire in their paintings. It is so
                        placid. It was so here in Amsterdam. One gathered it from the very air. I
                        had a feeling of peaceful, meditative delight in life and the simplicities
                        of living all the time I was in Holland, which I take to be significant. All
                        the while I was there I was wishing that I might remain throughout the
                        spring and summer, and dream. In Germany I was haunted by the necessity of
                        effort.
                    It was while I was in Amsterdam this first morning  that the realization that my travels were fast drawing to a
                        close dawned upon me. I had been having such a good time! That fresh,
                        interested feeling of something new to look forward to with each morning was
                        still enduring; but now I saw that my splendid world of adventure was all
                        but ended. Thoreau has proved, as I recalled now with some satisfaction,
                        that life can be lived, with great intellectual and spiritual distinction in
                        a meager way and in small compass, but oh, the wonder of the
                        world's highwaysthe going to and fro amid the things of eminence
                        and memory, seeing how, thus far, this wordly house of ours has been
                        furnished by man and by nature.
                    All those wonderful lands and objects that I had looked forward to with such
                        keen interest a few months before were now in their way things of the past.
                        England, France, Italy, Germany, London, Paris, Rome, Berlin, Canterbury,
                        Amiens, St. Peter's, PisaI could not look on those any more with
                        fresh and wondering eyes. How brief life is, I thought! How taciturn in its
                        mood! It gives us a brief sip, some of us, once and then takes the cup away.
                        It seemed to me, as I sat here looking out on the fresh and sweet canals of
                        Holland, that I could idle thus forever fleeting down foolish impressions,
                        exclaiming over fleeting phases of beauty, wiping my eyes at the hails and
                        farewells that are so precious and so sad. Holland was before me, and
                        Belgium, and one more sip of Paris, and a few days in England, perhaps, and
                        then I should go back to New York to write. I could see itNew York with its
                        high buildings, its clanging cars, its rough incivility. Oh, why might I not
                        idle abroad indefinitely?
                    The second morning of my arrival I received a telephone message from a sister
                        of Madame A., Madame J., the wife of an eminent Dutch jurist who had
                        something  to do with the International Peace
                        Court. Would I come to lunch this day? Her husband would be a little late,
                        but I would not mind. Her sister had written her. She would be so glad to
                        see me. I promptly accepted.
                    The house was near the Ryks Museum, with a charming view of water from the
                        windows. I can see it now this very pleasant Holland interior. The rooms
                        into which I was introduced were bluish-gray in tone, the contents spare and
                        in good taste. Flowers in abundance. Much brass and old copper. Madame J.
                        was herself a study in steel blue and silver gray, a reserved yet
                        temperamental woman. A better linguist than Madame A., she spoke English
                        perfectly. She had read my book, the latest one, and had liked it, she told
                        me. Then she folded her hands in her lap, leaned forward and looked at
                        me."I have been so curious to see what you looked like."
                    "Well," I replied smilingly, "take a long look. I
                        am not as wild as early rumors would indicate, I hope. You must n't
                        start with prejudices."
                    She smiled engagingly. "It is n't that. There are so many
                        things in your book which make me curious. It is such a strange
                        bookself-revealing; I imagine."
                    "I would n't be too sure."
                    She merely continued to look at me and smile in a placid way, but her
                        inspection was so sympathetic and in a way alluring that it was rather
                        flattering than otherwise. I, in turn, studied her. Here was a woman that, I
                        had been told, had made an ideal marriage. And she obviously displayed the
                        quiet content that few achieve.
                    Like Shakespeare, I would be the last one to admit an impediment to the
                        marriage of true minds. Unquestionably in this world in spite of endless
                        liaisons, sex diversions, divorces, marital conflicts innumerable, the right
                        people do occasionally find each other. There are  true chemical-physical affinities, which remain so until death
                        and dissolution undo their mysterious spell. Yet, on the other hand, I
                        should say this is the rarest of events and if I should try to formulate the
                        mystery of the marital trouble of this earth I should devote considerable
                        percentages to: aungovernable passion not willed or able to be controlled by
                        the individual; bdull, thick-hided irresponsiveness which sees nothing in
                        the emotional mood of another and knows no guiding impulse save
                        self-interest and gluttony; cfickleness of that unreasoning, unthinking
                        character which is based on shallowness of soul and emotionsthe pains
                        resulting from such a state are negligible; d diverging mental conceptions
                        of life due to the hastened or retarded mental growth of one or the other of
                        the high contracting parties; emistaken unions, wrong from the beginning,
                        based on mistaken affectionscases where youth, inexperience, early
                        ungovernable desire lead to a union based on sex and end, of course, in
                        mental incompatibility; fa hounding compulsion to seek for a high spiritual
                        and intellectual ideal which almost no individual can realize for another
                        and which yet may be realized in a lightning flash, out of
                        a clear sky, as it were. In which case the last two will naturally forsake
                        all others and cleave only the one to the other. Such is sex's
                        affection, mental and spiritual compatibility.
                    But in marriage, as in no other trade, profession, or contract, once a
                        bargain is strucka mistake madesociety suggests that there is no solution
                        save in death. You cannot back out. It is almost the only place where you
                        cannot correct a mistake and start all over. Until death do us part! Think
                        of that being written and accepted of a mistaken marriage! My answer is that
                        death would better hurry up. If the history of human marriage indicates
                        anything, it is that the conditions which 
                        make for the union of two individuals, male and female, are purely
                        fortuitous, that marriages are not made in heaven but in life's
                        conditioning social laboratory, and that the marriage relation, as we
                        understand it, is quite as much subject to modification and revision as
                        anything else. Padical as it may seem, I predict a complete revision of the
                        home standards as we know them. I would not be in the least surprised if the
                        home, as we know it, were to disappear entirely. New, modifying conditions
                        are daily manifesting themselves. Aside from easy divorce which is a mere
                        safety valve and cannot safely (and probably will not) be dispensed with,
                        there are other things which are steadily undermining the old home system as
                        it has been practised. For instance, endless agencies which tend to
                        influence, inspire, and direct the individual or child, entirely apart from
                        the control and suggestion of parents, are now at work. In the rearing of
                        the average child the influence of the average parent is
                        steadily growing less. Intellectual, social, spiritual freedom are
                        constantly being suggested to the individual, but not by the home. People
                        are beginning to see that they have a right to seek and seek until they find
                        that which is best suited to their intellectual, physical, spiritual
                        development, home or no home. No mistake, however great, or disturbing in
                        its consequences, it is beginning to be seen, should be irretrievable. The
                        greater the mistake, really, the easier it should be to right it. Society
                            must and is opening the prison doors
                        of human misery, and old sorrows are walking out into the sunlight where
                        they are being dispelled and forgotten. As sure as there are such things as
                        mental processes, spiritual affinities, significant individualities and as
                        sure as these things are increasing in force, volume, numbers, so sure,
                        also, is it that the marriage state and the sex relation with which these
                        things are so curiously and indissolubly involved will be  modified, given greater scope, greater ease
                        of adjustment, greater simplicity of initiation, greater freedom as to
                        duration, greater kindliness as to termination. And the state will guarantee
                        the right, privileges and immunities of the children to the entire
                        satisfaction of the state, the parents, and the children. It cannot be
                        otherwise.
                    Mynheer J. joined us presently. He was rather spare, very waxy, very
                        intellectual, very unattached philosophicallyapparentlyand yet very rigid in
                        his feeling for established principle. The type is quite common among
                        intellectuals. Much reading had not made him mad but a little pedantic. He
                        was speculatively interested in international peace though he did not
                        believe that it could readily be established. Much more, apparently, he was
                        interested in the necessity of building up a code or body of international
                        laws which would be flexible and binding on all nations. Imaginatively I
                        could see him at his heavy tomes. He had thin, delicate, rather handsome
                        hands; a thin, dapper, wiry body. He was older than Madame J.,say fifty-five
                        or sixty. He had nice, swell-barbered, short gray whiskers, a short,
                        effective mustache, loose, well-trained, rather upstanding hair. Some such
                        intellectual Northman Ibsen intended to give Hedda.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER LI
                    "SPOTLESS TOWN"
                    
                        AT three o'clock I left these pleasant people to
                        visit the Ryks Museum and the next morning ran over to Haarlem, a half-hour
                        away, to look at the Frans Hals in the Stadhuis. Haarlem was the city, I
                        remember with pleasure, that once suffered the amazing tulip craze that
                        swept over Holland in the sixteenth centurythe city in which single rare
                        tulips, like single rare carnations to-day, commanded enormous sums of
                        money. Rare species, because of the value of the subsequent bulb sale, sold
                        for hundreds of thousands of gulden. I had heard of the long line of colored
                        tulip beds that lay between here and Haarlem and The Hague and I was
                        prepared to judge for myself whether they were beautifulas beautiful as the
                        picture post-cards sold everywhere indicated. I found this so, but even more
                        than the tulip beds I found the country round about from Amsterdam to
                        Haarlem, The Hague and Rotterdam delightful. I traveled by foot and by
                        train, passing by some thirty miles of vari-colored flower-beds in blocks of
                        red, white, blue, purple, pink, and yellow, that lie between the several
                        cities. I stood in the old Groote Kerk of St. Bavo in Haarlem, the Groote
                        Kerk of St. James in The Hagueboth as bare of ornament as an
                        anchorite's cellI wandered among the art treasures of the Ryks
                        Museum in Amsterdam and the Mauritshuis and the Mesdag Museum in The Hague;
                        I walked in the forests of moss-tinted trees at Haarlem and again at The
                        Hague; my impression was that compact little Holland had all  the charm of a great private estate,
                        beautifully kept and intimately delightful.
                    But the canals of Hollandwhat an airy impression of romance, of pure poetry,
                        they left on my mind! There are certain visions or memories to which the
                        heart of every individual instinctively responds. The canals of Holland are
                        one such to me. I can see them now, in the early morning, when the sun was
                        just touching them with the faintest pearls, pinks, lavenders, blues, their
                        level surfaces as smooth as glass, their banks rising no whit above the
                        level of the water, but lying even with it like a black or emerald frame,
                        their long straight lines broken at one point or another by a low brown or
                        red or drab cottage or windmill! I can see them again at evening, the
                        twilight hour, when in that poetically suffused mood of nature, which
                        obtains then, they lie, liquid masses of silver, a shred of tinted cloud
                        reflected in their surface, the level green grass turning black about them,
                        a homing bird, a mass of trees in the distance, or humble cottage, its
                        windows faintly gold from within, lending those last touches of artistry
                        which make the perfection of nature. As in London and Venice the sails of
                        their boats were colored a soft brown, and now and again one appeared in the
                        fading light, a healthy Hollander smoking his pipe at the tiller, a cool
                        wind fanning his brow. The world may hold more charming pictures but I have
                        not encountered them.
                    And across the level spaces of lush grass that seemingly stretch unbroken for
                        milesbordered on this side or that with a little patch of filigree trees;
                        ribboned and segmented by straight silvery threads of water; ornamented in
                        the foreground by a cow or two, perhaps, or a boatman steering his
                        motor-power canal boat; remotely ended by the seeming outlines of a distant
                        city, as delicately penciled as a line by Viergestand the windmills. I  have seen ten, twelve, fifteen, marching
                        serenely across the fields in a row, of an afternoon, like great, heavy, fat
                        Dutchmen, their sails going in slow, patient motions, their great sides
                        rounding out like solid Dutch ribs, naive, delicious things. There were
                        times when their outlines took on classic significance. Combined with the
                        utterly level land, the canals and the artistically martialed trees, they
                        constitute the very atmosphere of Holland.
                    Haarlem, when I reached it, pleased me almost as much as Amsterdam, though it
                        had no canals to speak ofby comparison. It was so clean and fresh and
                        altogether lovely. It reminded me of Spotless Townthe city
                        of advertising fameand I was quite ready to encounter the mayor, the
                        butcher, the doctor and other worthies of that ultra-respectable city.
                        Coming over from Amsterdam, I saw a little Dutch girl in wooden shoes come
                        down to a low gate which opened directly upon a canal and dip up a pitcher
                        of water. That was enough to key up my mood to the most romantic pitch. I
                        ventured forth right gaily in a warm spring sun and spent the better portion
                        of an utterly delightful day idling about its streets and museums.
                    Haarlem, to me, aside from the tulip craze, was where Frans Hals lived and
                        where in 1610, when he was thirty years of age, he married and where six
                        years later he was brought before the Burgomaster for ill-treating his wife,
                        and ordered to abstain from "dronkenschappe" Poor Frans Hals! The day I was
                        there a line of motor-cars stood outside the Stadhuis waiting while their
                        owners contemplated the wonders of the ten Regents pictures inside which are
                        the pride of Haarlem. When I left London Sir Scorp was holding his recently
                        discovered portrait by Hals at forty thousand pounds or more. I fancy to-day
                        any of the numerous portraits by Hals in his best  manner would bring two hundred thousand dollars and very
                        likely much more. Yet at seventy-two Hals's goods and chattelsthree
                        mattresses, one chair, one table, three bolsters, and five pictureswere sold
                        to satisfy a baker's bill, and from then on, until he died fourteen
                        years later, at eighty-six, his "rent and firing" were
                        paid for by the municipality. Fate probably saved a very great artist from
                        endless misery by letting his first wife die. As it was he appears to have
                        had his share of wretchedness.
                    The business of being really great is one of the most pathetic things in the
                        world. When I was in London a close friend of Herbert Spencer told me the
                        story of his. last days, and how, save for herself, there was scarcely any
                        one to cheer him in his loneliness. It was not that he lacked living meanshe
                        had thatbut living as he did. aloft in the eternal snows of speculation,
                        there was no one to share his thoughts,no one. It was the fate of that
                        gigantic mind to be lonely. What a pity the pleasures of the bottle or a
                        drug might not eventually have allured him. Old Omar knew the proper
                        antidote for these speculative miseries.
                    And Rembrandt van Rynthere was another. It is probably true that from 1606,
                        when he was born, until 1634, when he married at twenty-eight, he was gay
                        enough. He had the delicious pleasure of discovering that he was an artist.
                        Then he married Saskia van Uylenborchthe fair Saskia whom he painted sitting
                        so gaily on his kneeand for eight years he was probably supremely happy.
                        Saskia had forty thousand gulden to contribute to this mnage. Rembrandt's skill and fame were just attaining their
                        most significant proportions, when she died. Then, being an artist, his
                        affairs went from bad to worse; and you have the spectacle of this other
                        seer, Holland's metaphysician, color-genius, life-interpreter,  descending to an entanglement with a rather
                        dull housekeeper, losing his money, having all his possessions sold to pay
                        his debts and living out his last days in absolute loneliness at the
                        Keizerskroon Inn in Amsterdamquite neglected; for the local taste for art
                        had changed, and the public was a little sick of Hals and Rembrandt.
                    As I sat in the Kroon restaurant, in Haarlem, opposite the Groote Kerk,
                        watching some pigeons fly about the belfry, looking at Lieven de
                        Key's meat market, the prototype of Dutch quaintness, and
                        meditating on the pictures of these great masters that I had just seen in
                        the Stadhuis, the insignificance of the individual as compared with the
                        business of life came to me with overwhelming force. We are such minute,
                        dusty insects at best, great or small. The old age of most people is so
                        trivial and insignificant. We become mere shells
                        "granthers," "Goody Two-Shoes,"
                        "lean and slippered pantaloons." The spirit of life works
                        in massesnot individuals. It prefers a school or species to a single
                        specimen. A great man or woman is an accident. A great work of art of almost
                        any kind is almost always fortuitouslike this meat market over the way.
                        Life, for instance, I speculated sitting here, cared no more for Frans Hals
                        or Rembrandt or Lieven de Key than I cared for the meanest butcher or baker
                        of their day. If they chanced to find a means of subsistencewell and good;
                        if not, well and good also. "Vanity, vanity, saith the preacher,
                        all is vanity." Even so.
                    From Haarlem I went on to The Hague, about fifty minutes away; from The
                        Hague, late that evening, to Rotterdam; from Rotterdam to Dordrecht, and so
                        into Belgium, where I was amused to see everything change againthe people,
                        language, signs,all. Belgium appeared to be French, with only the faintest
                        suggestion of  Holland about itbut it was
                        different enough from France also to be interesting on its own account.
                    After a quick trip across Belgium with short but delightful stops at Bruges,
                        that exquisite shell of a once great city, at Ghent and at Brussels, the
                        little Paris, I arrived once more at the French capital.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER LII
                    PARIS AGAIN
                    
                        ONCE I was in Paris again. It was delightful, for now it
                        was spring, or nearly so, and the weather was pleasant. People were pouring
                        into the city in droves from all over the world. It was nearly midnight when
                        I arrived. My trunk, which I had sent on ahead, was somewhere in the limbo
                        of advance trunks and I had a hard time getting it. Parisian porters and
                        depot attendants know exactly when to lose all understanding of English and
                        all knowledge of the sign language. It is when the search for anything
                        becomes the least bit irksome. The tip they expect to get from you spurs
                        them on a little way, but not very far. Let them see that the task promises
                        to be somewhat wearisome and they disappear entirely. I lost two facteurs in this way, when they discovered that the trunk
                        was not ready to their hand, and so I had to turn in and search among
                        endless trunks myself. When I found it, a facteur was
                        quickly secured to truck it out to a taxi. And, not at all wonderful to
                        relate, the first man I had employed now showed up to obtain his pourboire. "Oh, here you are!" I
                        exclaimed, as I was getting into my taxi. "Well, you can go to the
                        devil!" He pulled a long face. That much English he knew.
                    When I reached the hotel in Paris I found Barfleur registered there but not
                        yet returned to his room. But several letters of complaint were awaiting me:
                        Why had n't I telegraphed the exact hour of my arrival; why had
                        n't I written fully? It was n't pleasant to wait in
                        uncertainty. If I had only been exact, several things  could have been arranged for this day or evening. While I was
                        meditating on my sins of omission and commission, a chasseur bearing a note arrived. Would I dress and come to
                        G.'s Bar. He would meet me at twelve. This was Saturday night, and
                        it would be good to look over Paris again. I knew what that meant. We would
                        leave the last restaurant in broad daylight, or at least the Paris dawn.
                    Coming down on the train from Brussels I had fallen into a blue funka kind of
                        mental miasmaone of the miseries Barfleur never indulged in. They almost
                        destroy me. Barfleur never, in so far as I could see, succumbed to the
                        blues. In the first place my letter of credit was all but used upmy funds
                        were growing terrify-ingly low; and it did not make me any more cheerful to
                        realize that my journey was now practically at an end. A few more days and I
                        would be sailing for home.
                    When, somewhat after twelve, I arrived at G.'s Bar I was still a
                        little doleful. Barfleur was there. He had just come in. That indescribable
                        Parisian tensionthat sense of life at the topmost level of nervous strength
                        and energywas filling this little place. The same red-jacketed musicians;
                        the same efficient, inconspicuous, attentive and courteous waiters; Madame
                        G., placid, philosophic, comfy, businesslike and yet motherlike, was going
                        to and fro, pleasingly arrayed, looking no doubt after the interests, woes,
                        and aspirations of her company of very, very bad but beautiful
                        "girls." The walls were lined with life-loving patrons of
                        from twenty-five to fifty years of age, with their female companions.
                        Barfleur was at his best. He was once more in Parishis beloved Paris. He
                        beamed on me in a cheerful, patronizing way.
                    "So there you are! The Italian bandits did n't waylay you,
                        even if they did rob you, I trust? The German Empire did n't sit
                        too heavily on you? Holland and  Switzerland
                        must have been charming as passing pictures. Where did you stop in
                        Amsterdam?"
                    "At the Amstel."
                    "Quite right. An excellent hotel. I trust Madame A. was nice to
                        you?"
                    "She was as considerate as she could be."
                    "Right and fitting. She should have been. I saw that you stopped at
                        the National, in Lucerne. That is one of the best hotels in Europe. I was
                        glad to see that your taste in hotels was not falling off."
                    We began with appetizers, some soup, and a light wine. I gave a rough summary
                        of some things I had seen, and then we came to the matter of my sailing date
                        and a proposed walking trip in England.
                    "Now, I'll tell you what I think we should do and then you
                        can use your own judgment," suggested Barfleur. "By the
                        time we get to London, next Wednesday or Tuesday, England will be in prime
                        condition. The country about Dorchester will be perfect. I suggest that we
                        take a week's walk, anyway. You come to Bridgely Levelit is
                        beautiful there nowand stay a week or ten days. I should like you to see how
                        charming it is about my place in the spring. Then we will go to Dorchester.
                        Then you can come back to Bridgely Level. Why not stay in England and write
                        this summer?"
                    I put up a hand in serious opposition. "You know I can't do
                        that. Why, if I had so much time, we might as well stay over here and settle
                        down inwell, Fontaine-bleau. Besides, money is a matter of prime
                        consideration with me. I 've got to buckle down to work at once at
                        anything that will make me ready money. I think in all seriousness I had
                        best drop the writing end of the literary profession for a while anyway and
                        return to the editorial desk."
                    The geniality and romance that lightened Barfleur's eye,  as he thought of the exquisite beauty of
                        England in the spring, faded, and his face became unduly severe.
                    "Really," he said, with a grand air, "you
                        discourage me. At times, truly, I am inclined to quit. You are a man, in so
                        far as I can see, with absolutely no faith in yourselfa man without a
                        profession or an appropriate feeling for his craft. You are inclined, on the
                        slightest provocation, to give up. You neither save anything over from
                        yesterday in the shape of satisfactory reflection nor look into the future
                        with any optimism. Do, I beg of you, have a little faith in the future.
                        Assume that a day is a day, wherever it is, and that so long as it is not in
                        the past it has possibilities. Here you are a man of forty; the formative
                        portion of your life is behind you. Your work is all indicated and before
                        you. Public faith such as my own should have some weight with you and yet
                        after a tour of Europe, such as you would not have reasonably contemplated a
                        year ago, you sink down supinely and talk of quitting. Truly it is too much.
                        You make me feel very desperate. One cannot go on in this fashion. You must
                        cultivate some intellectual stability around which your emotions can center
                        and settle to anchor."
                    "Fairest Barfleur," I replied, "how you preach!
                        You have real oratorical ability at times. There is much in what you say. I
                        should have a profession, but we are looking at life from slightly different
                        points of view. You have in your way a stable base, financially speaking. At
                        least I assume so. I have not. My outlook, outside of the talent you are
                        inclined to praise, is not very encouraging. It is not at all sure that the
                        public will manifest the slightest interest in me from now on. If I had a
                        large bump of vanity and the dull optimism of the unimaginative, I might
                        assume anything and go gaily on until I was attacked somewhere for a board
                        bill. Unfortunately I have not the necessary thickness of hide.  And I suffer periods of emotional disturbance
                        such as do not appear to afflict you. If you want to adjust my artistic
                        attitude so nicely, contemplate my financial state first and see if that
                        does not appeal to you as having some elements capable of disturbing my not
                        undue proportion of equanimity." We then went into actual figures
                        from which to his satisfaction he deducted that, with ordinary faith in
                        myself, I had no real grounds for distress, and I from mine figured that my
                        immediate future was quite as dubious as I had fancied. It did not appear
                        that I was to have any money when I left England. Rather I was to draw
                        against my future and trust that my innate capabilities would see me
                        through.
                    It was definitely settled at this conference that I was not to take the
                        long-planned walking tour in the south of England, lovely as it would be,
                        but instead, after three or four days in Paris and three or four days in
                        London, I was to take a boat sailing from Dover about the middle of April or
                        a little later which would put me in New York before May. This agreed we
                        returned to our pleasures and spent three or four very delightful days
                        together.
                    It is written of Hugo and Balzac that they always looked upon Paris as the
                        capital of the world. I am afraid I shall have to confess to a similar
                        feeling concerning New York. I know it all so wellits splendid water spaces,
                        its magnificent avenues, its varying sections, the rugged splendor of its
                        clifflike structures, the ripping force of its tides of energy and life.
                        Viewing Europe from the vantage point of the seven countries I had seen, I
                        was prepared to admit that in so many ways we are, temperamentally and
                        socially speaking, the rawest of raw material. No one could be more crude,
                        more illusioned than the average American. Contrasted with the savoir faire, the life understanding, the  philosophic acceptance of definite conditions in nature, the
                        Europeans are immeasurably superior. They are harder, better trained, more
                        settled in the routine of things. The folderols of romance, the shibboleths
                        of politics and religion, the false standards of social and commercial
                        supremacy are not so readily accepted there as here. Ill-founded aspiration
                        is not so rife there as here: every Jack does not consider himself,
                        regardless of qualifications, appointed by God to tell his neighbor how he
                        shall do and live. But granting all this, America, and particularly New
                        York, has to me the most comforting atmosphere of any. The subway is like my
                        library tableit is so much of an intimate. Broadway is the one idling show
                        place. Neither the Strand nor the Boulevard des Capucines can replace it.
                        Fifth Avenue is all that it should bethe one really perfect show street of
                        the world. All in all the Atlantic metropolis is the first city in the world
                        to me, first in force, unrivaled in individuality, richer and freer in its
                        spirit than London or Paris, though so often more gauche, more tawdry, more
                        shamblingly inexperienced.
                    As I sat in Madame G.'s Bar, the pull of the city overseas was on
                        meand that in the spring! I wanted to go home.
                    
                    We talked of the women we had got to know in Parisof Marcelle and Madame de
                        B. and other figures lurking in the background of this brilliant city. But
                        Marcelle would expect a trip to Fontainebleau and Madame de B. was likely to
                        be financially distressed. This cheerful sort of companionship would be
                        expensive. Did I care to submit to the expense? I did not. I felt that I
                        could not. So for once we decided to be modest and go out and see what we
                        could see alone. Our individual companionship was for the time-being
                        sufficient.
                    Barfleur and I truly kept step with Paris these early  spring days. This first night together we revisited all our
                        favorite cafs and restaurantsFysher's Bar, the Rat Mort,
                        C's Bar, the Abbaye Thlme, Maxim's, the American,
                        Paillard's and the like, and this, I soon realized: without a keen
                        sex interestthe companionship of these high-voltage ladies of ParisI can
                        imagine nothing duller. It becomes a brilliant but hollow spectacle.
                    The next day was Sunday. It was warm and sunny as a day could be. The air was
                        charged with a kind of gay expectation. Barfleur had discovered a
                        neo-impressionist portraitist of merit, one Hans Bois, and had agreed to
                        have his portrait done by him. This Sunday morning was the first day for a
                        series of three sittings; so I left him and spent a delicious morning in the
                        Bois. Paris in spring! The several daysfrom Saturday to Wednesdaywere like a
                        dream. A gay worldfull of the subtleties of social ambition, of desire,
                        fashion, love-making, and all the keenest, shrewdest aspects of life. It was
                        interesting, at the Caf Madrid and The Elyse, to sit out under trees and the
                        open sky and see an uninterrupted stream of automobiles and taxis pouring
                        up, depositing smart-looking people all glancing keenly about, nodding to
                        friends, now cordially, now tentatively, in a careful, selective social way.
                    One evening after I returned from a late ramble alone, I found on my table a
                        note from Barfleur. "For God's sake, if you get this in
                        time, come at once to the Abbaye Thlme. I am waiting for you with a Mrs. L.,
                        who wants to meet you." So I had to change to evening clothes at
                        one-thirty in the morning. And it was the same old thing when I reached
                        therewaiters tumbling over one another with their burdens of champagne,
                        fruit, ices, confitures; the air full of colored glucose balls, colored
                        balloons floating aloft, endless mirrors reflecting a  giddy panorama, white arms, white necks, animated faces, snowy
                        shirt bosomsthe old story. Spanish dancers in glittering scales, American
                        negroes in evening clothes singing coon songs, excited life-lovers, male and
                        female, dancing erotically in each other's arms. Can it be, I asked
                        myself, that this thing goes on night after night and year after year? Yet
                        it was obvious that it did.
                    The lady in question was rather remoteas an English-woman can be. I 'm sure she said to hereslf, "This is a
                        very dull author." But I could n't help it. She froze my
                        social sense into icy crystals of "yes "and
                        "no." We took her home presently and continued our rounds
                        till the wee sma' hours.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER LIII
                    THE VOYAGE HOME
                    
                        THE following Wednesday Barfleur and I returned to London
                        via Calais and Dover. We had been, between whiles, to the races at
                        Longchamps, luncheons at Au Pre Boivin, the Pr Catalan, and elsewhere. I had
                        finally looked up Marcelle, but the concierge explained that she was out of
                        town.
                    In spite of the titter fascination of Paris I was not at all sorry to leave,
                        for I felt that to be happy here one would want a more definite social life
                        and a more fixed habitation than this hotel and the small circle of people
                        that we had met could provide. I took a lastalmost a yearninglook at the
                        Avenue de 1'Opera and the Gate du Nord and then we were off.
                    England was softly radiant in her spring dress. The leaves of the trees
                        between Dover and London were just budding, that diaphanous tracery which
                        resembles green lace. The endless red chimneys and sagging green roofs and
                        eaves of English cottages peeping out from this vesture of spring were as
                        romantic and poetic as an old English ballad. No doubt at all that
                        Englandthe south of it, anyhowis in a rut; sixty years behind the times, but
                        what a rut! Must all be new and polished and shiny? As the towers and spires
                        of Canterbury sped past to the right, gray and crumbling in a winelike air,
                        something rose in my throat. I thought of that old English song that begins 
                    
                        "When shepherds pipe on oaten straws "
                    
                    And then London once more and all the mystery of endless involute streets and
                        simple, hidden, unexplored  regions! I went
                        once more to look at the grim, sad, two-story East End in spring. It was
                        even more pathetic for being touched by the caressing hand of Nature. I went
                        to look at Hyde Park and Chelsea and Seven Kings. I thought to visit Sir
                        Scorpto cringe once more before the inquiring severity of his ascetic eye;
                        but I did not have time, as things turned out. Barfleur was insistent that I
                        should spend a day or two at Bridgely Level. Owing to a great coal strike
                        the boat I had planned to take was put out of commission and I was compelled
                        to advance my sailing date two days on the boat of another line. And now I
                        was to see Bridgely Level once more, in the spring.
                    After Italy and Holland, perhaps side by side with Holland or before it,
                        Englandthe southern portion of itis the most charmingly individual country
                        in Europe. For the sake of the walk, the evening was so fine, we decided to
                        leave the train at Maidenhead and walk the remaining distance, some five or
                        six miles. It was ideal. The sun was going down and breaking through
                        diaphanous clouds in the west, which it tinted and gilded. The English
                        hedges and copses were delicately tinted with new life. English robins were
                        on the grass; sheep, cows; over one English hamlet and another smoke was
                        curling and English crows or rooks were gaily cawing, cheered at the thought
                        of an English spring.
                    As gay as children, Barfleur and I trudged the yellow English road. Now and
                        then we passed through a stile and cut diagonally across a field where a
                        path was laid for the foot of man. Every so often we met an English laborer,
                        his trousers gripped just below the knee by the customary English strap.
                        Green and red; green and red; (such were the houses and fields) with new
                        spring violets, apple trees in blossom, and peeping steeples over sloping
                        hillsides thrown in for good measure. I felt 
                        what shall I say I felt?not the grandeur of Italy, but something so delicate
                        and tender, so reminiscent and aromaticfaintly soof other days and other
                        fames, that my heart was touched as by music. Near Bridgely Level we
                        encountered Wilkins going home from his work, a bundle of twigs under his
                        arm, a pruning hook at his belt, his trousers strapped after the fashion of
                        his class.
                    "Well, Wilkins!" I exclaimed.
                    "W'y, 'ow do you do, sir, Mr. Dreiser?
                        Hi'm glad to see you again, Hi am," touching his cap.
                        "Hi 'opes as 'ow you 've had a pleasant
                        trip."
                    "Very, Wilkins, very," I replied grandiosely. Who cannot be
                        grandiose in the presence of the fixed conditions of old England. I asked
                        after his work and his health and then Barfleur gave him some instructions
                        for the morrow. We went on in a fading lightan English twilight. And when we
                        reached the country house it was already aglow in anticipation of this
                        visit. Hearth fires were laid. The dining-room, reception-hall, and
                        living-room were alight. Dora appeared at the door, quite as charming and
                        rosy in her white apron and cap as the day I left, but she gave no more sign
                        that I was strange or had been absent than as if I had not been away.
                    "Now we must make up our minds what particular wines we want for
                        dinner. I have an excellent champagne of course; but how about a light
                        Burgundy or a Rhine wine? I have an excellent Assmanshuser."
                    "I vote for the light Burgundy," I said.
                    "Done. I will speak to Dora now."
                    And while he went to instruct Dora, I went to look after all my belongings in
                        order to bring them finally together for my permanent departure. After a
                        delicious dinner and one of those comfortable, reminiscent talks that seem
                        naturally to follow the end of the day, I went early to bed.
                    
                    When the day came to sail I was really glad to be going home, although on the
                        way I had quarreled so much with my native land for the things which it
                        lacks and which Europe apparently has.
                    Our boasted democracy has resulted in little more than the privilege every
                        living, breathing American has of being rude and brutal to every other, but
                        it is not beyond possibility that sometime as a nation we will sober down
                        into something approximating human civility. Our early revolt against sham
                        civility has, in so far as I can see, resulted in nothing save the abolition
                        of all civilitywhich is sickening. Life, I am sure, will shame us out of it
                        eventually. We will find we do not get anywhere by it. And I blame it all on
                        the lawlessness of the men at the top. They have set the example which has
                        been most freely copied.
                    Still, I was glad to be going home.
                    When the time came the run from London to Folk-stone and Dover was pleasant
                        with its fleeting glimpses of the old castle at Rochester and the spires of
                        the cathedral at Canterbury, the English orchards, the slopes dotted with
                        sheep, the nestled chimneys and the occasional quaint, sagging roofs of
                        moss-tinted tiles. The conductor who had secured me a compartment to myself
                        appeared just after we left Folkstone to tell me not to bother about my
                        baggage, saying that I would surely find it all on the dock when I arrived
                        to take the boat. It was exactly as he said, though having come this way I
                        found two transfers necessary. Trust the English to be faithful. It is the
                        one reliable country in which you may travel. At Dover I meditated on how
                        thoroughly my European days were over and when, if ever, I should come
                        again. Life offers so much to see and the human span is so short that it is
                        a question whether it is advisable ever to go twice to the same placea
                        serious question.  If I had my choice, I
                        decidedas I stood and looked at the blue bay of DoverI would, if I could,
                        spend six months each year in the United States and then choose Paris as niy
                        other center and from there fare forth as I pleased.
                    After an hour's wait at Dover, the big liner dropped anchor in the
                        roadstead and presently the London passengers were put on board and we were
                        under way. The Harbor was lovely in a fading lightchalk-blue waters, tall
                        whitish cliffs, endless squealing, circling gulls, and a bugle calling from
                        the fort in the city.
                    Our ship's captain was a Christian Scientist, believing in the
                        nothingness of matter, the immanence of Spirit or a divine idea, yet he was,
                        as events proved, greatly distressed because of the perverse, undismissable
                        presence and hauntings of mortal thought. He had "beliefs"
                        concerning possible wrecks, fires, explosionsthe usual terrors of the deep,
                        and one of the ship's company (our deck-steward) told me that
                        whenever there was a fog he was always on the bridge, refusing to leave it
                        and that he was nervous and "as cross as hell." So you can
                        see how his religious belief squared with his chemical intuitions concerning
                        the facts of life. A nice, healthy, brisk, argumentative, contentious
                        individual he was, and very anxious to have the pretty women sit by him at
                        dinner.
                    The third day we were out news came by wireless that the Titanic had sunk after collision with an iceberg in mid-ocean. The
                        news had been given in confidence to a passenger. And this passenger had
                        "in confidence" told others. It was a terrible piece of
                        news, grim in its suggestion, and when it finally leaked out it sent a chill
                        over all on board. I heard it first at nine o'clock at night. A
                        party of us were seated in the smoking-room, 
                        a most comfortable retreat from the terrors of the night and the sea. A damp
                        wind had arisen, bringing with it the dreaded fog. Sometimes I think the
                        card room is sought because it suggests the sea less than any place else on
                        the ship. The great fog-horn began mooing like some vast Brobdingnagian
                        sea-cow wandering on endless watery pastures. The passengers were gathered
                        here now in groups where, played upon by scores of lights, served with
                        drinks and reacted upon, one by the moods of the others, a temperamental
                        combustion took place which served to dispel their gloom. Yet it was not
                        possible entirely to keep one's mind off the slowing down of the
                        ship, the grim moo of the horn, and the sound of long, swishing breakers
                        outside speaking of the immensity of the sea, its darkness, depth, and
                        terrors. Every now and then, I noticed, some one would rise and go outside
                        to contemplate, no doubt, the gloominess of it all. There is nothing more
                        unpromising to this little lamp, the body, than the dark, foggy waters of a
                        mid-night sea.
                    One of the passengers, a German, came up to our table with a troubled,
                        mysterious air. "I got sumpin' to tell you,
                        gentlemen," he said in a stage whisper, bending over us.
                        "You better come outside where the ladies can't
                        hear." (There were several in the room.) "I just been
                        talkin' to the wireless man upstairs."
                    We arose and followed him out on deck.
                    The German faced us, pale and trembling. "Gentlemen," he
                        said, "the captain 's given orders to keep it a secret
                        until we reach New York. But I got it straight from the wireless man: The
                            Titanic went down last night with nearly all on board.
                        Only eight hundred saved and two thousand drowned. She struck an iceberg off
                        Newfoundland. You, gentlemen, must promise me not to tell the
                        ladiesotherwise I shutt n't have told you.  I promised the man up-stairs. It might get him in
                        trouble."
                    We promised faithfully. And with one accord we went to the rail and looked
                        out into the blackness ahead. The swish of the sea could be heard and the
                        insistent moo of the fog-horn.
                    "And this is only Tuesday," suggested one. His face showed
                        a true concern. "We've got a week yet on the sea, the way
                        they will run now. And we have to go through that regionmaybe over the very
                        spot "
                    He took off his cap and scratched his hair in a foolish, thoughtful way. I
                        think we all began to talk at once, but no one listened. The terror of the
                        sea had come swiftly and directly home to all. I am satisfied that there was
                        not a man of all the company who heard without feeling a strange sensation.
                        To think of a ship as immense as the Titanic, new and
                        bright, sinking in endless fathoms of water. And the two thousand passengers
                        routed like rats from their berths only to float helplessly in miles of
                        water, praying and crying!
                    I went to my berth thinking of the pains and terrors of those doomed two
                        thousand, a great rage in my heart against the fortuity of lifethe dullness
                        or greed of man that prevents him from coping with it. For an hour or more I
                        listened to the vibration of the ship that trembled at times like a spent
                        animal as a great wave struck at it with smashing force.
                    It was a trying night.
                    I found by careful observation of those with me that I was not the only one
                        subject to disquieting thoughts. Mr. W., a Chicago beef man, pleased me
                        most, for he was so frank in admitting his inmost emotions. He was a
                        vigorous young buck, frank and straightforward. He came down to breakfast
                        the next morning looking a little dull. The sun was out and it was a fine
                        day.  "You know," he
                        confided genially, "I dreamed of them poor devils all night. Say
                        out in the cold there! And then those big waves kept hitting the ship and
                        waking me up. Did you hear that smash in the night? I thought we had struck
                        something. I got up once and looked out but that did n't cheer me
                        any. I could only see the top of a roller now and then going by."
                    Another evening, sitting in the deepest recesses of the card room he
                        explained that he believed in good and bad spirits and the good spirits
                        could help you "if they wanted to."
                    Monsieur G., a Belgian, doing business in New York, was nervous in a subdued,
                        quiet way. He never ceased commenting on the wretchedness of the
                        catastrophe, nor did he fail daily to consult the chart of miles made and
                        course traveled. He predicted that we would turn south before we neared the
                        Grand Banks because he did not believe the captain would "take a
                        chance." I am sure he told his wife and that she told every other
                        woman, for the next clay one of them confided to me that she knew, and that
                        she had been "stiff with fear" all the night before.
                    An Englishman, who was with us making for Calgary gave no sign, one way or
                        the other. The German who first brought us the news was like a man with a
                        mania; he talked of it all the time. An American judge on board talked
                        solemnly with all who would listen a hard crab of a man, whose emotions
                        found their vent in the business of extracting information. The women talked
                        to each other but pretended not to know.
                    It took three days of more or less pleasant sailing to relax the tension
                        which pervaded the whole vessel. The captain did not appear again at table
                        for four days. On Wednesday, following the Monday of the wreck, there was a
                        fire drill that ominous clanging of the fire-bell  on the forward deck which brought many troubled spectators out
                        of their staterooms and developed the fact that every piece of hose employed
                        was rotten; for every piece put under pressure burst a cheering exhibition!
                    But as the days passed we began to take heart again. The philosophers of the
                        company were unanimously agreed that as the Titanic had
                        suffered this great disaster through carelessness on the part of her
                        officers, no doubt our own chances of safely reaching shore were thereby
                        enhanced. We fell to gambling again, to flirting, to playing shuffle-board.
                        By Saturday, when we were passing in the vicinity of where the Titanic went down, only much farther to the south, our fears had
                        been practically dispelled.
                    It was not until we reached Sandy Hook the following Tuesday a hard, bright,
                        clear, blowy day, that we really got the full story. The customary pilot was
                        taken on there, out of a thrashing sea, his overcoat pockets bulging with
                        papers, all flaring with headlines describing the disaster. We crowded into
                        the smoking-room for the last time and devoured the news. Some broke down
                        and cried. Others clenched their fists and swore over the vivid and painful
                        pen pictures by eye witnesses and survivors. For a while we all forgot we
                        were nearly home. We came finally to quarantine. And I was amused to see how
                        in these last hours the rather vigorous ardors of ship-friendship that had
                        been engendered by the days spent together began to cool how all those on
                        board began to think of themselves no longer as members of a coordinated
                        ship company bound together for weal or woe on the bosom of the great deep,
                        but rather as individuals of widely separated communities and interests to
                        which they were now returning and which of necessity would sever their
                        relationship perpetually. I saw, for instance, the American judge who had
                        unbent  sufficiently after we had been three
                        days out to play cards with so humble a person as the commission merchant,
                        and others, begin to congeal again into his native judicial dignity. Several
                        of the young women who had been generally friendly now became quite remote
                        other worlds were calling them.
                    And all of this goodly company were so concerned now as to whether they could
                        make a very conservative estimate of the things they were bringing into
                        America and yet not be disturbed by the customs inspectors, that they were a
                        little amusing. What is honesty, anyhow? Foreign purchases to the value of
                        one hundred dollars were allowed; yet I venture to say that of all this
                        charming company, most of whom prided themselves on some form of virtue, few
                        made a strictly honest declaration. They were all as honest as they had to,
                        he as dishonest as they dared be no more. Poor pretending humanity! We all
                        lie so. We all believe such untrue things about ourselves and about others.
                        Life is literally compact of make-believe, illusion, temperamental bias,
                        false witness, affinity. The so-called standards of right, truth, justice,
                        law, are no more than the wire netting of a sieve through which the water of
                        life rushes almost uninterrupted. It seems to be regulated, but is it? Look
                        close. See for yourself. Christ said, "Eyes and they see not; ears
                        and they hear not." Is this not literally true? Begin with number
                        one. How about you and the so-called universal standards?
                    It had been so cold and raw down the bay that I could scarcely believe, as we
                        neared Manhattan Island that it was going to be so warm and springlike on
                        land as it proved. When we first sighted Long Island and later Long Beach it
                        was over a thrashing sea; the heads of the waves were being cut off by the
                        wind and sent flying into white spindrift or parti-colored rainbows.
                    
                    Even above Sandy Hook the wind made rainbows out of wave-tops and the bay had
                        a tumbled surface. It was good to see again the stately towers of the lower
                        city as we drew near that mountain of steel and stone cut with its narrow
                        canyons. They were just finishing the upper framework of the Woolworth
                        Building that first cathedral of the American religion of business and now
                        it reared its stately head high above everything else.
                    There was a great company at the dockside to receive us. Owing to the sinking
                        of the Titanic relatives were especially anxious and all
                        incoming ships were greeted with enlarged companies of grateful friends.
                        There were reporters on hand to ask questions as to the voyage had we
                        encountered any bodies, had we struck any ice?
                    When s finally stepped on the dock, gathered up my baggage, called a few
                        final farewells and took a taxi to upper Broadway, I really felt that I was
                        once more at home. New York was so suggestively rich to me, this spring
                        evening. It was so refreshing to look out and see the commonplace life of
                        Eighth Avenue, up which I sped, and the long cross streets and later upper
                        Broadway with its rush of cars, taxis, pedestrians. On Eighth Avenue negroes
                        were idling at curbs and corners, the Eighth Avenue type of shopkeeper
                        lolling in his door-way, boys and girls, men and women of a
                        none-too-comforting type, making the best of a humdrum and shabby existence.
                        In one's own land, born and raised among the conditions you are
                        observing, responsive to the subtlest modifications of speech, gesture,
                        expression, life takes on a fresh and intimate aspect which only your own
                        land can give after a trip abroad. I never quite realized until later this
                        same evening, strolling out along Broadway to pay a call, how much one
                        really loses abroad for want of blood affinity and years and years of
                        residence.  All the finer details, such as
                        through the magnifying glass of familiarity one gains at home, one loses
                        abroad. Only the main outlinesthe very roughest details stand revealed as in
                        a distant view of mountains. That is why generalizations, on so short an
                        acquaintance as a traveler must have, are so dangerous. Here, each sight and
                        sound was significant.
                    "And he says to me," said one little girl, strolling with
                        her picturesque companion on upper Broadway, "if you don't
                        do that, I 'm through."
                    "And what did you say?"
                    "Good night!!!"
                    I was sure, then, that I was really home!
                    
                
            
        
    
