
     ----CITATION---- 
        Eggleston, George Cary, 1839-1911. Two Gentlemen of Virginia: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2345
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                
                    "YOU AND I ARE FRIENDS. WE ARE TWO
                        GENTLEMEN OF VIRGINIA."Page 434.
                    
                
                
            
            
            
                
                    TWO GENTLEMEN OF VIRGINIA
                    A NOVEL OF THE OLD REGIME IN THE OLD DOMINION
                
                BY
                    GEORGE CARY EGGLESTON AUTHOR OF "DOROTHY SOUTH,"
                    "A CAROLINA CAVALIER," "THE MASTER OF WARLOCK,"
                    "EVELYN BYRD," "A DAUGHTER OF THE SOUTH," "BLIND
                    ALLEYS," "LOVE IS THE SUM OF IT ALL"
                
                    ILLUSTRATED BY FRANK T. MERRILL
                
                
                    BOSTON
                    LOTHROP, LEE & SHEPARD CO.
                
            
            
            
                Published, August, 1908
                COPYRIGHT, 1908, BY LOTHROP, LEE & SHEPHARD CO.
                
                
                    All Rights Reserved
                
                TWO GENTLEMEN OF VIRGINIA
                
                
                    Norwood Press
                     BERWICK & SMITH CO.
                     Norwood, Mass. U. S. A.
            
            
            
                TO THE MEMORY OF Chastain Cocke OF VIRGINIA
                WHOSE NOBILITY OF CHARACTER, GENEROSITY OF MIND, AND UP-RIGHTNESS OF LIFE WERE AN
                    INSPIRATION TO ME IN YOUTH, AND WHOSE PERSONALITY IS IMPERFECTLY SUGGESTED IN THAT OF COLONEL BUTLER
                    SHENSTONE 1 INSCRIBE THIS STORY OF THE OLD REGIME IN THE OLD DOMINION, WITH LOVE AND GRATITUDE.
            
            
            
                PREFACE
                In this novel I have endeavored to fulfil one of the chief functions of history in the modern
                    conception of historical writing.
                Incidentally to the telling of a love story, I have sought to present a faithful picture of the life
                    of the time and region of which I have written; to set forth its manners, habits and conditions with
                    accuracy and in detail; to portray the character of the people, to show what were their ideals and
                    their standards, and to present them as they were to readers of a later and far less picturesque
                    time.
                In aid of this purpose I have mentioned many details of custom and condition which may seem trivial
                    in themselves, but which are imperatively necessary to the verisimilitude of the picture.
                It is proper to add that I have written solely of things that I personally remember. As a youth I was
                    brought into that life from without.  I studied it in perspective, as
                    one bred in it could not have done. I lived it and loved it, and now, half a century later, I write
                    of it with admiration, if not always with approval.
                
                    GEORGE CARY EGGLESTON.
                         New York City, 1908.
                
            
            
            
                Illustrations
                
                    "YOU AND I ARE FRIENDS. WE ARE TWO GENTLEMEN OF
                            VIRGINIA." (Page 433) Frontispiece
                        
                    SHE SUDDENLY TURNED HER MARE ABOUT AND FACED HER ESCORT
                        60
                        
                    "HERE IS OUR PATENT OF VIRGINIA
                        NOBILITY" 102
                        
                    "TELL ME! IS UNCLE BUTLER VERY
                            ILL?" 150
                        
                    "YOUR VEHICLE STANDS READY FOR YOU. GO! GO!
                        GO!" 222
                        
                    "OH, UNCLE BUTLER! WHAT IS THE
                            MATTER?" 420
                        
                
            
        
        
            
            
                Two Gentlemen of Virginia
                
                    I
                    
                        A
                        BOUT eight o'clock on an evening in June of the year 1857, a very
                        noticeable young man entered the Exchange Hotel and Ballard House,the twin hotels that had
                        recently been connected by a crystal bridge spanning Franklin street, just east of the Capitol
                        Square, in Richmond, Virginia.
                    He had come from the railroad train in a cab, and his trunks and handbags, several in number,
                        were following him into the great office room of the hotel, on the willing backs of negro
                        porters who interpreted their number and "style" as a promise of generous tips
                        to come.
                    The young man bowed politely to the clerk, said "Good evening," in a low,
                        attractive but very resonant voice the voice of a man accustomed  to
                        make himself heard without effort and registered his name as 
                            "PHILIP SHENSTONE,"
                         and his residence as 
                            "THE WEST."
                        
                    
                    Before writing he carelessly tossed to one of the negro servitors the overcoat he had carried on
                        his arm. The negro interpreted the act as a promise. The carrying of any overcoat at all by a
                        traveler in Virginia in June was a thing of so rare occurrence in those days that it would of
                        itself have attracted the attention of the all-observant hotel clerk. But the quality and
                        fashioning of this particular overcoat were still more impressive upon the clerk's
                        mind. From the overcoat his quickly scrutinizing glance passed to the young man's other
                        garments. In an instant he had decided that this was altogether the best dressed gentleman who
                        had ever registered at that hotel during his period of service there. The young man's
                        costume was wholly unobtrusive, but the clerk observed that his garments were made of the very
                        finest fabrics he had ever seen, that they were exquisitely finished in every detail and  that there was absolute perfection in the way they fitted their
                        wearer unconscious, as he seemed to be even of their existence.
                    The clerk's first conclusion was that here was a man accustomed to wearing good clothes
                        and never thinking about them.
                    The effect was helped, perhaps, by the unusual symmetry of the young man's person. He
                        was a trifle under six feet in height, strong-limbed, broad-chested, straight-backed and of
                        easily upright carriage.
                    All these details the clerk took in at a glance, while Shenstone was writing in the register.
                    "I suppose you will want a room all to yourself," he said, admiringly, as he
                        turned the registry book around and read the name recorded.
                    It was customary at that time, even in very good hotels, to have two or three beds in each room,
                        and to assign two or three gentlemen to occupy them, except in those special cases in which a
                        guest with a fastidious preference for privacy and with money to waste, insisted upon paying
                        double and having an entire room to himself. Shenstone knew the custom and  was not surprised by the clerk's question. For answer he said:
                    "I should like two large rooms, adjoining and opening into each other. Please have one
                        bed placed in one of them, and fit the other up as a sitting room."
                    Observing the clerk's perplexity of look, and conjecturing correctly that the hotel had
                        no suites of the kind he wanted, he continued:
                    "Perhaps you have two parlors on your first floor that you could fit up in that way for
                        my use."
                    The clerk's first impulse was to suggest that such an arrangement would be rather
                        costly, but lightning-like reflection convinced him that with this guest it would be safer not
                        to volunteer suggestions of economy or of anything else. Philip Shenstone impressed him as a
                        gentleman who knew his own mind and was accustomed to manage his own affairs.
                    He gave hurried orders, therefore, for the sequestration of two of the public parlors and the
                        conversion of one of them into a bedroom and the other into a sitting room for Mr. Philip
                        Shenstone's use.
                    
                    When these orders were issued, the clerk turned again to Shenstone, with a note of interrogation
                        in his face, as if he meant to ask what more the gentleman might want. Philip answered the look:
                    "Sometime to-night whenever a belated train comes in from the South, a young lady and
                        her attendant a white woman will arrive at the hotel. I may be engaged at the time, as some
                        gentlemen are to call upon me, but when these two come the girl's name is Valorie Page
                        and her companion is Mademoiselle NathalieI desire to be informed of the fact, no matter who may
                        be with me. In the meanwhile I want you to reserve for them two of the very pleasantest rooms
                        you have in the house. They will probably remain for a day or two, and I wish them to be made as
                        comfortable as possible."
                    Declining the suggestion of supper, Shenstone asked to be shown to his rooms, if they were ready,
                        and to have all his baggage sent to them. A negro waiter conducted him up one flight of stairs
                        the elevator had not been invented at that time and with a half dollar  in his palm, the servitor took back to the office the request that any one who might
                        call upon Mr. Shenstone during the evening should be shown up to his rooms without announcement,
                        by card or otherwise.
                    Philip Shenstone's reason for giving this direction lay in a letter that had been placed
                        in his hand when he quitted the Fredericksburg train in Broad street, where the railway came to
                        a frazzled and unannounced end in the open street, without station, platform or any other
                        convenience for the reception or discharge of passengers. He had read the missive hurriedly in
                        the cab. When he sat down in his room he read it again, in the vain hope of making out what it
                        meant. It read: 
                            "My Dear Phil:I am not at Woodlands, as I hoped to be on your arrival, and I
                                shall not be there for several days to come. Make yourself and your ward as comfortable
                                as you can at the hotel. A friend of mine will call on you and explain.
                            "Your affectionate uncle, "BUTLER
                                    SHENSTONE."
                        
                    
                    The letter bore no date, and as it had been delivered by hand, there was no postmark or other
                        indication of whence it had come.
                    
                    This specially puzzled Phil Shenstone, for reasons. It had been many years since he had seen his
                        uncle, but he very distinctly remembered that gentleman's habits of precision, and
                        especially his almost passionate insistence upon the duty every letter writer owes to his
                        correspondent to indicate where and when each missive is written and whither the reply should be
                        sent. This was one among the many dogmas of gentlemanly conduct which Phil had often in his
                        youth heard his uncle Butler descant upon with almost extravagant emphasis.
                    An undated letter from Colonel Butler Shenstone seemed therefore so great an anomaly, that Phil
                        would have put it aside as certainly a forgery, if it had been possible to doubt its
                        genuineness. But the old gentleman's handwriting was peculiar in many ways and
                        especially in its print-like legibility a point upon which Colonel Shenstone insisted as a
                        requirement of morals.
                    "Nobody has a moral right," he used often to declaim, "to write
                        illegibly. The man who does so is a monster of selfishness. He spares  himself the small pains necessary to make his writing legible, and throws upon his
                        correspondent the burden of deciphering a careless scrawl. I tell you sir, no gentleman sends an illegible letter or even one difficult to read, to
                        anybody."
                    
                        Phil knew Colonel Shenstone's handwriting, and he knew that the puzzling
                            letter he held in his hand was genuine. But what did it mean?
                    
                    While he was debating that question in his mind there was a knock at his door, and a gentlemen
                        entered. He introduced himself as Major Charles Yerger, and Phil Shenstone at once remembered
                        him as the man who in his own youth had taught him how to shoot with rifle, shotgun and pistol,
                        until his skill, especially in wing-shooting at quails, was the talk of eastern Virginia. That
                        had been a dozen years or so ago, when Phil was a boy.
                    Major Yerger was as much pleased by the young man's recollection of him as if he had
                        been a school boy and Phil a high trustee of the school. But the Major was there upon important
                        business. After the greetings were  over he suddenly opened the
                        door, with an apologetic wave of the hand to Philip Shenstone, and, discovering a negro waiter
                        standing suspiciously near the entrance, handed the servitor half a dollar and bade him go to
                        the head of the stairs, some distance away, and keep watch there for a man in a white hat with a
                        plume in it.
                    "I trust you," he said, "to prevent any such man as that approaching
                        Captain Shenstone's door without warning. Watch the stairs, and if you don't
                        let the man pass you there'll be another half dollar for you when I come out of the
                        room. If you let him pass you I'll break your neck and throw you over the
                        balusters."
                    "Who is the man in the white hat?" Phil asked as Major Yerger closed the door.
                    "A figment of the imagination," answered the Major. "That negro was
                        listening at the door. He'll stand at the head of the stairs now and look for the white
                        hat. He hungers for that other half dollar, and he dreads the stairs, head foremost.
                    "Oh, I see," said Phil.
                
                
                
                    II
                    
                        M
                        INDFUL of Virginia customs, made familiar to him in his youth, Philip
                        Shenstone asked Major Yerger what he would have to drink.
                    "Nothing whatever," answered the Major. "I make it a rule to keep a
                        cool head and take no risks when engaged in conducting an affair of this kind. Pardon me, I
                        haven't explained. Your uncle is in trouble, and of course, in hiding. He sent me to
                        tell you about it."
                    "Do you mean " began the young man, but changing the form of reply he said:
                    "Tell me all about it, please."
                    "Well, it's a miserable business and I and the others have done our best to
                        stop it. There's a fellow out our way named Royal Vance, who has made quite a little
                        reputation for courage by fighting two or three pretty  safe duels
                        and challenging in a number of other cases which were easily arranged."
                    "A blowhard?" asked Shenstone, sententiously.
                    "Yes, of course. All aggressive duelists are that. I was one myself once, you know, and
                        I speak with authority. You laugh, but that's true. As I was about to say, your uncle
                        was counsel not long ago in a case against Vance. It was a bad case, involving a good deal of
                        shady behavior on Vance's part. You know how your uncle regards that sort of thing, and
                        how bitter a tongue he has in his head when his sense of honor is affronted. You can imagine the
                        vitriol he put into his speech to the jury. He won his case hands down, but Vance has been
                        pursuing him ever since and at last has found an excuse for challenging him."
                    "But Colonel Shenstone must be nearly or quite seventy years of age."
                    "Yes, I know. But he peremptorily forbids us to plead his age or the fact that his
                        vision is so badly impaired that he can hardly tell at twenty paces whether a barn door is  open or shut. He accepted the challenge, and tied our hands
                        completely by his refusal to let us urge the facts. 'I'm young enough to have
                        flayed Vance in a speech,' he said to us, 'and so I'm not too old to
                        give him satisfaction if he wants it.'"
                    "Who is 'us?'" asked Phil.
                    "How do you mean?"
                    "Who is acting with you in his behalf?"
                    "A young man named Wingfield,an ex-army officer, who recently inherited a plantation.
                        He's the second. I'm under peace bonds just now, because of another affair,
                        and can't act except as a friend trying to make peace."
                    "Would Mr. Wingfield mind letting me take his place as second? As my uncle's
                        kinsman"
                    "Nothing could be simpler. You were not within reach when the challenge was received.
                        You have since arrived. It is obviously both your right and your duty to become your
                        kinsman's second. I'll arrange that. Fortunately the affair doesn't
                        come off till day after tomorrow morning. Your uncle, you know, has  a number of trust estates in his hands, and in the interests of innocent persons, we claimed
                        for him time in which to transfer his responsibilities. Vance's seconds, who are
                        strangers to me, acted very well in that matter, though Vance himself objected."
                    "Bloodthirsty, eh?"
                    "Within the bounds of reasonable safety, yes"
                    "I think I understand. I always like to understand. I used to be a pilot on the
                        Mississippi, you know, and I always make it a rule to know a stream before I navigate it. In
                        this case I see a straight reach of open river ahead, and I'm ready to take the wheel.
                        Have me made my uncle's chief second; ask Mr. Wingfield to be my adviser, and let me
                        know when and where to meet the persons concerned."
                    "I suppose it will be pistols at ten paces,the usual thing?"
                    "No, Double-barreled shotguns, charged with three chambers of number one buckshot
                        distance, twenty paces."
                    "That is unusual."
                    "The whole thing is unusual. It is very  unusual for a
                        comparatively young man in vigorous health to force a duel upon a gentleman of seventy, who is
                        practically blind. I have it in mind to do something in this case for the discouragement of that
                        sort of dueling. Send me word where and when I am to meet Mr. Vance's representatives.
                        I will await the summons here. I suppose it won't be long?"
                    "Not before to-morrow "morning. There's no hurry, as the meeting is
                        set for the next morning."
                    With that the Major took his leave, meditating in his mind:
                    "Wonder what the boy is up to? If he were the principal instead of the second, I
                        shouldn't envy the man standing twenty paces away. Why, I've seen that fellow
                        fill a bag with quails shot on the wing with a rifle. With a shotgun at twenty paces, great
                        Csar's ghost wouldn't have a better chance than an egg shell under a trip
                        hammer. But his uncle can't see. Wonder what he's up to anyhow."
                
                
                
                    III
                    
                        N
                        O sooner had Major Yerger left the hotel than word came to young Shenstone
                        that the girl, Valorie Page, and her maid, nurse or chaperone whatever the attendant might be
                        called had arrived, and had gone to their rooms.
                    Under ordinary circumstances Phil Shenstone would have had them remain there, and see him later.
                        As he could not know how early in the morning he might be summoned away to meet the seconds of
                        his uncle's adversary, he directed that the creole woman and her charge should be sent
                        to his parlor at once.
                    He knew Nathalie well. He had had dealings with her. She was even now in his pay. But he had
                        never before seen Valorie Page, and her appearance greatly astonished him.
                    He had thought of her as a mere child a little girl. He was astonished to find her a  well grown girl of seventeen or even older, perhaps, disguised in
                        the short frock of a child. She was slender, straight, rather tall, and distinctly handsome,
                        rather than pretty. She carried herself with a dignity which impressed Shenstone as imitative.
                    "She learned that from the Mother Superior, I imagine," he reflected,
                        "and it is more impressive in a girl of her age than in an older woman. It gives her a
                        marked distinction. But how badly dressed she is! I say, Nathalie, has Miss Page no well, no
                        more suitable clothes than those she is wearing? What is in her
                        trunks?"
                    "If it please you, sir, she has no trunks. You know she left the convent "
                    "Yes, I know, hurriedly. I quite understand. We must remedy that. We shall remain in
                        this hotel for a day or two. Is your room comfortable, Valorie? Because if it isn't
                        "
                    "Very comfortable indeed, Monsieur Mr. Shenstone, I should say. Indeed comfortable,
                        very."
                    "All right then. Can you be contented  in this hotel for a
                        day or two, if you have plenty to do? I shall be detained here for a little time, and very busy.
                        Nathalie shall send for dressmakers and you and she can occupy yourselves in the making of some
                        new gowns while I'm busy. I suppose there'll be well, other things, Nathalie,
                        besides gowns. Bless my soul, I don't know what, but you do, and you're to get
                        them. Have everything you buy sent to the hotel and everything will be paid for at the office.
                        I'll arrange that. Take a carriage when you go shopping and "
                    He hesitated a moment, looking with masculine uncertainty at the girl's exceedingly
                        brief skirts and the generally insufficient character of her costume.
                    "Couldn't you hang a lambrequin or something to the bottom of her skirt and let
                        her go with you? She'd enjoy picking out things, but I must say"
                    He hesitated again, fearful of hurting the girl's feelings.
                    "I have a gown of my own," answered Nathalie, "which I can alter
                        to-night into a sufficient shopping costume for Miss Valorie.  I
                        shall have it quite ready by the morning and we will go together to the shops. How much money
                        shall we spend, Mr. Shenstone?"
                    "How on earth do I know? That's your business. You are to upholster the girl
                        properly, so that she may be presentable when I take her to Woodlands. I don't know
                        what you ought to pay for lace or bombazine, or how many hats and shoes and corsets and night
                        gowns she ought to have. You do, or you ought to. Fit her out well.
                        That's all the instruction I can give you. Now then, Valorie, sit down," for
                        the girl was still standing like a child who had been summoned to the presence of her school
                        principal to answer for some fault. "Sit down and let's get acquainted. Tell
                        me what you had for supper."
                    "We haven't had any supper," she replied, simply. "The train
                        was late and when we got to the eating house station supper was over."
                    In that time of primitive railroading no such thing as a dining car had ever been thought of, and
                        the chief purpose of a "refreshment station," was to make the passenger  pay the most that could be extorted from him for the least and the
                        worst food he could be compelled by adverse circumstances to accept.
                    Shenstone wasted no time in bewailing the hungry plight of the girl or declaiming against travel
                        conditions that no complaint could cure. He rose and pulled the bell cord, stretching his person
                        over the piano to get at it. Electric bells were not in use at that time, and bell cords were
                        usually hung in the most inaccessible places. When the bell boy appeared Shenstone ordered
                        supper served for three in his rooms immediately. The boy objected that the kitchen and dining
                        room were closed for the night.
                    "Call a cab then, and inquire at the office where the best restaurant in Richmond is. Be
                        quick."
                    Then looking again at the long, exposed legs of the girl, he turned to Nathalie and asked:
                    "Have you any sort of cloak or wrap or mantilla something long at the bottom you know
                        which Miss Valorie might wear? We're going to Zetelle's for supper."
                        He  perfectly knew that Zetelle's was the best restaurant
                        in town, and his instruction to the bell boy as to inquiries on that subject, had been prompted
                        only by the fact that the boy had stared at the girl's exposed shanks in an impertinent
                        way. He had felt it necessary either to send the boy out of the room on an errand of business,
                        or else to kick him out with a degree of violence, which might cause disturbance in the
                        corridors. Shenstone remembered that he was occupying parlors on the first floor, and that there
                        were other parlors round about.
                    At Zetelle's the girl was far less shy than she had been at the hotel, perhaps, because
                        Nathalie's wraps, which she kept closely coiled about her knees, spared her
                        self-consciousness.
                    To Nathalie she usually spoke in French after discovering that Shenstone understood that language
                        fairly well. To Shenstone she spoke only in English.
                    Her English had, now and then, not an accent exactly, but a suggestion of foreignness, chiefly in
                        her choice and arrangement of words. Her French was as perfect as if she had learned it in Paris
                        salons.
                    
                    She was very weary after her journey, but she bravely rallied under the influence of supper, and
                        before the party had returned to the hotel she had so far taken Shenstone into her confidence as
                        to tell him, in childlike confidence, that she "liked him very, very
                        much."
                
                
                
                    IV
                    
                        I
                        T was ten o'clock the next morning when Philip Shenstone, with Major
                        Yerger and Captain Wingfield for his supporters, met the seconds of the challenger, Vance. In
                        fact, they met to plan a duel. Ostensibly they met to prevent a duel by securing some amicable
                        adjustment of the "misunderstanding."
                    All parties were agreed that if possible the duel should give place to an
                        "arrangement," all parties, that is to say, except Philip Shenstone, and even
                        he favored an "arrangement," if one could be made upon proper terms.
                    "What is your idea of proper terms?" asked Vance's second.
                    "That Mr. Vance shall withdraw his challenge, on the ground that the severe words spoken
                        by Colonel Shenstone were spoken in the execution of his duty as counsel in a case at  bar, and that for words so spoken he is not liable to be called to
                        account in any other place. Let me add that we justify also; that we contend that the words
                        spoken by Colonel Shenstone, including the charge that Vance forged or secured some one else to
                        forge the note upon which he sued, are true."
                    "But, my dear Captain Shenstone," interposed Vance's second,
                        "you must see that no such concession is possible, and that if you insist upon it, the
                        hostile meeting must take place."
                    "I quite understand that," answered Phil Shenstone. "I mean that the
                        hostile meeting shall take place. Let me explain myself. We are forbidden by Colonel Shenstone
                        to plead his age or his impaired vision or any other disability on his part. But your principal
                        knew of these disabilities from the first, and, coward that he is, he forced this duel upon an
                        old man who cannot see. In the language of a game that I have often observed on the Mississippi
                        river, I have decided to 'call his bluff.' Under the code, if a principal in a
                        duel refuses, or otherwise fails to come to the  scratch, his
                        second is bound to take his place. That obligation of the second carries a privilege with it.
                        There are two well established precedents in the history of Virginia dueling for contending that
                        at any time when he shall think it proper the second may take his principal's place,
                        and that the principal, having placed his honor in the keeping of his second, has no right or
                        privilege of interfering."
                    "Just what do you mean?"
                    "I mean that when Mr. Vance and Colonel Shenstone meet to-morrow morning with
                        double-barreled shotguns at twenty paces, I, who can see and who can shoot, intend to take my
                        principal's place, no matter how many objections he may offer. As his second, to whose
                        care he has committed his honor, I claim the right to stand in his stead, so that Virginia may
                        be spared the spectacle of a young man who can see to shoot, killing a half blind old man who
                        can see scarcely at all. That is my plan, gentlemen."
                    Instantly the representatives of the challenger asked leave to withdraw for consideration and for
                        consultation with their principal.  Phil Shenstone's skill
                        as a wing shot, who fired from the hip without waiting to bring his piece to his shoulder, had
                        not been forgotten in Virginia, and Vance's seconds recognized it as a factor in the
                        situation. When they withdrew, Shenstone lighted a cigar and set about polishing his finger
                        nails while awaiting their return.
                    An hour later they came back.
                    "Mr. Vance declines your proposal that you shall take your principal's
                        place," they reported, "on the sufficient ground that he has no cause of
                        quarrel with you."
                    "Mr. Vance's notion of what constitutes a cause of quarrel seems to me to be
                        peculiarly deficient in clearness. In my remarks to you I have characterized him as a coward who
                        seeks to commit murder under the pretense of honorable personal war. As that assertion of mine
                        seems insufficient to irritate his mind. I beg to add that I now adopt the charge made against
                        him by Colonel Shenstone, and make it my own. I charge him with forgery. If, upon consultation
                        with your principal, you find that some further provocation is necessary, I  suggest that you shall bring him into my presence, and permit me to give him an
                        unmistakable cause of quarrel by slapping his jaws with my gloves or with my open palm,
                        whichever he may think most effective."
                    He paused and the others stood aghast and bewildered by his resoluteness. After a moment he
                        added:
                    "Gentlemen, I am very sorry indeed to place you in an embarrassing position, but the
                        fault is your principal's and not mine. When you consented to serve him, as his
                        seconds, I am quite ready to believe, you did not realize that he is a coward, who has sought
                        reputation and safety by forcing a fight upon an elderly gentleman who cannot see to shoot. I am
                        in no way responsible for the situation in which he has placed himself and you. But that
                        situation is this: He must meet me tomorrow morning at sunrise, with double-barreled shotguns,
                        loaded with three chambers of number one buckshot to the barrel, or he must withdraw his
                        challenge to Colonel Shenstone, and leave me to take any further proceedings I may deem
                        proper."
                    
                    Vance's seconds again withdrew for consultation with their principal. Half an hour later
                        they returned and asked if Colonel Shenstone would withdraw the more offensive words used in his
                        speech.
                    "No," answered Philip. "Colonel Shenstone has no apologies and no
                        withdrawals to make. What is the use of wasting time, gentlemen? This thing has fined itself
                        down to the question whether or not your principal will meet me, as Colonel Shenstone's
                        second, taking his place, with shotguns at twenty paces, or will withdraw his challenge. There
                        is no other issue, and, as Colonel Shenstone's second I give notice that I will
                        consider no proposal to alter the issue."
                    Again the seconds withdrew. Presently they returned in a mood of profound disgust and
                        indignation. Vance had allowed himself to be arrested as a man contemplating a duel. As matters
                        then existed in Virginia, that meant that Vance had deliberately secured his own arrest as a
                        convenient way of escaping from the duel he had sought and from which he shrank because of Phil
                        Shenstone's substitution  of himself for his uncle in the
                        character of the man who was to do the shooting. No other explanation was possible. It was not
                        considered "good form" in Virginia, at that time, for the officers of the law
                        to succeed in finding anybody engaged in a duel, so long as he kept himself, even nominally, in
                        hiding.
                    The gentlemen who had been acting for Vance, fully recognized the situation.
                    "If you demand a meeting," they said, "of course we hold ourselves
                        bound to take the place of our recalcitrant principal."
                    "Thank you for the courtesy, gentlemen," answered Shenstone. "I
                        recognize your position and honor your readiness to fulfill a disagreeable duty. But I have no
                        demand to make of you."
                    "Let me offer you my hand, Captain Shenstone," said the late second of Vance,
                        "and permit me to hope that we shall meet many times hereafter under pleasanter
                        conditions than those which have brought us together upon the present occasion. Of course, we
                        must now present ourselves before a committing magistrate."
                    
                    "What for?" asked Shenstone.
                    "Simply to be examined, to decline to answer any questions put to us, and to be
                        discharged. It would be the same if the duel had actually occurred and you had taken a wing shot
                        at well at the man we have repudiated. You may or may not understand it, Captain, but the law of
                        Virginia with regard to dueling has been carefully framed to forbid duels, but at the same time
                        to render it impossible to punish anybody for doing the thing forbidden. The law makes dueling a
                        crime, but in an excess of virtuous condemnation it holds everybody a criminal who has anything
                        to do with a duel, or who knows anything about it, and doesn't succeed in preventing
                        it. But as every possible witness in such a case is excused from testifying on the ground that
                        his testimony might incriminate himself, of course it is impossible utterly, hopelessly
                        impossible to establish the fact that anything like a duel was ever so much as contemplated. But
                        we must go through the forms, you know."
                    "I see. It reminds me of the old days in  Louisville. There
                        was a Sabbath Day Enforcement League in that city. It demanded an ordinance closing all shops on
                        Sunday. The city government won the favor of the leaguers by passing a very stringent ordinance
                        to that effect, and then pleased the other fellows by utterly neglecting to enforce it. Do you
                        like a good cigar? I think you'll find one of these acceptable."
                
                
                
                    V
                    
                        O
                        N returning to his hotel, Phil Shenstone found a note from his uncle awaiting
                        him.
                    "My Dear Phil," it read. "I cannot at all approve the course you have
                        pursued in this Vance matter. It seems to me to have been at the least impertinent. But as all
                        my advisers assure me that you acted in strict accordance with the code, and warn me that if I
                        enter the smallest objection or in any way criticise your conduct I shall be deemed an outlaw, I
                        can only say that I submit as reluctantly as may be possible under the rules that govern the
                        conduct of honorable gentlemen in such circumstances.
                    "Now when are you coming to Woodlands with the young lady you have in charge? Or, to
                        speak more accurately, at what time shall I send the Woodlands carriage to the hotel to  fetch you and the young lady? For, of course, she must come to us
                        in the Woodlands carriage. As for you, you are under as much of censure and displeasure on my
                        part as the code permits, but your old familiar room is at your service, and your Aunt Mary has
                        come over to Woodlands for a few days to receive the young lady.
                    "I am so sorely displeased with you that if you can make yourself and your charge
                        comfortable at the hotel for another twenty-four hours, it will be agreeable to me. I want a
                        little time in which to forgive you. But send me a line to Woodlands by my messenger, who has
                        instructions to await your reply, and I will send the carriage at such time as you shall fix
                        upon."
                    Philip Shenstone's face broke into a broad smile, as he read the communication.
                    "We are two gentlemen of Virginia," he reflected. "One of us is old
                        and the other young. We look at things with different eyes. But the young man sees more clearly
                        than the old one does. Still the old gentleman is entitled to his feeling in the
                        matter."
                    
                    "My dear uncle," he wrote. "Doubtless you are quite right in what you
                        say of my impertinence. But it is the privilege of youth to be impertinent. I remember how it
                        was when you caught me stealing watermelons from your Hawe Branch patch, when I was a boy. You
                        denounced me as an impertinent young poacher, but you called my attention to the fact that all
                        the really ripe watermelons were on the other side of the patch, and in kindly, generous spirit,
                        you went away leaving me free to profit by your instruction.
                    "Now I want to explain the impertinence that prompted me to interfere as I did with your
                        duel. I hate dueling. I detest it. I regard it as a relic of barbarism. I see clearly that it
                        survives in Virginia simply because a set of cowardly braggarts think to win a maximum of
                        reputation for chivalric courage at a minimum risk of personal safety. They challenge old men or
                        men who are practically blind, and they fight with pistols that couldn't hit anybody if
                        they tried. A dozen years ago, when I was a boy with an inquiring mind, I investigated this
                        thing. I tested a dozen pairs  of dueling pistols, by fixing them
                        in a vise and firing them point-blank. I found, in every single instance that their sights were
                        carefully so adjusted as to miss the man they were aimed at. When I found Vance trying to get a
                        little reputation for courage by fighting a half-blind man like you, I decided that one of two
                        things should happen; either he should back out, or he should receive a charge of buckshot
                        through his diaphragm.
                    "He chose the wiser and safer course. Virginia is well rid of him, as a swashbuckler. I
                        tell you, uncle mine, it only needs that a few of us shall render dueling dangerous in order to
                        abolish it in Virginia. I shall probably remain here for a time and I shall always stand ready
                        to come back upon summons. But my terms are double-barreled shotguns, loaded with three chambers
                        of number one buckshot to the barrel. I do not anticipate any challenges.
                    "So much for impertinence. Now for the young girl. I find she is not properly clothed. I
                        have directed her attendant to provide proper garments for her. She tells me that all will be
                             ready on Thursday morning. If you will order the carriage to
                        be here at that time, Valorie and I will drive out to Woodlands, and, if you receive Valorie
                        tenderly, you shall be free to denounce me and my impertinence in any terms that your eloquence
                        may suggest. But I give you fair warning that the next swashbuckler who tries to force a duel
                        upon you, will have to face me at twenty paces with shotguns, or well or take the consequences
                        whenever he and I meet. Let us dismiss all this. My ward seems a sensitive creature, and I am
                        anxious that she shall be happy at Woodlands. I hope you will receive her cordially in spite of
                        my inability to explain to you precisely who she is, whence she comes and why. I make myself
                        sponsor for her, absolutely, and without reserve of any sort. She is a young gentlewoman, and
                        must be received as such in the society round about Woodlands, or I shall inquire why, with a
                        corkscrew.
                    "We shall expect the Woodlands carriage on Thursday morning. But if you or Aunt Mary, or
                        anybody else, have or has the slightest hesitation about receiving Valorie Page as  an honored guest, I beg you to let me know. In that event you and
                        they shall not be troubled. But I do not doubt that I know your chivalry and Aunt
                        Mary's tender affectionateness too well for that. Please tell Aunt Mary, with my love,
                        that I think it very good in her to leave home and go over to Woodlands to receive my ward. I am
                        sure she will feel repaid when she meets Valorie and finds out how dear a child she is. As for
                        you, I look to see you and Valorie sweethearting within forty-eight hours after you
                        meet."
                
                
                
                    VI
                    
                        W
                        HEN Valorie presented herself at dinner that afternoon in a new gown simple,
                        becoming and therefore beautiful she seemed a different person from the shy girl whom Shenstone
                        had summoned to his presence on the former occasion. She was still shrinkingly modest, but her
                        modesty was dignified and it had no touch of shame in it. She was gowned as a young woman now,
                        and she had no occasion to stoop as she had done before in order to make her dress cover her
                        shanks.
                    "You'll do," Shenstone thought to himself, "and if that old
                        uncle of mine doesn't fall in love with you, I'll fall in love with you
                        myself."
                    He paid Nathalie the sum he had agreed to pay her, giving it to her in gold, for the reason that
                        in that barbaric time every state  in the Union had its own wildcat
                        currency, which in other states varied so greatly in its comparative worthlessness, that every
                        merchant had to keep a "Bank Note Detector" always at hand. Only the notes of
                        the Northern Bank of Kentucky and those of the Suffolk banks of Massachusetts passed at par in
                        all the states.
                    After Nathalie had gone by a very early train, the Woodlands carriage came. It was a vehicle of
                        antique construction, hung so high upon leathern springs that a folding flight of steps was
                        needed on either side for descent to the ground.
                    The journey to Woodlands was one of many miles. The roads were earthen tracks, smooth now that it
                        was June, and bordered in every part with that luxuriance of vegetation which makes the mere
                        process of living a delight in the Virginian summer time. Here the road ran through woodlands,
                        thickly bordered with flowering shrubs; presently it emerged from the forest glades into a space
                        where wheat-fields, whitening to the harvest, gave welcome with their flaunting promise of
                        plenty; then  deflecting a little to the right or left, it passed
                        between fields of lushly luxuriant cornstalks, a dozen feet or so in height, bending under a
                        burden of slowly forming ears, and spreading their sword-like blades so thickly that he who
                        would pass among them on such a morning as this must reconcile himself to a drenching with dew.
                        Here and there were antique rail fences bordering the roadway fences buried in climbing vines,
                        clematis, blackberry bushes, and the beautiful but noxious creeper known in Virginia as
                        "poison oak," elsewhere as "poison ivy," though it is
                        neither oak nor ivy, a growth at once as beautiful and as dangerous as the "strange
                        woman" against whom Solomon gave warning to all ages.
                    Valorie paid small heed to the city streets or the city sights as the carriage was driven away
                        from the hotel, though her companion sought to interest her in them. She was politely impervious
                        to city interests. Had she not seen New Orleans in all the glory of its strange sub-tropical,
                        half-foreign, half-native, and altogether impressive magnificence? What had Richmond to show to
                        eyes like hers,  accustomed to far nobler sights? But when the
                        carriage quitted the city streets and passed on into the glory of the country, she became
                        enthusiastic. She stretched her neck out of one window and then out of the other, and presently
                        she said:
                    "Oh, I am missing so much of it! If I look at one side of the road the other escapes me.
                        Why isn't it an open carriage?"
                    Shenstone signaled the driver to stop. Then opening the carriage door and letting down the steps,
                        he beckoned the girl to alight.
                    "I'll drive," he said to the coachman. "Take your stand on
                        the trunk-plate behind. The young lady will ride by my side on the box."
                    With that he helped her to climb to the high perch, and himself took the whip and the reins.
                    Valorie was in ecstasies. She had never seen the country before. She had never before smelled the
                        odors of the woodlands and the fields. She had never traversed a Virginia road in June. She had
                            never lived, as she said to her companion, until now. In her eagerness to
                        grasp all of joy that the roadsides  offered, she was half a dozen
                        times in imminent danger of tumbling off the box, and Shenstone found it necessary now and then
                        to pass his arm round her waist by way of restraining her. He did not seem to mind that. Many
                        times he reined in the horses and let her climb down from her high perch to gather particularly
                        alluring clusters of wild flowers. To them, rather than to Shenstone, she talked. They seemed
                        alive to her and to be a part of the glorious June morning. She addressed them as if they had
                        been sentient and responsive. She told them of her joy in the perfect day. She promised them
                        water and tender care at Woodlands. She entreated them to forgive her for plucking them, and to
                        love her as she reminded them that the birds, singing all about, manifestly did.
                    In brief the girl half child, half woman, and altogether bewitching behaved in a fashion that
                        fascinated Phil Shenstone, robbed him of his accustomed reason and left him, as he said in later
                        and soberer moments, "a bewildered idiot."
                    Sometimes, when the girl had climbed down  from the box and had
                        secured a particularly beautiful bunch of wild flowers, she would dance a little in delight upon
                        the grass by the roadside. Shenstone was old enough and young enough to observe that her dancing
                        was that of one skilled in the art, but still possessed of spontaneity. It was at once the
                        dancing of an accomplished mistress of the art, and the dancing of a free-hearted child.
                    Phil Shenstone had been uncertain as to the duration of his stay in Virginia whether it should be
                        for three days or possibly three weeks. During Valorie's second or third dancing
                        exhibition, he decided that it should continue for three months at least. When he announced this
                        determination to Valorie, she opened wide her great blue eyes, and said:
                    "I don't understand how you can ever think of leaving an enchanted land like
                        this."
                    Shenstone knew of old the way to Woodlands, and he knew the rigidity of his aunt's
                        insistence upon the proprieties. So when a gate was passed, a mile distant from the house
                        grounds, he halted the carriage, placed himself and Valorie again within it, and gave the  driver what that benighted believer in antique nomenclatures
                        called "eighteen pence" in other words a quarter of a dollar by way of hush
                        money as to the wild outside ride.
                    Then in decorous state the vehicle threaded its way through the pine and hickory forest to the
                        hereditary home of all the Shenstones Woodlands.
                
                
                
                    VII
                    
                        I
                        T was Colonel Shenstone's habit to rise with the earliest dawn, to
                        visit his stables, see his mules fed and curried, ride out to the fields to give orders for the
                        day's plantation work, and then return to the house half an hour or so before the nine
                        o'clock breakfast.
                    On the second or third morning of Valorie's residence at Woodlands, the old gentleman
                        was astonished to find her waiting for him when he came out of his chamber a little after five
                        o'clock, smoothly shaven and clad in the immaculate suit of white duck, which he always
                        wore in summer when it did not rain.
                    "I want to see everything, Uncle Butler," she said, explainingly.
                        "I'm going to call you Uncle Butler, if I may. May I?"
                    The old gentleman, with the gallantry of generations focused in his being, threw his arm about
                        her, drew her lithe form to him,  kissed her on the forehead, and
                        answered:
                    "You are to call me by any name you please, if only you speak it gently and as if it had
                        an affectionate significance to you. But what the deuce, you little minx, are you doing out of
                        your bed at this unholy hour of the morning?"
                    "What does 'Little Minx' mean, Uncle Butler? Never mind about
                        explaining it, because your tone tells me it isn't anything very bad. Besides you asked
                        me a question. I'm up at what you call this unholy hour in the morning, because I like
                        to be up. Let me tell you, Uncle Butler, I was never free in my life till now. I never did as I
                        pleased till now. I was never in the country till two or three days ago, and when the daylight
                        peeped into my windows this morning, I said to myself: 'Get up, you lazy girl, and
                        revel in it all.' That's why I'm here. But I didn't expect
                        to find you in the porch, I only thought I'd get up and go out and smell things that
                        are sweet, and breathe the fresh country air, and maybe, steal a few cherries from the tree I
                        saw from my window."
                    
                    "Here, boy!" said the Colonel to a passing negro lad. "Are your hands
                        clean? Go and wash them anyhow. Then go to the ox-heart cherry trees behind the house and bring
                        your Miss Valorie a lot of cherries. Those you saw from your window, Little Minx, are morollos,
                        as sour as vinegar, and not worth stealing. Jack will steal some better ones for you. But
                        I'm going to the stables to see the mules fed and curried. So I must leave
                        you."
                    "May I not go with you?" she asked pleadingly.
                    "But you'll miss your cherries."
                    "That's unfortunate," the girl responded, regretfully, "but I
                        like you so much better than the cherries. Besides, maybe, I'd get my feet wet going
                        with you, and I do so want to get my feet wet with the dew. I'll go with you,
                        Uncle."
                    Colonel Shenstone hailed another passing negro boy and said:
                    "Stay right here till Jack comes with the cherries I sent him after, and tell him to
                        bring them to the stables, do you hear?"
                    "But I'se got to help "
                    
                    "Never mind what you've got to help. Do as I tell you."
                    The boy's face clouded. "Ef I don't git out to de milkin' pen
                        'fore Mammy tackles de crazy cow, Mammy'll lick me fo'
                        sho'."
                    "Tell her not to. You do what I tell you. Oh, never mind; here comes Jack with the
                        cherries. Hustle to the cowpens and don't get licked."
                    Jack's notions as to what constituted a proper supply of cherries for a young lady, were
                        based upon his own capacity for consuming that fruit. He brought at least two quarts of the
                        cherries for Valorie's consumption, having himself swallowed at least three quarts
                        during the process of picking them. Ordinarily he was forbidden to invade these trees. He had
                        eaten his share, stones and all, under the fixed negro delusion that cherries can never produce
                        an intestinal disturbance if their seeds be swallowed with them. If he had dared he would have
                        communicated this bit of physiological lore to Valorie, when he saw her rejecting the stones of
                        her cherries. But he had nous enough to suspect that his  master would resent the impertinence in some way troublesome to himself. So he
                        philosophically reflected, as he saw the girl eating the fruit and throwing the stones away,
                        "tain't none o' my business ef she gits a colic for her
                        foolishness."
                    The Colonel ate half a dozen of the cherries no more. He had taken a cup of coffee very bad
                        coffee he thought and it was not his habit to take anything else until the nine o'clock
                        breakfast hour. But somehow, this "little minx" had bewitched him, and he
                        accepted a part of the fruit at her hands. The rest she distributed to the stable boys who
                        instantly decided that "the new little miss is a thoroughbred."
                    Presently the Colonel was seized with an idea, and he whispered it into Valorie's ear.
                    "I say, can you ride? "he asked.
                    "A little," she responded. "I had what they call
                        'lessons' while I was in the convent. You see it was thought " she
                        broke off the sentence in consternation.
                    "Never mind what was thought," answered the Colonel, gallantly. "If
                        you ever sat upon  a horse at all, you can ride a pacing mare of
                        mine. Robert, bring out Zephyr and put a side-saddle on her. Phil is still asleep, the lazy
                        fellow, and you and I, Valorie, are going to have a ride all by ourselves. Zephyr is the
                        best-behaved of mares, and "
                    "She's jest a little fractious this mornin'," interposed
                        Robert, the groom. "She's been stabled too long."
                    "Never mind. We'll manage her. Bring her out and saddle her."
                    "Yes," interposed the girl, who really knew more of riding than her modesty
                        permitted her to say, and who had in abundant measure that highest quality of the horsewoman,
                        perfect fearlessness," Yes, bring her out and I'll ride her. Uncle Butler, I
                        feel as if I could ride a hurricane or an earthquake or a cataclysm I don't know what
                        that last word means on so glorious a morning as this."
                    The Colonel looked at her, and this time he said out loud what he had before said to himself:
                    "You'll do!"
                
                
                
                    VII
                    
                        F
                        OR the first time in his life Col. Shenstone was late that morning to
                        breakfast. The "little minx" was responsible, though the Colonel gallantly
                        took all the blame upon himself. He had been slow and clumsy, he said, in explaining why he
                        topped and primed tobacco so that each plant should bear eight leaves and no more. He had
                        needlessly wasted time in the cornfields, showing his companion how he grew watermelons there
                        that might be good when those in the uplands patch were too dry and those in the lowlands too
                        wet. He had unpardonably detained her at the gate where Haley was distributing corn to three or
                        four hundred razorback hogs. Really Haley was such a character that he had felt bound to make
                        Valorie acquainted with him. And then he had been obliged to explain to the young lady the
                        process of driving  flocks of turkeys through the tobacco lots, to
                        pick off the grasshoppers. On the whole, the Colonel felt that he was to be excused.
                    "And what's the difference, Little Minx?" he called out. "The
                        cold ham is here. If the beaten biscuits are cold, we've the consolation of knowing
                        that there's another skilletful in the kitchen. The hot bread is passed, of course, but
                        I see that Phil has so far remembered his manners as to slice and butter the French roll. You
                        and I have issued a new Declaration of Independence. Kizzie, the cook, may fret and fume to her
                        heart's content, but you and I are going to be late to breakfast just as often as we
                        like. So there! Elsie, haven't you any hot cakes?"
                    A moment later the jolly old gentleman resumed:
                    "You're a lazybones, Phil," he began. "And you've
                        missed the greatest morning of your life. I tell you "
                    "Don't tell me, uncle. Five been up since the dawn, and I've seen all
                        the glory of the morning, though I had no such good company as you enjoyed. That is a pleasure
                        yet to  come, unless you and Valorie have conspired to shut me out
                        of early morning rides with her. I believe you quite capable of that."
                    "Put it a little differently, Phil, and I'll agree with you. If you
                        don't show yourself in time to ride with my Little Minx, why I'll ride with
                        her myself, and you may as well understand it. But tell me, where have you been?"
                    "Visiting my plantation. You see, Valorie, an old lady has subjected me to a sore
                        embarrassment. That and you are the sole reasons for my being in Virginia at this time. Aunt
                        Patty Rooker, my father's great aunt, you understand, died a little while ago and
                        willed to me her plantation and negroes. Her plantation consists of about three hundred acres of
                        utterly worn out land, mostly grown up in old field pines, and her negroes comprise four
                        families, seventeen persons in all, only one of whom is fit to do a day's work.
                        I've been over there this morning to see Niah, the one able-bodied man in the lot. I
                        tried to make an arrangement with him. I offered to let him have the plantation rent free so  long as he should live, if he would undertake to make it yield a
                        living for the seventeen of them. Being a person of some shrewdness, Niah declined the proposal.
                        Then I made another offer. I happen to own some wild land in Indiana good, fertile land, but
                        utterly useless to me. There are six hundred and forty acres of it. I offered to give it free to
                        the crew of seventeen, with transportation thrown in, if they would emigrate. But, of course,
                        they would do nothing of the sort. I said I would stock their little farms, give them a mule
                        apiece, and a cow, but they shook their heads. They had attachments to their old home; they
                        didn't know how they might get on among 'a lot o' Yankees.'
                        In brief, the thing was a failure altogether. I'm saddled with a wholly worthless
                        plantation and the care of seventeen negroes, only one of whom is able to do a real
                        day's work."
                    "But what are you going to do, Mr. Shentone? I don't like to call you that, it
                        seems so well, so far away, and you have been so kind to me. Mayn't I call you
                        "
                    "Call me Phil," answered Shenstone.
                    
                    "That's friendly and fellowshippy, and that's what Uncle calls me.
                        Just call me Phil."
                    "But well, suppose I say 'Mister' first. I'll call you Mr.
                        Phil, and you shall call me Val. That's what my father called me in the long ago, when
                        I was permitted to know him, before he became bad."
                    "He was never bad, Val. The people who told you that were liars. I knew your father for
                        many years and he was never bad."
                    The girl quivered with emotion.
                    "Then they wronged him?" she said, adding: "I always felt that they
                        did. Dear father! He used to tell me stories, and I loved him so much that I couldn't
                        learn to hate him when they told me I must."
                    "Whoever told you aught of evil of your father," said Shenstone, with
                        impressive earnestness, "was a liar and the truth was not in him. Believe me. I knew
                        him. I know his whole story as you do not, and it is as well that you never shall. I tell you
                        now, and I shall tell you always, to believe in your father, in his integrity, in his
                        righteousness and in his devoted love for you. Cherish his memory if  you desire to cherish anything of the past. Whatever else you do, or think, or believe, or
                        suspect, never for one moment suffer yourself to lose your abiding faith in the memory, the
                        integrity, the great, overpowering goodness of your father."
                    "Will you tell me about him, sometime?" the girl asked eagerly, passionately.
                    "Sometime, perhaps. Not now. We have much else to talk about now; but sometime I will
                        tell you about your father. But you asked me a question. What am I going to do about the black
                        people on the worthless little plantation which my great aunt has willed to me? Beyond the
                        present I do not know. For the present I'm going to ask Uncle Butler for the address of
                        his commission merchants in Richmond, and I am going to write to them for some Cincinnati bacon,
                        some western flour and two or three barrels of roe herrings with which to feed them. My dear
                        Val, you can't imagine their helplessness. There isn't one of them who
                        couldn't do good service in a garden, and the garden over there is the one fertile spot
                        on the  little plantation. It has had the benefit of all the
                        fertilizers produced on the place for three generations past, and there is nobody for it to feed
                        except the seventeen negroes of whom I have become the embarrassed and unhappy owner. Yet it has
                        never occurred to them, in my absence, to plant the garden. It is June now, and last
                        year's weeds are still undisturbed. Not a bed has been spaded. Not a seed has been put
                        into the ground. I've ordered the whole force perhaps I should call it the whole
                        feebleness to set to work making beds to-day and after breakfast I'm going over to
                        superintend the work. Will you ride over with me?"
                    "Why, yes, of course, if my lessons are over in time."
                    "Your lessons?"
                    "Yes. In Virginia housekeeping. You see Aunt Mary has left her own home to come over
                        here and keep house for Uncle Butler till I learn how, and it isn't even a little bit
                        fair to keep her longer than necessary. She wants to go back to her own home and be quiet and
                        happy there. She's going to teach me the  ways of
                        plantation housekeeping, and then I'm going to do it for Uncle Butler. You see I know
                        all about scrubbing and sweeping and bed-making and cookery, I learned that in the convent but I
                        don't know how to issue rations to the field hands, or well a lot of little things, and
                        Aunt Mary is going to teach me. When I learn, she is going back home and I am going to be Uncle
                        Butler's house-keeper. You know, Mr. Phil, that his house has been horribly kept, for
                        years. Until Aunt Mary came over to receive me, there hadn't been a bed aired for
                        months and years. The floors have been polished right over the dirt till they are black where
                        they ought to be white. There are sixteen negro women who are supposed to be housemaids in this
                        establishment, and you don't know what fun I'm going to have as soon as I come
                        into control, by making them work for the luxurious living they get. I'm going to have
                        every floor scrubbed to its uttermost corners. I'm going to have every bed pulled to
                        pieces and taken out of doors to be cleaned and aired. I'm going to have every piece of
                        furniture gone over  thoroughly, every curtain taken down and
                        dusted. Oh, I'm hungry for the fray and it will be a great frolic. I must first be
                        mistress and in order to be that I must learn how to 'give out' and all the
                        rest of it, but that oughtn't to take long for a girl of common sense, do you think?
                        Anyhow our housekeeping work belongs to the morning, so I can ride over to your plantation with
                        you in the afternoon. How far is it?"
                    "About three miles. I wish the road out were no longer."
                    "How do you mean?"
                    "Why, we can ride the three miles in less than half an hour. I wish I might dispose of
                        the whole thing in ten times as long a period."
                    "But why can't you? Why can't you just give up the
                        inheritance?"
                    "That sounds easy, Val; but think of it. My dear old great aunt owned this little place
                        and the negroes on it. She had a double purpose in willing both to me. She had a desire that I
                        should come back to Virginia and become a planter, for she didn't have much respect for
                        any other land or any other people,  and she had a tenderly
                        sentimental desire that the negroes who had been her servants all their lives should have a good
                        master. If I refuse the inheritance the negroes must be sent to the auction block and sold off
                        south for whatever they will bring, by way of paying off the debt of three thousand dollars that
                        encumbers the estate. You see how it is. I must accept the bequest. I must pay off the debt, and
                        I must see to it that the negroes have enough to eat as long as they live, in spite of the fact
                        that they do not earn it. So far as the financial part of the matter is concerned, I am
                        fortunately able to take care of it. I own a controlling interest in a good many big steamboats
                        and a good many little ones that are doing a profitable business in various parts of the western
                        waters.
                    "The thing that bothers me is not that. These negroes are blindly conservative. They
                        were born here as the chattels of a land owner. All their lives they have been taught that they
                        must look to the land for their support. When the land can't support them its owner
                        must, and I am unfortunately the owner. They  claim the right to
                        live upon the land on which they were born, and I confess that I feel bound to recognize that
                        right. It would be cheaper for me to board them all in good hotels in Richmond, but they do not
                        wish to go to Richmond. My only course is to maintain them where they are, and to devise such
                        means as I can to make their own labor contribute something to their support."
                    The girl sat silent for a time. Then she went away to join Aunt Mary in the morning's
                        work of "giving out." It was not until she and Phil Shenstone mounted their
                        horses after "snack," that she returned to the subject. As they neared an
                        outer gate she suddenly turned her mare about and faced her escort with sad, half-teary eyes.
                    "You have many burdens that do not belong to you. Am I one of them? Am I also a tax upon
                        your generosity, a person for whom you are called upon to provide because she is unable to earn
                        her own living? Because if I am that, I "
                    "You are nothing of the kind, Val," he answered with the utmost tenderness;
                        "and 
                        
                            SHE SUDDENLY TURNED HER MARE ABOUT AND FACED HER ESCORT. Page
                                    60.
                            
                        
                         if you were, I should rejoice in the privilege of caring for you.
                        Let me tell you. Your father was a man considerably older than I am, but he was the best friend
                        I ever had on earth, and when he lay dying his one concern, the only thing he thought about, was
                        your welfare. He asked me with his dying breath to care for you, and he told me what dangers
                        beset you. I gladly promised him and I would fulfill that promise if it cost me my life. In fact
                        it costs me exactly nothing. Your father placed in my hands a sufficient sum of money to cover
                        all and more than all, the expense you can ever be to me. I don't like to talk of that.
                        It is too painful, but you must know that you are a burden to nobody, financially."
                    The two rode on in silence for a time after the girl had said a simple, "Thank
                        you!"
                    After a while she asked: "Are you free to tell me why I am posing under an assumed
                        name?"
                    "You are not," he answered. "Your father's name was Page. You
                        were called Lee in the convent because other people, people who wanted to hide you, chose to
                        call you  so. They were bad people and their purpose was evil. Be
                        satisfied with knowing that as Valorie Page, you bear an honorable name your father bequeathed
                        to you."
                    "Will you some day tell me about my father?" she asked again, as tears slipped
                        out between her eyelids and fell upon her cheeks.
                    "Yes, some day. Not now. Your father was a hero."
                    "You say that?"
                    "Yes, Val. I say it."
                    "Thank you, Mr. Phil."
                
                
                
                    IX
                    
                        W
                        HEN Phil Shenstone and Valorie returned to Woodlands, they found the drive
                        filled with carriages, the horse racks occupied with hitchings, and the great flower-bordered
                        porch peopled with men and women, who had come to call upon the new arrivals. Phil Shenstone
                        knew the open-minded way in which every Virginian regarded his own and other people's
                        affairs, and foreseeing that awkward questions would be quite innocently asked of Valorie, he
                        hurriedly said to her, as they approached the porch:
                    "Take my arm and keep it. Stick close to me. I'll do the talking."
                    The caution came none too soon, for the first of the Virginia dames to whom the girl was
                        presented, bristled with questions which she had no thought of making impertinent. Her only
                        purpose was the friendly one of  opening a way for the girl to
                        connect herself with distinguished families in Virginia. The gentlewoman did not dream that
                        there might be distinguished families in other parts of the world, lying outside Virginia.
                    "Welcome, you dear girl!" the dame began. "You are a Page and as such
                        but are you of the Carter-Page family of the Shenandoah Valley the Cookes and Powells and the
                        rest, or of the lower James River Pages?"
                    Phil Shenstone replied:
                    "All the Virginia Pages are akin, you know. Miss Valorie Page has been educated at so
                        great a distance that she is hardly yet a mistress of our state geography or of her varying
                        kinships. Permit me to say she is worthy of them all."
                    By that time half a dozen others were pressing forward, and so, as Phil Shenstone, in his
                        pilot-slang, reflected: "That riffle is passed."
                    In the same adroit way he fenced off all other questioners. The Virginians of that time abhorred
                        nothing so much as gossip-mongering, and they held in special detestation the "Yankee
                        habit" of asking personal  questions. Yet there never were
                        people who could ask so many personal questions as they. They did it in no spirit of impertinent
                        curiosity, but merely to give the guest an opportunity to "orient" himself, as
                        the French say. They assumed, in every case, that the guest was a person of some consequence, if
                        only he had an opportunity to explain, and so, with utterly kindly purpose, they asked those
                        questions which would give him the opportunity he was supposed to covet.
                    Phil Shenstone had been a pilot, accustomed to navigate complexly difficult waters, and he
                        adroitly managed to steer Valorie through the shoals and quicksands of her first social
                        questioning.
                    Colonel Shenstone lent mighty aid. It was only June and watermelons were not due to be ripe until
                        July, but Colonel Shenstone had always been a lover of good things to eat, and he had always
                        labored to have them early. It was his habit, therefore, to plant his earliest watermelons under
                        glass and in a warm soil. It was his glory upon this occasion to have his servants surprise the
                        company by walking  into the porch with a dozen great, fat
                        watermelons upon their shoulders, ripe a full month before anybody else thought of having such
                        fruit in readiness for eating.
                    This was a diversion and Phil welcomed it. The talk thereafter was not of James River or
                        Shenandoah Valley Pages, but of Colonel Shenstone's remarkable success in gardening for
                        early results. It was admiringly reported that he had served tomatoes on the tenth of June,
                        though the Fourth of July was accounted early; that he had sent cucumbers to his friends as
                        early as the middle of May, and above all that he had distributed pecks of new peas to the
                        plantations round about, on the twenty-fifth of April.
                    All these were matters of far greater consequence than the relationships of the young gentlewoman
                        who had come to dwell at Woodlands, the more especially because the interest of the visiting
                        gentlewomen in those relationships was purely polite and perfunctory.
                    But to Valorie the matter presented itself in a more alarming aspect. She knew so little  about herself that she dreaded a renewal of the questioning and
                        she foresaw that renewal as inevitable. For, a week or two after this, Colonel Shenstone
                        announced that he had invited guests to dinner on the following Thursday, by way of welcome to
                        Phil and Valorie, "and," he added, "to serve as Valorie's
                        formal bringing out. My sister Mary is homesick for her honeysuckles and four o'clocks
                        and pretty-by-nights, and she declares that Valorie is fully competent to run the household. So
                        Mary is going home tomorrow, and my Little Minx is to preside at the dining day."
                    "I've been studying your big dictionary, Uncle Butler," said Valorie,
                        shaking a finger at him.
                    "And what did you learn there?"
                    "That 'minx' means 'a saucy girl,' and so whenever
                        you call me "Little Minx,' it's the same as calling me 'you
                        saucy little girl.'"
                    "Well, I didn't make the dictionary, did I? Some "Yankee did that, who
                        didn't know that I mean just the opposite of what he says I mean. I wonder why I bought
                        that dictionary anyhow. Oh, I know. When Phil was  a boy here at
                        Woodlands he complained that he hadn't any dictionary except his Latin one and his
                        Greek one and his classical one and the old Johnson-Walker that spelled the words wrong. So I
                        bought this to appease his abnormal craving for information. You see he was ambitious in those
                        days and meant to make a scholar of himself. You didn't do that after all, did you
                        Phil?"
                    "No. But I may do it yet," he answered with a note of melancholy in his tone;
                        "or at any rate I may decide to do what I can by way of repairing deficiencies. I
                        don't know, I haven't yet made up my mind. But about the dining day; you
                        needn't have any fear, Val. You'll be too busy with your duties as hostess for
                        them to question you much, and if anybody asks you a question that you don't know how
                        to answer, you can suddenly discover that somebody else needs attention at the moment, and
                        before you've done with that the question will have been forgotten. If worse comes to
                        worst, just say you don't know, that you were educated in a convent in the far South
                        and  were never taught concerning matters of personal
                        history."
                    "No subterfuges will be necessary," broke in Colonel Shenstone, removing his
                        long, reed-stemmed, Powhatan pipe from his mouth for a moment. "I shall announce on
                        that occasion that Valorie Page is my adopted daughter, the destined inheritor
                        of Woodlands, and I don't imagine anybody will think it necessary or prudent to inquire
                        further than that. There are ultimates in our Virginia society, and I have a strong conviction
                        that the endorsement of Butler Shenstone is one of those ultimates. Anyhow, Little Minxconfound
                        the dictionary! you need have no uneasiness. My ears are quick, even if I don't see
                        very well, and if anybody asks you troublesome questions, I'll create a diversion as we
                        military men used to say."
                    "But, Uncle Butler"began the girl in fresh alarm.
                    "But, Little Minx, you needn't finish your sentence. I know
                        what you would say. Let me assure you that my regard for truth is as  great as your own. So when I tell everybody, as I shall, that you are my adopted daughter and
                        the heir to Woodlands, I shall speak the exact truth. I've decided to cut Phil off with
                        a shilling, which in Virginia means sixteen and two thirds cents, because he has enough without
                        Woodlands, and because he has been growling for weeks past over the fact that an affectionate
                        relative has made him heir to a plantation and negroes. He shall never have that cause of
                        complaint against me after I'm gone."
                    "Thank you, Uncle," said Phil. "I heartily agree with your plans, and
                        I've already decided what I'm going to do with that shilling. I certainly
                        don't want Woodlands on my shoulders. Give it to Val, by all means."
                    "I have made up my mind to that," said the old man. "If I find I can
                        legally adopt her, after a talk with you, Phil, I'll do that. If I can't,
                        I'll make a new will, giving Woodlands to her. Anyhow, Little Minx, you've
                        made a nest for yourself in my old man's heart, and you are henceforth my
                        daughter."
                    As he said this he stepped over the portal  as if about to enter the
                        house, but turning said:
                    "It used to be that a cup of properly made coffee was ready for me when I shaved in the
                        morning before going out; it used to be that a cheery smile greeted me at the breakfast table:
                        it used to be that some one I cared for, some one I loved, liked to go with me to the stables
                        and get her feet wet with dew. Many loving things used to be. But that was years and years
                        agountil within these last few weeks, since Little Minx became mine. Now it has all come
                        back."
                    He moved as if to pass on into the hall way but Valorie alertly confronted him and held up her
                        face saying:
                    "Uncle, I'm glad if I have made you more comfortableno, that isn't
                        what I mean or what you mean. I'm glad if I've brought a little love and
                        sunshine into your lonely life. But as to the rest of it, don't! Give
                        Woodlands to Mr. Phil, please.'
                    "Now you're making yourself a little minx in the dictionary sense," he
                        said, tenderly caressing her; "and I won't have that. You  may love me all you like, but you mustn't interfere with such business
                        arrangements as I choose to make. I like to think of you as my Little Minx, in my sense of the
                        words, but not in the dictionary sense. I wish I had burned that dictionary long ago."
                    "Never mind that, Uncle Butler. I'll be your Little Minx in your sense, and
                        I'll do all I can, as long as I live, to bring love and tenderness into your
                        life."
                    She broke into tears and fled to the inner precincts. The old man,long widowed and bravely
                        enduring the loss of love that had fallen upon him years ago when the wife of his youth was
                        taken away while he was yet young,shed some drops on his own account, which he angrily brushed
                        away as he placed "eighteen pence" into the hand of Jim, the head dining room
                        servant, saying:
                    "Jim, the fishing's good, now that the dogwood is in blossom. Maybe your Miss
                        Valorie can spare you for a day off presently. Here's a quarter. Buy some fish
                        lines."
                
                
                
                    X
                    
                        V
                        ALORIE was much troubled by the things suggested in the unfinished
                        conversationmost conversations are unfinishedbetween herself, Colonel Shenstone and Phil, She
                        felt herself an intruder, and she was bent upon securing some revision of the decisions arrived
                        at by those who had her fortunes and her life in charge. But she had heavy burdens of domestic
                        responsibility upon her, so that for some days afterwards there was no leisure in which to seek
                        a renewal of the conference. Aunt Mary had gone home and the conduct of the household rested
                        upon the young girl's shoulders. First of all there was Colonel Shenstone's
                        early morning cup of coffee to prepare with her own hands in order that its aroma might be
                        altogether right, and, more important still, as her quick feminine perceptions taught her, there
                             was the duty of drinking it with him every morning, without
                        hurry and in a spirit of affectionate comradery.
                    Then she had the task of renovating the long-neglected house and repairing the consequences of
                        the negro neglect of years. This was the more difficult for the reason that she was determined
                        to have it done only at such times and in such ways as should in no wise disturb Colonel
                        Shenstone in the routine of his life, but she adroitly managed that. Fortunately the
                        long-neglected house servants made no resistance, active or passive, to her exercise of
                        authority. They were quick to understand that she enjoyed both the confidence and the affection
                        of their master, and they knew that any hesitation or reluctance in obedience to her orders, if
                        the fact should come to his knowledge, would be the full equivalent of open defiance of him. Not
                        one of them knew from experience what dire consequences would follow defiance of him, for that
                        was an extreme of mutiny upon which nobody had ever dared venture; but whatever curiosity they
                        may have felt upon that subject  was content to satisfy itself with
                        conjecture and without experiment. Moreover the girl had a certain comradely way with her, which
                        quickly won the servants to a willing obedience. However exigent she might be as to thoroughness
                        of work, she never gave her orders harshly, or with the smallest suggestion that she anticipated
                        disobedience even as a possibility. From the first the servitors liked and admired her, and very
                        soon, in their simpleminded way, they began to love her and to do her will more than willingly.
                        Where they failed by reason of unskilfulness, she set to work to teach them skill and, in their
                        homely way they commented upon the fact: "'Stid o' scoldin'
                        she shows us," they said. Where they failed through habitual negligence, she laughed at
                        them until, joining in the laugh, they bestirred themselves to betterment. Where their
                        carelessness was due simply to a lack of understanding, she preached to them, in her pleasant
                        way, a new gospel of cleanliness and thoroughness and neatness, and she succeeded in converting
                        them.
                    A very few of the younger ones learned unwillingly,  and upon these
                        she brought authority to bear. She selected the most recalcitrant one to serve as an example. To
                        her one day, in the presence of all the rest, she said:
                    "Sally, you don't seem to like your work in the house. Perhaps you'd
                        like me to ask your master to release you from it and send you to the fields."
                    There was no threat madeonly a suggestion of preferencebut Sally understood. Between field
                        negroes and house servants there was a great gulf fixed. The house servants constituted an
                        aristocracy as definite and as well recognized as that of a group of duchesses and marchionesses
                        is to the wives of English tradespeople. To fall from the position of housemaid or chambermaid
                        or lady's maid on a great plantation to that of a helper in the fields, was the full
                        equivalent of the lapse of a countess to the counter of a shop.
                    Colonel Shenstone happened to overhear this passage between Valorie and Sally, and for comment he
                        said:
                    "She'll do!"
                    When the dining day came, Valorie had  everything in readiness for
                        it, and Colonel Shenstone, whose dignity was that of a long range gun, was on guard. To such of
                        the guests as had already met Valorie he said:
                    "I think you already know my daughter," and he said it with an emphasis upon
                        the last two words that was easily understood. To those who were new acquaintances of hers he
                        was at pains to say:
                    "Let me introduce you to my daughter, Miss Valorie Page, who is mistress of Woodlands,
                        and your hostess."
                    When at dinner a young gentleman embarrassed perhaps because another young gentleman sat next his
                        sweetheart bungled a little in the carving of a fowl, to the detriment of the table linen, he
                        asked pardon of Colonel Shenstone. The gallant old gentleman was prompt to reply:
                    "My daughter, Miss Valorie Page, will excuse you, I am sure. I have found her very
                        indulgent to our masculine mistakes. Valorie, Mr. Meade asks your forgiveness for a slight
                        mishap."
                    "No apology is needed, I am sure," said  Valorie,
                        graciously. "I only wonder at the skill the young gentlemen of Virginia show in
                        carving. Mr. Meade, you may help me to a bit of the breast if you please."
                    "She'll do," said Colonel Shenstone under his breath, but audibly
                        enough for Phil to hear and rejoice in the verdict.
                    When, at the end of the dessert, the sherry was brought on and all glasses filled, Colonel
                        Shenstone, instead of proposing the usual toast of dismissal to "The ladies,"
                        rose in his place and said: "My friends, I ask you to drink standing, a glass of wine
                        in welcome to the new mistress of Woodlands, my daughter, Miss Valorie Page."
                    Then with stately courtesy he advanced to the door, bowing, and held it open while the
                        gentlewomen passed through. One of them, Edna Spottswood, who had evidently overheard the old
                        gentleman's comment upon Valorie, leaned toward him as she passed and said in his ear:
                    "You'll do, Colonel Shenstone."
                    Edna was one of the three or four young women who, after the old Virginia custom,  remained for a few days as guests at Woodlands, and that night,
                        when she and some others were having their hair combed by the maids, she suddenly ejaculated,
                        apropos of nothing in particular:
                    "Why don't the young gentlemen form themselves upon the model of Colonel
                        Shenstone and men like him?"
                    "He is very gallant," answered another.
                    "That isn't what I mean," said Edna. "It is more than mere
                        gallantry, more than manners. He is always so thoughtful, so kindly, so considerate of others,
                        so delicately sensitive to every need that any one may feel pshaw! I can't say
                        it."
                    "I can," said Valorie, "he's a gentleman."
                    
                    "That's it!" said the rest in chorus.
                
                
                
                    XI
                    
                        A
                        S the weeks went on, Phil Shenstone manifested none of the impatience he had
                        at first felt to get back to his business in the West. There were several reasons for this. The
                        fascination of the old Virginia life, in which his boyhood had been passed had taken a strong
                        hold upon him again for one thing. Its utter restfulness was soothing to his spirits after an
                        arduous career of constant and strenuous endeavor. For another, he still had on his hands the
                        unsolved problem of how best to care for the seventeen negroes who had been left to him as an
                        inheritance, and who were helpless under existing conditions, to make a living for themselves.
                        They had a garden growing now, and that would help to feed them, but the help was a small one,
                        and but for his daily superintendence even the garden would have come to naught.
                    
                    Then again he had begun reading the fine old English literature on the shelves of the Woodlands
                        library; his old scholarly instincts had strongly revived in him, so much so indeed, that after
                        reading Pope's Homer and Dryden's Virgil again, he had got down his Greek and
                        Latin dictionaries, and, with the aid of some old grammars of those languages, had fallen into
                        the habit of lying on the greensward under the trees in the Woodlands' house grounds,
                        and trying to dig out translations of his own for the great masterpieces of classic literature.
                        To his gratified astonishment his Latin and Greek not only came back to him, but came back with
                        a quickness and fulness of perception which had never been his in his student days. His matured
                        mind easily grasped things which his unformed student mind had not grasped at all, and he was
                        strongly tempted to undertake again, and with greater interest, the tasks of education and
                        culture which circumstances had compelled him to drop nearly a decade before.
                    Finally, there was Valorie. When by his command she had been put into skirts suitably  long for her age, she had seemed suddenly to change from an
                        awkward child into a graceful young woman, and since she had assumed the dignity and
                        responsibility of mistress at Woodlands, her ripening into a self-possessed young womanhood had
                        been almost astonishingly rapid. It had brought with it no particle of loss of that simplicity
                        and childlike honesty of character which had seemed to him so charming on his first acquaintance
                        with her, but it had added the charms of dignity and a self-possession altogether pleasing. As a
                        school girl, dependent upon unknown persons for her very bread and butter, and subject in every
                        hour and minute of her life to the arbitrary control of those in authority over her, her manner
                        had been marked by the timid, shrinking, half-cowardly self-consciousness of a child who has no
                        rights and is uncertain of her privileges. As the Mistress of Woodlands, assured of her personal
                        independence, honored with Colonel Shenstone's affection, and exercising the functions
                        of a hostess whose hospitality was sought on every hand, she had rapidly ripened into a  young woman, very young still but very dignified and old enough to
                        hold her own.
                    Without quite admitting it, and perhaps half unconsciously, Phil Shenstone had come to feel that
                        his interest in Valorie was an additional inducement for him to prolong his stay in Virginia. He
                        was directing her reading for one thing. He was riding with her a good deal, for another, and
                        for still another, Edna Spottswood had become deeply interested in Valorie, and Phil liked to
                        visit Edna, and talk with her regarding his ward.
                    Finally, Phil rejoiced in good music, and Valorie knew how to produce such. Early in her life at
                        Woodlands she went to the long-disused piano and began to play, while Colonel Shenstone stood by
                        to listen and to turn the music for her. After a few bars she suddenly broke off and asked:
                    "Uncle Butler, is there a monkey wrench on the plantation?"
                    "Yes, Little Minx," he answered, "a dozen of them. But what use have
                        you for a monkey wrench?"
                    
                    "I want to tune the piano. It is horribly out of tune."
                    "But can you tune it? Where did you learn that art?"
                    "In the convent. The music master taught all of us to do it. He said truly that nobody
                        was a musician till she could tune her instrument without a tuning fork. You see, Uncle Butler,
                        you must be able to recognize a note A for instance by your own ear and without a guide, before
                        you are really fit to play for company. That is why he wouldn't let most of the girls
                        play for company at all. He said bad playing was greatly worse than no playing. Indeed he used
                        to shock the Sisters by swearing dreadfully about it. So I had to learn to tune all the
                        instruments I played the piano, the harp, the "
                    "Do you play the harp?"
                    "Yes, of course. It's so simple you know. But I play pretty much everything.
                        They educated me for well, that way."
                    "So," said the old man meditatively. "And here you've been
                        thinking of playing on an old piano that has been practically unused  for twenty years or more. I'll not let you have a monkey wrench, Little
                        Minx."
                    With that he quitted the parlor, and Valorie wondered what she had done to offend him. A few days
                        later there came to Woodlands a grand piano of celebrated make, a harp and a great goods box
                        full of sheet music.
                    It was Colonel Shenstone's way to order things wholesale.
                    There were still other reasons why Phil Shenstone should indulge his desire to remain in Virginia
                        for a time, as he explained to Valorie during one of their horseback rides together. Something
                        he said to her in the course of their talk on that occasion, or some quite innocent and
                        unimpertinent question from the young woman, betrayed him into an autobiographical mood, and he
                        told her the story of himself.
                    "My father was Uncle Butler's brother, you know," he said,
                        "though he was many years younger. When my grandfather died Woodlands plantation was
                        divided between the two, and when my father married he built a new house on his half of it.
                        You've seen  the blackened foundations of it over by the
                        old water mill, for it was burned many years ago. I was born there and lived there until I was
                        thirteen or fourteen years old, though both by night and by day, after I ceased to be a baby, I
                        was as often at Woodlands house as at the new place.
                    "My father was a man of high culture and was the best teacher I ever had; but he was
                        utterly unfit for the care of his own estate, partly because of his studious habits, but more
                        because of his too great generosity and his excessive confidence in the integrity of his
                        fellow-men. He was always ready much too ready indeed to help anyone needing his help. I do not
                        know the details, but I know that when I was in my fourteenth year, my father found his fortune
                        gone and himself in danger of falling into insolvency. He decided to go to Indiana, where he had
                        a considerable undeveloped landed property. Uncle Butler of course stood ready to help him in
                        every way. He took up the mortgages on my father's plantation, paid off most of the
                        debts and himself assumed the rest. In return my  father
                        transferred his land and negroes to his brother, and Woodlands became again a single great
                        plantation, with a single owner and master. I know now, though I knew nothing about it then,
                        that Uncle Butler's payments on my father's account amounted to more than my
                        father's share of the property was worth.
                    "We went West, and my father died there within a few months. Uncle Butler begged my
                        mother to come and live at Woodlands, telling her that as I was to be his heir and the next
                        owner of the estate, her maintenance would be merely an anticipation of so much of my
                        inheritance, and that she would really be beholden to nobody but me.
                    "My mother was a sensitively proud woman, and while she would not have been ashamed,
                        with such an understanding, to accept Uncle Butler's hospitality, she felt that she
                        could not as a dependent, face the people round about, among whom she had always been a person
                        of consequence.
                    "Refusing the offer, therefore, she took a school and for a year or two made a meagre
                        living out of it. Then she married again.
                    
                    "Her second husband had three daughters of his own by a former marriage, and they all
                        came to live with us. He was a man of large ability, but of a domineering temper. He developed
                        the unimproved lands which my father had left to my mother and soon made them profitable. I had
                        no share in all this as the lands had been willed to my mother, but my stepfather, who was not
                        an ungenerous man in his way, so far recognized a moral claim upon my part, that he sent me to
                        Asbury University at Greencastle. I had already, during my mother's widowhood, gone
                        through an excellent school, and although I was not yet sixteen years old, I was fully prepared
                        to enter college.
                    "I remained a student there for two years, passing my vacations with my mother at our
                        home in a little Ohio river city. At these times I discovered that my mother was very unhappy,
                        and after awhile I discovered the cause; my stepsisters were annoying her in every way they
                        could, humiliating her, and even openly insulting her when my stepfather  was away from home, as he was, most of the time, because of his business.
                    "I could not fight girls, of course, but on my stepfather's return one day, I
                        laid a complaint of them before him and, perhaps in a less respectful tone than I ought to have
                        used, demanded that he should protect my mother. He flew into a passion and we
                        had a quarrel. In the course of it he said to me: 'If you say another word,
                        I'll use the rod upon you.' I looked him in the eyes and answered:
                        'If you attempt to do that I will kill you,' and he saw that I meant what I
                        had said.
                    "He left the room without another word, and went to my mother, who was an invalid. After
                        they had been in conference for an hour he went away and my mother sent for me. She told me that
                        my stepfather had decided to withdraw me from college and set me to work. I suggested that while
                        he might refuse to maintain me in college he was not my master, and that I would choose my own
                        work. Then she told me something I had never known before. He had had himself appointed my  guardian, so that until I should reach the age of twenty-one his
                        authority over me would be as absolute as if he had been my father. I answered:
                    " 'Advise him not to attempt to exercise his authority. It will be best for him
                        and for all concerned.'
                    "Then I tenderly caressed my mother and left the room. I had my father's watch
                        mine now which had cost him many hundreds of dollars in England, and was worth many hundreds
                        still. I went at once to a jeweler, who knew that notable repeater's value, and offered
                        it to him for a hundred dollars. He had been my father's friend, and he was a man of
                        generous mind. He replied that he would not rob me by taking the watch at the price mentioned.
                        He would give me two hundred, and, he added: 'It is worth greatly more than that, but
                        it isn't an easy thing to sell. I'll hold it a year for you. If within that
                        time you wish to pay me back the money with ten per cent. interest, you shall have the
                        heirloom.' "
                    
                    "That's the watch you are carrying now?" half asked and half declared
                        the girl.
                    "Yes. I redeemed it. Never mind about that now. I went back to the house and packed my
                        small belongings. That evening I boarded the steamer General Pike, bound from Cincinnati to New
                        Orleans.
                    "The first clerk on board of her was an old schoolmate of my own. He had no salaried
                        place open to me, but he made me what they call 'mud clerk,' which, in return
                        for much hard work, gave me my passage and my board, together with a chance to do better after a
                        while. I soon saw some small chances, I learned that the deck passengers, of whom there were
                        multitudes in those days, must feed themselves, and that in their improvidence most of them
                        brought utterly inadequate supplies for their voyage. I purchased considerable food stuff at
                        Louisville, and when the deck passengers began to run short, I fed them at a profit so large
                        that when we reached New Orleans my capital was increased by fifty per cent. On the way up the
                        river I bought  small lots of sugar and molasses at the landings,
                        the products of the smaller plantations whose owners preferred a cash sale to the shipment of
                        their very small lots. By the time that two or three trips had been made, I had added several
                        hundred dollars to my funds, and I began to look about me for a chance of betterment. I
                        didn't want to remain either a clerk or a speculator. One day in New Orleans I met
                        Norman Page, your father. He was a dandy pilot, on the dandiest steamboat of that time, which,
                        with him at the wheel, had broken all records for speed. He was a Virginian and so was I, and we
                        speedily became friends. He took me as his 'cub' that is to say, his pupil and
                        taught me the river. By the time I had learned it thoroughly for he would tolerate nothing short
                        of perfection in me I had attained the age required by law, and I secured my license. Then he
                        took me for his partner, and I too became a dandy pilot, always perfectly dressed, always a man
                        of leisure, when in port, and always, under the law, an autocrat when on board. For you know the
                        pilot is by law  made sole judge of what and when and how much a
                        boat may do in navigation. If he decides that it is unsafe to run and ties the boat up to the
                        bank, even the captain cannot overrule him. His judgment is final; his authority is absolute.
                    "About the time when I became a cub pilot my mother died. It was a fortnight after the
                        funeral when the news reached me in a letter from an old schoolmate, for my stepfather had not
                        notified me. About the same time came a letter from Uncle Butler urging me to come to him and
                        complete my education at his expense, but, feeling that he had already sacrificed much to my
                        father, I declined to add to the obligation, and continued my endeavors to make my own way in
                        the world.
                    "After I became a full-fledged pilot the way was easy enough. A pilot receives a salary
                        of four hundred dollars a month. A pilot always dresses well, better than any body else, better
                        even than captains and steamboat owners do; but he has no other necessary expenses. He has his
                        board and lodging free, whether in port or on the river. As I had no bad habits,  no habits of any kind indeed that cost me anything, I was able to
                        save all my salary except what I spent to keep myself perfectly dressed. Even in port I spent
                        nothing, because I cared for nothing there. I very rarely attended the theatre or opera. I spent
                        my time on board, reading.
                    "As my money began accumulating I invested it in steamboat property, and as I knew all
                        the ins and outs of river traffic, my investments were enormously profitable. On one occasion,
                        for example, I took advantage of high water, bought a little dinky steamboat for five thousand
                        dollars, sent her up the Tallahatchie, where there hadn't been a steamboat for a year
                        before, and where the banks were covered mountain high with cotton bales that had waited months
                        for a market. Within three months that little boat earned a clear ten thousand dollars in
                        freight money for me, and I sold her for nearly as much as she had cost me.
                    "I'm telling you all this by way of explaining myself. Let me shorten the story
                        by saying that I am now a very large owner of  steamboat property.
                        I have as much money as any reasonable man ought to want, and as I have such men as Budd Doble,
                        Tom Leathers, John Cannon, Captain Bell and the like for my partners, my investments will go on
                        making money for me wherever I may be. So I am free to linger here in Virginia as long as I
                        like. How long that will be, I do not know. It all depends."
                    He did not say upon what it depended.
                
                
                
                    XII
                    
                        A
                        S the months passed by, the affection between Colonel Shenstone and Valorie
                        the hale old gentleman and the fresh-hearted young girl grew steadily tenderer. If she had been
                        his daughter in fact, instead of his adopted daughter, his care of her could not have been more
                        chivalrous or more loving, nor could her affection for him have been greater than it was. If
                        they had been a boy and a girl, brother and sister, twins, their comradery could not have been
                        closer or more constant. If Valorie had been a duchess or the most dignified lady in the land,
                        Colonel Shenstone's courtesy to her could not have been more scrupulous. When she
                        entered a room he rose and brought her a chair never the one in which he had been sitting, but
                        another, so that in accepting it she need have no feeling that she was disturbing him.  If she were called out of the room he rose and held the door open
                        for her. If the glow of the fire for the frosts of autumn had come seemed too strong for her, he
                        was the first to discover it and to place a face screen for her protection. At table she, as the
                        lady of the house, was the first to be helped, under the rule to which all old Virginians owed
                        allegiance, that no matter what guests might be present, the gentlewoman who presided over the
                        household was entitled to precedence over all others.
                    Manners among the younger generation, were less formal than they had been in his youth, less
                        observant of the nicer courtesies of life. Colonel Shenstone regarded this as a mark of
                        degeneracy, as indeed it was, and he would tolerate nothing of the kind in the treatment
                        accorded to Valorie by young men visiting his house. One such ventured one day to address her as
                        "Miss Val," whereupon the Colonel arose and with stately dignity said:
                    "Permit me, sir, to present you to my daughter, Miss Page."
                    The rebuke had its effect.
                    
                    The old gentleman's own behavior toward her was equally circumspect. His intimacy was
                        far greater, of course, than he permitted to any one else, and he continued to call her in
                        private by the pet name he had given to her, "Little Minx," but never once did
                        he permit himself to address her in that way in the presence of persons outside the household.
                        Never did he light his pipe in her presence without asking her permission. Never for one moment
                        did he forget the deference that he held to be her right by virtue of her womanhood first and
                        also because she was the mistress of Woodlands.
                    At first all this unwonted consideration frightened the girl somewhat, for she had always
                        thitherto been taught to think of herself as a chit of a child, subject to continual governance,
                        and possessed of no claim to consideration of any kind. But the new conditions did not spoil her
                        in the least. They acted as the sunshine in a garden does upon a flowering plant recently
                        released from a pot-bound state and transplanted into a wholesome soil with free access to the
                        sun and rain. All the benumbing  effects of restraint and
                        repression passed away. The morbid self-consciousness of her former hampered condition was
                        replaced by a wholesome consciousness of her womanhood, a proper sense of her dignity, and an
                        inspiring recognition of her right to consideration.
                    Phil Shenstone observed with astonishment the rapidity of her development from awkward childhood
                        into a complacent if unassertive womanhood, and he observed with delight that nothing of value
                        in her character was lost in the process. All her sweet sincerity of soul remained. All her
                        enthusiasms survived, even the childlikeness of her spirit was in no way impaired by the
                        elimination of the childishness. Observing her closely at this time, he decided that she was
                        destined to become the most perfect type of admirable womanhood he had ever known. He lacked the
                        self-knowledge necessary to perceive that in his eyes this was not a matter of destiny but of
                        present fact that she was already quite all that he thought her destined to become.
                    In her new capacity as mistress of the greatest  plantation home in
                        that part of Virginia, Valorie speedily grasped and understood conditions. She quickly caught
                        the methods of the time and country, and, applying them she wrought a revolution in the old
                        mansion. For twenty years past there had been no social life there, because for twenty years
                        past there had been no gentlewoman in charge. On her first attendance at church Valorie had
                        observed that every young woman invited every other young woman to go home with her to spend the
                        ensuing week, and that those young women who secured the most desirable guests in this way were
                        sure to have as visitors during the week, the most as well as the most desirable young
                        gentlemen.
                    On her first attendance at church Valorie had invited nobody, because she had not yet realized
                        her position or the duties and privileges appertaining to it. When she understood, and after
                        Colonel Shenstone had reminded her of her duties as the hostess of a great plantation, she
                        issued her invitations right and left, and carried away with her a group of young gentlewomen
                        whose presence  at Woodlands insured a liberal supply of young men
                        visitors, some of whom passed nights there, others only the days, but all of whom came
                        unannounced and without special invitation, taking the hospitality of the house so much for
                        granted that often half a dozen unannounced guests would ride up, only half an hour before the
                        four o'clock dinner time. Some of these would remain over night or even for two or
                        three days, taking their welcome for granted, as they were fully warranted in doing by the
                        custom of the country. Sometimes they would ride up just in time for supper, and always there
                        were places and a welcome for them.
                    In brief, under Valorie's administration, and to Colonel Shenstone's delight,
                        the life of the old mansion suspended for a score of years was re-established.
                    Valorie's musical education had been something far superior to anything known in that
                        region, and it constituted a peculiar attraction. She played divinely upon the piano, the harp,
                        the violin, the guitar and the then little known Spanish instrument, the mandolin. She even  played upon the dulcimer, a queer instrument, wholly unknown in
                        that region until then. Colonel Shenstone had learned that fact by accident, and had straightway
                        sent to Germany for a dulcimer, just as he had ordered a new carriage built for her and a pair
                        of young horses broken to draw it.
                    When the new carriage came, he ordered the old one deposited in what he called "the
                        museum," and invited his "Little Minx" to go with him thither to
                        inspect the curiosities. These consisted of fifteen or twenty vehicles of antique and long
                        abandoned patterns, mostly cumbersome and all curious in the elaboration of their decayed
                        elegance.
                    "Here," he said to her, "is our patent of Virginia nobility. In this
                        building are stored all the plantation carriages that have carried the great dames and lovely
                        damsels of the Shenstone family, since it was first established in Virginia in 1635. The
                        earliest were brought from England during the first century and a half of the family's
                        dominance pardon me, I meant to say establishment here. The rest were built in America, but all
                        of them 
                        
                            "HERE IS OUR PATENT OF VIRGINIA
                                    NOBILITY." Page 102.
                            
                        
                         were used by the women of our ancient family and all of them are
                        redolent of memories that it is worth while to cherish as an inheritance memories of gentlewomen
                        who, as maids, wives and mothers, did their duty bravely, dignifiedly and with full appreciation
                        of the privilege of duty doing. The carriage we are adding to the collection to-day was bought
                        for my wife when she was my bride. It is sadly out of date now, as I am, but it is fragrant with
                        memories of as noble a woman as ever bore our family name. The new carriage in which you will
                        drive to church tomorrow, will be placed in the museum when it shall have grown antiquated. It
                        will be reminiscent of my Little Minx. I trust there will be those living at that time who will
                        justly value it on that account."
                    Colonel Shenstone was a sentimentalist as every man is who is worthy to live among his fellowmen.
                        It is the sentimentalist alone who keeps life sweet and lifts it above the level of a quarry
                        worked by slaves under the lash of necessity. It is sentiment that prompts us to all courtesy in
                        life. It is sentiment that makes  the child love and the grown man
                        revere his mother. It is sentiment that makes us tender in our treatment of children, courteous
                        and protective in our relations with women, honest and fair in our dealings with men. In brief,
                        it is sentiment and sentiment alone, that lifts us above the level of the brute beasts and makes
                        of this world of ours something better than a pig stye. Sentiment represents the dominance of
                        the moral and intellectual side of our nature over our brute passions, the conquest of mere
                        appetite by our higher nature, the reign of the spiritual over the grossly animal part of human
                        nature. The man who declaims against sentiment and scorns romance, is a man to be feared and
                        avoided, a man who would rob the sunset of its glory, wash the green out of the grass and the
                        foliage, and strip the gold from fields of ripening grain, if there were profit in the process.
                    If we would preserve to human existence that which makes it worthier than the presence of the
                        clods under our feet, we must set our faces resolutely against that materialism, that
                        utilitarianism that discovers merit only in gain  and that would
                        banish all high ideals from our lives on the ground that they do not "pay."
                    Sentiment is the father of all heroism, the nursing mother of all self-sacrifice. It is the
                        inspiration of philanthropy, the impulsive force of justice, the creator of all kindliness the
                        one redeeming quality that prompts an omniscient God to let men live at all.
                
                
                
                    XIII
                    
                        D
                        URING all this time Valorie had been pursuing her studies in several diverse
                        directions. Under tutelage of Edna Spottswood, several years older than herself, who was a
                        Virginia housewife to the manner born, and who was Valorie's intimate, she was learning
                        all the intricacies of domestic science which are now taught in college
                        "courses," and learning them much more thoroughly and above all much more
                        practically than any college course can teach them. In return she was teaching Edna all the
                        mysteries of fine needlework that she had learned in the convent. She was also improving
                        Edna's French, and teaching her more of music than the governess-trained Virginia girl
                        had ever imagined to exist.
                    But chief among her own studies, Valorie was exploring English literature, under Phil  Shenstone's guidance. She had said to him one day:
                    "Mr. Phil, I am painfully ignorant. These Virginia girls make me ashamed, with their
                        knowledge of Byron, Shakespeare, Dickens, Wordsworth and a lot more whose names I can't
                        recall. You see, in the convent we read the Lives of the Saints, and the Imitation of Christ,
                        and a book about chivalry, and that was about all. Won't you tell me what to
                        read?"
                    Thereupon Phil had undertaken her instruction in that department of learning, and under his
                        guidance she had utilized all her spare hours in reading the classics of our language.
                    Incidentally it may be recorded that Phil Shenstone had mightily enjoyed the exercise of his
                        function as tutor. Perhaps that was because Valorie was an unusually quick and bright-minded
                        pupil, who learned rapidly. Perhaps it was because her questionings of him revealed a peculiarly
                        tender and sympathetic nature. Perhaps it was because her interest in what she read was
                        charmingly insatiable. Perhaps it was because of many other things.
                    Perhaps it was because Phil Shenstone had  fallen in love with
                        Valorie Page without himself knowing the fact.
                    Putting all "perhapses" aside, the fact was apparent that by diligent reading,
                        Valorie rapidly improved her mind, enlarged her views, and equipped herself for the social life
                        she was leading in which an acquaintance with literature was a matter of course. Wisely enough,
                        Phil set her to read Motley and Prescott and Macaulay, as well as the novelists, adding
                        Thiers's French Revolution, Grote's History of Greece, Buckle's
                        History of Civilization, the first volume of which had just appeared, and a number of other such
                        books by way of giving her a groundwork of historical knowledge upon which to stand while
                        studying life in the presentment of fiction.
                    But Valorie's thirst for knowledge did not confine itself to books by any means. She
                        even more determinedly studied everything that might in any degree equip her for her duties as
                        mistress of Woodlands. When the December cold came and Colonel Shenstone planned the annual
                        hog-killing, she entreated him to postpone it for three or four days, giving no  reason, and he, asking no reason but "just to please my
                        Little Minx," did so. Thereupon Valorie drove daily over to Mattapony, the Spottswood
                        plantation, where she knew that hog-killing was already in progress, and besought Edna, with the
                        aid of her servants, to teach her all there was to know about the preparation of hams, shoulders
                        and middlings for the smoke house, the sousing of pigs' feet, ears and noses, the
                        making of brawn, the care of livers, hearts and kidneys, the making of sausage, the preparation
                        of chidlings, the rendering of lard and all the rest of it, especially the making of
                        pigs' foot jelly, a dainty of which Colonel Shenstone was particularly fond. After
                        three successive days of diligent study she announced her readiness for hog-killing at
                        Woodlands, and when she served to Colonel Shenstone a glass of jelly with thick cream and he
                        found it perfect for the first time in twenty years, her rejoicing was great.
                    Socially Valorie was altogether successful. The young women of the community were drawn to her by
                        her transparent simplicity, by  her impulse of modest
                        self-effacement, by her utter unpretentiousness when, they realized, as mistress of Woodlands
                        and heiress to that great estate, she might easily have been pardoned much of arrogant
                        presumption. But chiefly it was her sweetness and wholesomeness of character that attracted
                        them. She was the sort of girl who must be loved or hated, and the young women round about found
                        it far easier to love than to hate her.
                    Then, too, the elderly women thoroughly approved her. She had a certain deferential way of
                        treating them, learned in the convent perhaps, which made her presence altogether pleasing to
                        them.
                    As for the middle-aged men, those of them who had sons urgently advised them to make the most of
                        their opportunities with Valorie Page, and the young men did so with an eagerness that
                        rejuvenated Woodlands house and made it seem to Colonel Shenstone what it had been in his own
                        youth when his sister was the belle of that region.
                    The young men were jealous of each other, of course, but the bitterness of their jealousy  was reserved for Colonel Shenstone. Whenever they proposed a ride
                        or a game or whatever else, Valorie would make her consent dependent upon Colonel
                        Shenstone's need of her attention or her company. If in the midst of a madcap frolic on
                        the lawn, she saw him come out into the porch, she would instantly leave all the rest to their
                        own devices and go to him. In winter, if he grew weary of the music or the dancing or whatever
                        else there might be going on in the parlor, and sought to slip away to "the
                        chamber," which was the family sitting room in every old Virginia mansion, Valorie
                        would call some other girl to the piano, suggest something that was sure to entertain the
                        company, and then quietly slip away "to smoke with Uncle Butler," as she
                        phrased it, he doing the smoking while she sat by his side, he petting her and rejoicing in the
                        devotion of his "Little Minx." Her affection for him was limitless, and her
                        devotion unrestrained by any other consideration whatever.
                    She thought not at all of reward, but her reward was a rich one when she understood that she was
                        bringing a measureless happiness  into the life of this old man,
                        who had for so long known nothing more of happiness than is implied in the possession of
                        abundance and the servile ministrations of those who are bound to service.
                    He had adopted her as his daughter, in fact, though not in legal form. A more important fact was
                        that she had adopted him as her father, and that in every tender way imaginable, she treated him
                        as such, with never a reserve, never a stinting of affectionate attention.
                    One day Phil spoke of this rejoicingly.
                    "If you never did anything else good in all your life, Val," he said,
                        "you are doing enough to make an angel of yourself, in bringing so much of happiness
                        into my uncle's declining years."
                    "Thank you," she said. "You know that is all I'm living for.
                        As Byron says, 'The rest is leather and prunella.' That reminds me, I must
                        write to Hall, the shoeman, to-day, or I shall presently be barefoot. But Mr. Phil, you know how
                        generously good to me Uncle Butler is. Shouldn't I be a very bad  girl or a very stupid one if I didn't find out how to make him happy and
                        do it with all my might?"
                    Phil looked at her admiringly, lovingly. Then he said:
                    "You are neither bad nor stupid, Val; and Uncle Butler is by no means the only person in
                        this world whom you are rendering happy. As for finding out how to do that you need no guidance.
                        Your love will take care of that."
                    Valorie made no reply. She went away and thought about what he had said. Somehow the words meant
                        more to her than any other words she had ever heard, perhaps because Phil Shenstone's
                        approval had come to mean more to her than she as yet knew.
                
                
                
                    XIV
                    
                        A
                        MONG the younger men who were frequent visitors at Woodlands, was one who
                        from the first commanded Valorie's admiration and sympathy. This was Dr. Greg Tazewell.
                    He owned a prosperous plantation, which he conducted successfully, but the greater part of his
                        attention was given to his practice of medicine on the plantations round about.
                    He had called upon Phil, on his return to Virginia, and had paid his respects to Valorie, dining
                        informally at Woodlands on several occasions, and during the autumn visiting the plantation
                        frequently to shoot with Phil. He was a young man of excellent address, modest, unassuming, but
                        as Valorie began early to suspect, intellectual beyond the common. He was handsome in face and
                        person, blond, curly-haired,  and abounding in healthy animal
                        spirits. His bubbling good humor was so constant indeed, that at first Valorie failed to
                        recognize the deeper things in his nature.
                    It was not until she met him under more trying circumstances that she began to understand what
                        stuff he was made of. As mistress of the plantation it was Valorie's function to care
                        for all those who might fall ill, and late in the autumn one of the negro women was very ill
                        indeed. It was in his tireless attendance upon this patient that Greg Tazewell unconsciously
                        revealed himself at his best to the singularly alert perceptions of the young woman.
                    The case was a desperate one, and he met it with desperate determination and with all of skill he
                        could command. Night after night he remained in the negro cabin, engaged in a fight for a human
                        life. With his own hands he administered experimental treatments that he dared not leave to
                        hands less skilled than his. Upon rare occasions he went to the great house for a meal; usually,
                        however, he asked that something for him to eat might be sent  to
                        the cabin, he feeling that he must not leave his patient for a moment.
                    The crisis came at night and Valorie remained with him by the bedside until nearly morning. As
                        she looked at him he seemed to her very weary, but not for one moment did he relax his attention
                        to his patient. For thrice twenty-four hours he had had no sleep except such naps as he caught
                        while sitting upon a backless stool before the cabin fire. On this night of crisis he had not
                        closed his eyes at all. Indeed, Valorie reflected, he had not even sat down for a moment
                        throughout the long hours, and his young face was haggard as she saw it now in the flickering
                        firelight, in itself suggestive of that going out of life which he was battling to prevent.
                    At last, after another examination of the patient, his features seemed to relax, something of its
                        customary joyousness returned to his countenance, and quitting the bedside, he threw three or
                        four sticks of wood upon the long-neglected fire. Then turning to Valorie he said:
                    "You had better go to the house and to  bed. The necessity
                        for watching is over."
                    "Is Jane to die then, after all?"
                    "No. She will get well. Go now and get some rest. Only nursing will be needed and the
                        negro women can attend to that, if you see them three or four times a day. Go. I don't
                        want you for a patient."
                    "But how about yourself, doctor?"
                    "Me? Oh, I am all right. I'm tough, you know. I must remain here for an hour or
                        so longer. Then I'll go to the house, get Henry to bring me a tub of cold water, and
                        present myself at breakfast as fresh as the morning. But you must go. It is five
                        o'clock. You must get several hours' sleep before the breakfast
                        hour."
                    "Thank you, I'll try," she said. Then looking at him earnestly, she
                        said:
                    "I admire heroes, and surely you are one."
                    "Oh, no, not at all. Only a doctor. I'll put it all into my bill."
                    The flippancy was meant as a parrying of embarrassing praise, but it shocked Valorie and
                        distressed her. Her own sympathy with the sick woman had been so long under strain  that release from it brought to her only a chastened, solemn,
                        thankful rejoicing. She knew nothing of the necessity a physician is under to control his
                        sympathies as he must control other emotions, reducing all of them to a principle rather than
                        merely a feeling. Nor did she recognize Greg Tazewell's purpose in this instance, which
                        was to relieve her mind by his own lightness of manner and speech, and to assure her by his tone
                        that his confident prediction of his patient's recovery was surely destined to
                        fulfillment.
                    Her admiration of him was great, but it was tempered just now by disappointment.
                    When he appeared at the breakfast table, announcing that after an hour's sleep he had
                        induced Henry to pour a dozen bucketsful of frost-sharpened water over his person, so that he
                        felt quite young again, she was troubled with the thought that after all, his devotion to his
                        patient had been born solely of professional enthusiasm, and that no touch of genuine human
                        sympathy had redeemed it. But presently, during a lull in the table talk, he turned to her with
                        all the earnestness in his face that  she had seen there during
                        his struggle with the malady and said:
                    "I've seen Jane again. I went there just before coming to breakfast.
                        She's going to get well, but I wish you'd detail some more sympathetic person
                        than Lizzie to act as her nurse. Lizzie is impatient with her and a very little friction might
                        set her recovery back. I wonder if Elsie could be spared."
                    As he made this appeal, saying more with his eyes and his mobile face than in the words he
                        uttered, Valorie felt that she was justified in again setting him upon his pedestal as a hero.
                    Her reply was prompt.
                    "I'll send Elsie to stay until nightfall. After that I shall be there myself.
                        Elsie is gentle and kindly, but at night she'd go to sleep. I'll watch
                        to-night myself."
                    "Believe me, it isn't necessary," he replied, "and you are
                        already "
                    "I'm young and strong," she answered. "I do not want the
                        scientific results you have achieved to be sacrificed by any failure of care."
                    
                    There was a note of bitterness in her tone. He observed it, but made no reply.
                    When breakfast was done she told him that a messenger had come for him from a distant plantation
                        and was waiting to speak with him. He asked that the messenger might be brought to him, and when
                        the boy come he asked:
                    "Who is ill at the Oaks?"
                    "Uncle Michael, Mas' Greg. His rheumatiz is awful bad. He's
                        mos' daid."
                    "Very well," answered the doctor going to his saddlebags and compounding a
                        lotion. "Have him rubbed with this, and keep the rubbing up till he is ready to go to
                        sleep. Tell your master I could do nothing more for him if I were there, and tell him I am bound
                        to remain here for the day. If Michael grows worse and I don't think he will tell your
                        master he will have to send for another physician. I simply cannot leave here till night. A life
                        might depend upon my presence. Do you understand?"
                    Satisfied from the bewildered look in the negro's face that he did not understand, he
                        said:
                    
                    "Wait a minute. I'll send a note to your master."
                    With that he went to the desk that stood in the hall of every old Virginia house for the use of
                        all who needed to write, and tried to pen a missive. Presently he turned to Phil Shenstone and
                        besought him to act as amanuensis, saying:
                    "My hand is too unsteady to write."
                    Phil signaled to Valorie, and she instantly seated herself at the desk to take the dictation.
                        When it was done and the messenger had gone, she turned to Tazewell with a world of tender
                        sympathy in her look and said:
                    "If we are not to have another patient to care for, doctor, you must go to bed. Your
                        room is ready for you, and I'll see to it that all household noises are suppressed. I
                        will even forbid Uncle Butler and Mr. Phil to talk at any point less remote than the stables.
                        But tell me; is the old man Michael in sore need of your presence?"
                    "Yes, and no. He is suffering greatly, I have no doubt. But I could do nothing more than
                        I have done by sending him the lotion  and ordering prolonged
                        massage. He is eighty years old, he says. He has chronic rheumatism, and in the natural course
                        of events it is going to kill him presently. I couldn't prevent that if I were present.
                        It isn't like Jane's case in which we had the strong constitution of a
                        vigorous young woman to build upon. Michael is ten miles away, and I simply must not quit this
                        plantation till I see Jane asleep after ten o'clock tonight."
                    Seeing a queer look in the girl's face, and misinterpreting it, he hastily added:
                    "Oh, she's going to get well, you may rest assured. But for this first day of
                        her recovery I must watch her, and I will. I've no notion of letting all we've
                        done be wasted."
                    Again Valorie was shocked and distressed. Again she misinterpreted his meaning and misunderstood
                        the spirit in which he had spoken. It seemed to her that he had no care for the human life he
                        had saved, for the woman and mother whom his skill and tireless devotion had snatched from the
                        grasp of death and was presently to restore to her brood of 
                        little children. It seemed to her that his concern was solely for the results his science had
                        achieved, with no touch or trace of tender human sympathy and compassion in it.
                    Nevertheless she was quick to recognize his own exhaustion as that was illustrated by his
                        tremulous inability to control a pen. With full faith in the accepted therapeutics of the time
                        and country, she asked him if she should not bring him a dram.
                    "No, my dear Miss Page," he answered. "In cases of actual exhaustion I
                        sometimes prescribe alcoholic stimulation. But I never resort to it as a means of steadying
                        shaken nerves or repairing the results of mere fatigue. In such ways alcohol is effective for
                        the moment, but in the end it is what Solomon called wine a mocker. My nerves are shamefully
                        unsettled, but that is only because for the space of four hours last night, I stood facing death
                        and fighting it. During all that time I had reason to fear we should lose in the struggle and
                        that in spite of all I might do, that poor woman must die. Now that we have won the game and I
                        am freed from the terrible  apprehension, there is a very natural
                        relaxation and my nerves have given way under it. I need only to sleep a little. If I may, I
                        will accept your invitation and go to my room for two hours. At the end of that time, please
                        have me waked without fail. Jane will take nourishment then, and I must be
                        there to see it administered and observe the results."
                    Again Valorie misunderstood. His phrase about observing results suggested to her anew that his
                        interest in Jane was neither personal nor human, but purely, and very coldly scientific.
                    He did not leave Woodlands until the next day, not until he was able to leave Jane in
                        Elsie's charge in full assurance that her convalescence was certain.
                    As he was leaving he seemed to seek converse with Valorie, and Phil, who was warming his back in
                        front of the great wood fire in the hall, suddenly remembered some duty that required his
                        instant withdrawal from the house. These were two gentlemen of Virginia, neither of whom would
                        think of standing in the other's way in the slightest particular.  When he had gone, young Tazewell took Valorie's hand, and looking into
                        her eyes scrutinizingly, said:
                    "I'm afraid you don't approve of me?"
                    She returned the gaze unflinchingly and answered:
                    "I do, and I don't. I know you are a hero, but sometimes I think your devotion
                        to science makes you cold-blooded."
                    He looked at her intently for a moment. Then he said, with emphasis:
                    "Appearances are sometimes deceptive, but one doesn't know himself half as well
                        as others know him. You may be right. Good-bye. I shall not need to see Jane again. Tell Elsie
                        to carry out the instructions I have given her. What a superb morning it is! I think I shall
                        ride twenty miles or so just to enjoy being alive. Good day."
                    He was gone, and Valorie wondered if she had offended him. For Valorie was only a little more
                        than eighteen years old and she was sensitive as regards others.
                    Besides she really did regard Greg Tazewell as a hero.
                
                
                
                    XV
                    
                        P
                        HIL SHENSTONE had found it necessary to prolong his stay in Virginia
                        indefinitely for several reasons. For one thing his letters from Louisiana convinced him that
                        there was serious danger impending over Valorie's head. He said nothing of this either
                        to Valorie or to his uncle, but to Greg Tazewell he talked of it, though very guardedly, and in
                        the privacy of Tazewell's bachelor home.
                    "I want you to know certain things, Greg, that may arise to annoy Valorie. I am not
                        going to tell you her story in detail. There are reasons why I should not do that as
                        yet."
                    "I can well believe that," answered the doctor, "and of course, I
                        should never tolerate in myself anything remotely resembling an impertinent curiosity concerning
                        the personal  history of a young lady whose character I esteem so
                        highly. You and I both stand ready to minister in every possible way to the welfare of a young
                        lady whom we both esteem. I am ready to do that to the utmost limit of the law, and as far
                        beyond that limit as may be necessary."
                    "I know all that, my dear fellow," answered Phil, with a certain touch not
                        exactly of melancholy, but of resignation in his tone. "I know all that and I reckon
                        upon it."
                    "Do you know, Phil, that you have a very bad habit of interrupting? I was going on to
                        say, that, holding this attitude, I want you to tell me precisely so much of Miss Valorie
                        Page's history or situation, or whatever else it is, as you may think it desirable for
                        me to know, and not one word more. So far as serving her, or defending her, or doing anything
                        and everything else for her is concerned, I am ready, in poker slang, to 'go it
                        blind.'"
                    "Thank you," said Phil. Then he sat for a long time in silence, as if ordering
                        his thoughts. At last he arose, filled a longstemmed Powhatan pipe, lighted it, and  smoked for a while in silence. Finally he said:
                    "All that I need tell you now is that Valorie is in danger through a perversion of the
                        law. I am staying here to meet that danger and I may need your help."
                    "Excuse me for interrupting," said the other, "but I have already said
                        that any and every help I can render shall be forthcoming whenever you call for it."
                    "Thank you. I knew that before. Now I have fully considered this matter, and I have made
                        up my mind. If the danger comes, it will be through court processes, and with my
                        uncle's ingenious knowledge of the law, I shall fight the peril in the courts as long
                        as there is a leg to stand upon there. If I am beaten in that, I shall fight it with
                        shotguns."
                    "That is all right," cheerfully answered the other. "My shotgun is
                        ready and so is its owner, Greg Tazewell, A. M., M. D., Ph. D., country doctor, planter and by
                        no means a bad wing shot, as you can testify."
                    "I know, Greg. I only wanted you to be  prepared for
                        emergencies. I should have counted upon you at any rate."
                    Having decided to remain in Virginia thus indefinitely, Phil Shenstone planned to put in his time
                        in those studies of which he felt the need as a supplement to his interrupted education. To that
                        end he decided to remove himself from Woodlands to his own nearly worthless little plantation of
                        Fox Harbor, where there was a comfortable little dwelling house, and where he thought the
                        ministrations of his seventeen more or less decrepit negroes, old and young, might serve to keep
                        a home going.
                    "I shall have three regular cooks," he said to Valorie, "and two
                        extras. From such observations as I have been able to make, at least one of the regular cooks
                        will recognize her fitness for duty each day, and if not, perhaps the extras will be able to
                        give me my breakfast. If worse comes to worst, it is only three miles to Woodlands.
                        I've a negro boy who can clean dry mud off my boots, under my personal superintendence,
                        and I do not despair  of teaching him to do other small services.
                        There are two women who profess a certain acquaintance with the mysteries of laundry work, so
                        that on the whole I shall be able to live, perhaps, especially as I shall be sustained by the
                        consoling reflection that I am a landed proprietor."
                    At that point in the conversation, Colonel Shenstone appeared and, having caught some part of the
                        conversation, demanded to know the rest of the matter. After Phil had explained his plan, the
                        old gentleman, whose gout was giving him a good deal of trouble that day, broke out into a
                        passionate denunciation of his nephew's ingratitude, and ended by
                        "daring" him again so much as to hint at the possibility of his quitting
                        Woodlands for any other place whatever, so long as he should remain in Virginia. The old
                        gentleman's tone was wrathful, but as he afterwards gently explained the wrath was
                        directed, not against Phil, but at the twinges of gout that were torturing him. Having finished
                        his speech he started to hobble out of the room, but presently stopping, he dropped into a chair
                        and  resting his foot upon a stool, which Valorie was alert to
                        place conveniently, said:
                    "Phil, my dear boy, I'm growing old and I need you. I can't even look
                        after the plantation half the time now, and there are other things of vastly greater importance
                        that you must take off my shoulders. Forgive me if I was harsh "
                    "Not another word, Uncle, I beg of you. We are two gentlemen of Virginia, and we
                        understand each other without apologies. I am ready to help you in every way I can."
                    "Yes, I know that. I shall be better in a day or two, and then we must set to work
                        together over some papers. In the meanwhile I wish you'd send a boy over for Dr.
                        Tazewell. He generally manages to ease my gout."
                    So the conversation ended in amity, and Phil Shenstone abandoned his purpose of quitting
                        Woodlands for a residence of his own.
                
                
                
                    XVI
                    
                        D
                        URING Tazewell's stay at Woodlands, prolonged until Col.
                        Shenstone's suffering from gout was mercifully alleviated, he had opportunity for
                        converse with Valorie and he made the fullest possible use of it. It was the best of his habits
                        never to neglect an opportunity.
                    One evening when the Indian summer had brought a soft warm atmosphere, and the moon, a little
                        short of the full, was flooding the landscape with its mellow, soothing light, he and she met in
                        the porch. The moonlight tempted them, and without plan or purpose they wandered away to the
                        edge of the woodlands, and gazed into the blackness beyond without speech, where speech was
                        unnecessary. The glory of the evening was enough. But when a young woman and a young man are
                        thus strolling together in the moonlight,  there comes to both at
                        last a vague feeling that speech of some sort is requisite, if only to avoid misapprehension. So
                        presently Valorie said, "Jane is well again, thanks to your skill, Doctor."
                    "Thanks to my reckless daring, rather," he replied.
                    "How do you mean?" she asked.
                    "Why, when I saw that she must die under any recognized treatment, I tried an experiment
                        upon her which I had long been thinking of. It was a desperate chance, but as she must die
                        without it, I decided at last to try it and it succeeded. I saved Jane's life by doing
                        what all the books and all the authorities condemn, and I have had to exercise a good deal of
                        self-control to avoid boasting in the report I have made of the case in the medical journals. It
                        was a hazardous experiment. It might have hastened death by many hours, but it succeeded in
                        saving a life and it has been a joy to me to report the case for the instruction of
                        others."
                    Valorie utterly misinterpreted his mood and his meaning.
                    
                    "Then Jane was only a 'subject' to you, a person who offered you an
                        opportunity for experimentation. You didn't care whether she lived or died. You had no
                        concern for her brood of little children. She was to you only a negro slave woman worth five
                        hundred dollars to her master, or about that, and you were anxious to save her life only in the
                        interest of her owner, but seeing that ordinary means to that end were likely to prove
                        ineffective, you decided to make her the subject of a scientific experiment at risk of
                        shortening her life by those hours which Divine Providence was granting her, perhaps, for
                        repentance and the saving of her immortal soul. I am shocked, distressed, horrified. Let me go
                        back to the house. Stay here till I enter the grounds. Good night. I am sorry to part with you
                        thus."
                    It was obviously futile to follow the young woman or to attempt speech in explanation. The
                        entrance to the house grounds was less than a quarter of a mile away, and the flooding moonlight
                        enabled the young man to see her clearly throughout that distance as she  hurriedly retreated. He followed slowly, and half an hour later he was telling
                        Phil Shenstone the details of the quarrel.
                    "She will think differently of the matter," said Phil, "when she
                        understands; and I will see that she understands."
                    There was an ache at his heart as he gave the promise, for he saw in Valorie's
                        resentment of what she thought unworthy in Greg Tazewell, the surest of all possible signs that
                        the young physician had awakened a dangerously active interest in her heart, and, while he
                        persuaded himself that he was not Greg Tazewell's rival in that respect, he
                        nevertheless was saddened by the discovery, and he found himself all the next morning, planning
                        an early return to his business affairs in the West.
                    He was a gentleman, however, and as such his loyalty to his friend dominated every other impulse
                        in his mind.
                    So on that morning, after Tazewell had taken his departure, Phil asked Valorie to ride with him
                        to the little plantation he had inherited, and on which he was trying to devise a  scheme by which his negroes might be made self-supporting, or
                        nearly so. There were some good apple trees on the place and Phil had ordered the apples
                        gathered a month or so earlier and stored in the cellar, with no very definite idea of what he
                        should do with them, but with an instinctive impulse to prevent waste. Valorie had almost a
                        child's appetite for apples, and as there were some specially fine varieties among
                        these, Phil ordered plates, napkins and fruit knives, and set her to eating them in the porch,
                        for the Indian summer weather was still favorable to indulgence in the out-of-doors. After he
                        had peeled an Albemarle pippin for her, he entered upon the conversation for which he had
                        brought her forth.
                    "You are displeased with Greg," he said, half assertively, half questioningly.
                    "Yes," she said, and she said no more, a fact that left him with an awkward
                        conversational problem to solve. He waited awhile before venturing further to question her, for
                        Valorie had a strange way of thinking for herself, which seemed to have come to her  since her residence at Woodlands had begun, and it puzzled Phil
                        Shenstone a good deal. That was because he knew nothing of the difference between a girl,
                        accustomed to have her thinking and her life dominated by persons in authority such a girl as
                        she had been when she came to Woodlands and a woman permitted and encouraged to think for
                        herself such as she had become under his own tutelage and still more under the tutelage and the
                        generous comradery of Colonel Shenstone. At last he said, however:
                    "I think you misunderstand and misinterpret him. I wish you would tell me all that is in
                        your mind."
                    "Thank you, Mr. Phil, I will," she said, with eagerness, tossing the apple from
                        her plate to the hens before the door, rinsing her fingers and drying them.
                        "I'm glad to do so. He puzzles me. I can't make him out. He does
                        things in a heroic, self-sacrificing way, that makes me think of him as well, as one of
                        God's own but he spoils all that by saying things that show me how cold-blooded he is,
                        and convince me that after all, he feels  no human sympathy, that
                        all his efforts are inspired only by a cold, scientific desire to find out things."
                    Then she went on, passionately, to relate all that had occurred at the bedside of the negro
                        woman, Jane, and all that had occurred afterwards, ending with an account of what he had said
                        the night before with regard to the desperate experiment he had made in Jane's case.
                    "Of course that was right enough," she said, "so far as the experiment
                        itself was concerned. Jane would have died if he had not made it. But he seems more interested
                        in the result of the experiment than in the saving of Jane's life, and that is what
                        makes me mad pardon me, I should say that is what angers me."
                    "Your first phrase was good enough," he replied. "It was idiomatic
                        English, and I like that better than the English of the rhetoric books."
                    "I wish you wouldn't do that," she said, impatiently.
                    "Do what, Valorie?"
                    
                    "Why talk in that cold-blooded way when we're discussing things that tear my
                        soul to pieces. When you do that I don't like you any better than I do Dr. Tazewell. It
                        is all words, words, words, and I hate words when they do not express thought and feeling. Why
                        don't you say something to satisfy me something about what we have been talking about?
                        "
                    "I'm coming to that presently," he responded. "I want you to
                        be in a mood to listen calmly before I begin on that theme. I'll go and give Niah some
                        directions, and perhaps when I come back you'll be sufficiently self-possessed to
                        listen. I'll be back in ten minutes."
                    As he went away the girl rose and promenaded the porch three or four times. Then she tripped down
                        the steps and plucked a belated chrysanthemum, which she held in her tremulous hands as a means
                        of self-control.
                    "He is pleading for his friend," she thought, "as if it were for
                        himself. I wonder why he does that? Why should he care what I think of Dr. Greg Tazewell, and
                        never  care to find out what I think of himself?"
                    "I want to tell you about Tazewell," he said, when they were seated again.
                        "He is altogether a hero. His whole life, and all his abilities are given up to the
                        service of humanity. There isn't a selfish thought in his being, and what you condemn
                        as his cold-bloodedness is only his enthusiasm. Let me tell you. He inherited a plantation and
                        negroes, as you know, which assured him a luxurious living. He might have been content with
                        that, and most young men would have been. But his is a generous nature. He could not reconcile
                        himself to the leading of a life of ease. He read philosophy, English, German and French. He
                        accepted the thought that every men is in debt to the world for all of good that it gives him.
                        He set out to render the world a service commensurate with its good gifts to him. He studied
                        medicine in Philadelphia. Then he went abroad for several years, to equip himself more
                        perfectly. On his return he might have settled in some great city with the certainty of winning
                        renown. But it was not renown that he sought. He  wanted to render
                        service. He was convinced that a physician so well equipped as he was, could do more in the way
                        of investigation and discovery for the benefit of mankind, in a country practice in Virginia,
                        where there were negroes of strong constitution to experiment upon, than in any other way. So
                        putting aside all selfish considerations, he settled down here. Let me tell you some of the
                        results. A year or two ago, by experiment, he invented a device which is now in use by
                        physicians everywhere, and which has wrought something like miracles in the alleviation of human
                        suffering and the saving of human life. Recently he has devised another thing for the treatment
                        and cure of a distressing malady which until now has been open only to temporary alleviation. So
                        important is this that his old instructors in Paris have summoned him to go to France next
                        spring to expound it for the benefit of humanity. Now in Jane's case, he saw a woman
                        about to die. No recognized treatment could save her. He had long had in mind a treatment which
                        he believed might prove effective. He had never  dared try it, but
                        in a case like that, where death was certain without it, he ventured. He saved Jane's
                        life, and that meant much to him, but can you blame him if his chief concern was for the other
                        lives that were to be saved by his demonstration of the efficacy of the treatment? Can you
                        wonder that the results of the experiment seem to him of far greater consequence than the person
                        on whom it was made? "
                    "I have been wrong," she said. "He is the hero I thought him to be
                        before I misjudged him. Thank you for telling me."
                    As she rose and passed into the house the tears glistened upon her cheeks, and Phil Shenstone
                        utterly misinterpreted their appearance there. How was he to know that they were tears of
                        admiration for his own generosity in so unselfishly pleading the cause of his friend?
                
                
                
                    XVII
                    
                        T
                        HE two rode at a walk on their homeward journey. Both were engaged in
                        perplexed thought, and neither seemed disposed to rapid motion, though they had contagiously
                        spirited horses under them.
                    With the quick perception of a woman who admires and loves, but who does not acknowledge even to
                        herself that she loves, for the reason that her love has not been openly asked, Valorie saw that
                        Phil had misunderstood her emotion, and she knew far better than he did, all that was in her
                        companion's mind. With the defensive instinct of proud womanhood, she felt it to be her
                        highest duty to herself to ignore his misinterpretation or even to confirm it if opportunity
                        should offer. "If he chooses to think well in the way he does " she reflected,
                        "he must go on thinking so. He  hasn't asked me
                        for an explanation and until he does, I certainly shall not offer any. I would crucify my own
                        soul rather than do that."
                    Phil, on his part, reflected:
                    "She has often expressed gratitude to me for rescuing her from the life she was destined
                        to lead. She likes me in a way, and if I should ask her to love me she would answer yes,
                        sincerely believing that her answer was true, though in fact all of love that is in her belongs
                        to Greg Tazewell. Her very antagonism to him when she thinks she discovers anything unworthy in
                        his conduct or his attitude of mind, is sufficient proof of that. She so far worships him that
                        she is madly jealous of anything and everything that tends to impair her ideal of his
                        perfection. It is perfectly certain that she would accept any proffer of love I might make to
                        her, and all her life she would loyally compel herself to believe in her love for me. But I know
                        better. She loves Greg Tazewell and he loves her. He is my friend and she is in a peculiar way
                        the subject of my care and guardianship. I must  not betray my
                        friend even to gain the one supreme desire of my life, and still more imperatively, I must not
                        mar her life by linking it with my own when love prompts her to unite it with that of another.
                        It is said truly that renunciation and self-sacrifice are the secure bases of all religions that
                        have appealed to human kind, the inspiration of all heroism. Now I am no hero; I am only a
                        steamboat man; but at any rate I am a gentleman. I desire Valorie's happiness in life
                        far more than I care for my own. On the whole it is time for me to go back to the western waters
                        and attend to my own affairs."
                    With this thought in his mind he broke the silence that had so long endured between the two.
                    "Val," he said, "I find I must go back to the West almost immediately.
                        There are matters there that need my attention. We have been building three new steamboats for
                        the trade between Cincinnati and St. Louis, and they are to go into commission at once. You see
                        there is a great tide of emigration from the East to the Missouri River country,  and every boat we can set going will be black with a multitude of
                        passengers and flaming red with a cargo of farm wagons, plows, harrows, hay-rakes and every
                        other sort of agricultural implement. Every trip of every steamboat will make a small fortune
                        for us, and it seems necessary that I, as the largest single stockholder, should be there to
                        look after the business."
                    It was well that he was not looking at Valorie's face as he said all this. As it was,
                        she had time in which to control her emotions before he had finished. She was tempted to remind
                        him of what he had told her that he was a rich man, that he had money enough, that his partners
                        in all his steamboat ventures were men capable of managing affairs without his help, and all the
                        rest of it.
                    Instead, she said:
                    "Of course, you are right. In what you have done for me you have wasted time that must
                        be precious to your business interests. I shall be sorry, of course, to miss our very pleasant
                        daily intercourse, but that is a matter of no consequence in comparison with your  large business interests. You can easily arrange for the care of
                        your negroes at Fox Harbor."
                    Again he misunderstood her, as, in the pride of her womanhood she meant that he should. He
                        accepted her response as meaning that on the whole she would be glad to have his presence taken
                        out of her life at this emotional juncture.
                    "Oh, yes," he answered, nonchalantly. "It is only a question of
                        feeding and clothing those helpless creatures. Fox Harbor adjoins Greg Tazewell's
                        plantation. I shall ask him to annex it in a sense. I'll leave a sum of money subject
                        to his order, and ask him to see that these people of mine have an abundance to eat and plenty
                        of clothes. As for the house, I reckon I'll board that up."
                    It was a full minute before Valorie answered. Perhaps she was afraid of betraying too tender an
                        emotion in answering. If that was her purpose, she accomplished it, for when she did answer it
                        was in a level, equable voice and in terms that restrained sentiment within entirely
                        conventional bounds.
                    
                    "That would be a pity, I think. The house is an old one, and though it is now shorn of
                        the broad domain of which it was once the centre, it has a history of hospitality. Why not leave
                        it open? I will go over there once or twice a week and see that your servants keep it in order.
                        Then once a year when your birthday comes, if you'll tell me when that is,
                        I'll give a dining day there to your friends and in your honor. You have done so much
                        for me, Mr. Phil, that I shall be glad if you'll let me do that much for you, just in
                        memory of our pleasant six months of association."
                    If any thing had been needed to convince Shenstone of the correctness of his interpretation of
                        the girl's attitude, this friendly but seemingly unemotional utterance would have
                        sufficed. It was clear to him that friendship and gratitude were the warmest sentiments she
                        entertained for him. It was obvious to him that his plan of going at once to the West, and
                        taking himself out of Valorie's life was the only wise one, the only one that promised
                        the highest happiness for her. As for himself he did not include himself in the reckoning.
                    
                    And Valorie? As she neared her journey's end she gave rein to her horse and finished in
                        a gallop. It seemed to her that she must break down and reveal herself in a way that would
                        destroy her with shame, if she did not quickly reach her own room and vent her feelings in the
                        natural, feminine way, a good cry. She saw slipping away from her all that she had
                        subconsciously hoped for in life, all that life promised to her soul. Even yet her pride would
                        not let her admit to herself that she loved Phil Shenstone. Indeed the very thought of such a
                        thing, angered her and offended her armour propre beyond endurance. She
                        resolutely refused to believe it. She resented it as an insult to her womanhood. She
                        passionately denied it to her own soul, with which she was now in intense antagonism because of
                        its impulse toward a love that was unasked and therefore shamefully impossible.
                    In her agitation it was her hope that she might preserve the outward seeming of equanimity until
                        such time as she should reach the seclusion of her room.
                    But as the two approached the horse block  in front of the house
                        grounds, she saw a negro boy leading Greg Tazewell's horse to the stables, and
                        instantly the fear that Colonel Shenstone was ill again seized upon her mind and dominated it to
                        the exclusion of all personal concerns and to the suppression of every emotion that had self for
                        its subject or its object. For Valorie Page had learned to love Colonel Shenstone with all the
                        passion possible to a daughter's devotion, and the thought of his renewed suffering
                        drove all other thoughts out of her mind.
                    The moment she reached the entrance to the house grounds, she slipped from her saddle without
                        waiting for Phil's help or for anything else, and, gathering up the absurdly long
                        riding habit that Virginia Amazons always used on horseback, fled like a startled fawn to the
                        porch where she saw Greg Tazewell carefully dropping some medicine into a glass.
                    "Tell me!" she cried, seizing his arm and disturbing his count; "is
                        Uncle Butler very ill?"
                    With that scientific calm, which in him was often so irritating to Valorie's nerves, he
                            
                        
                            "TELL ME!
                                IS UNCLE BUTLER VERY
                                ILL?" Page 150.
                            
                        
                         emptied the contents of the glass upon the ground beyond the
                        rail, turned to the servant in attendance and said:
                    "Bring me another wine glass. No, leave that one where it is" seeing the negro
                        about to pick it up. "I want another. Plunge it into hot water for a full minute, and
                        then bring it to me, dry and hot." Then turning to Valorie he answered:
                    "Colonel Shenstone has another attack of gout. I'll tell you about it
                        presently. Just now I must prepare his medicine, and one drop too much might well, it might make
                        a difference."
                    She shrank back, almost as if she had received a blow, and waited until the servant should return
                        with the glass and the doctor should drop his medicine. He said not one word in the meantime, so
                        intent was he upon his function and when he had done he passed into the house, still in silence,
                        to administer the draught. It was not until he returned that he addressed her. When he did so,
                        there was a note of sarcasm, she thought, in what he said.
                    
                    "Pardon me," he began; "but you object I believe to scientific ways,
                        and especially to experiments. Colonel Shenstone's gout has taken a form that seriously
                        endangers his life, and he is fully conscious of the fact. With his full permission, and active
                        sanction, I am giving him a very heroic treatment, one that ordinarily I should not venture to
                        give to any but a man of middle life or younger, and very robust at that. It is an experiment in
                        your uncle's case, and I must watch effects very carefully. To that end I must stay at
                        Woodlands night and day for a time. I wonder if you could have a couch for me placed in his
                        room. I must see him at all hours."
                    If he had hit her in the face with a horsewhip, the girl could scarcely have been more severely
                        stung. His impulse had been partly one of self-justification, partly one of explanation, and
                        partly one of apology. She interpreted it as one of rebuke and defiance, and the worst of it was
                        that after Phil Shenstone's explanation made that morning, she felt bitterly that she
                        deserved all of rebuke and re-reproach the young doctor could heap upon  her. It was that consciousness of ill desert indeed which gave keenest sting to
                        his words. Had they been wanton her pride would have been panoply enough against their power to
                        wound. But feeling as she did that she deserved them and worse, she could summon no resentment
                        to ward them off or soften their severity.
                    Had she been a weaker woman she would have burst into tears and retreated to the seclusion of her
                        own room. Being in fact a woman of strong character and extraordinary self-control, she faced
                        him instead and said:
                    "You have misjudged me, Doctor, as I have misjudged you. Mr. Phil has been explaining
                        things to me, and I see now how wrongfully I have interpreted your attitude. Please let us be
                        friends, and whatever you can do to restore Uncle Butler to health shall have my
                        gratitude." She paused before adding:
                    "I sincerely beg your pardon."
                    For answer he took her hand, pressed it for a moment, and then, with the courtesy of an older
                        time that was not yet quite dead in Virginia, raised it reverently to his lips.
                    
                    "We understand each other," he said, "and there should be nothing
                        between us to forgive. You are a brave woman brave enough to hear the truth. Colonel
                        Shenstone's present attack is the most dangerous one he has ever had. Previous attacks
                        have subjected him to severe pain, but to nothing worse. This one threatens something more
                        serious."
                    "Do you mean that it endangers his life?"
                    "I fear I must say yes, but I do not despair. His gout is inherited. His own habits have
                        always been good even abstemious. His constitution is strong, and because of that I have decided
                        to pardon the phrase if it offends you make this hazardous experiment in his case. Foreseeing as
                        I do, that unless something can be done for the eradication of the disease, he is pretty certain
                        to succumb to it very soon, and recognizing the strength of his constitution as a substitute for
                        youthful vigor, I have decided to pardon the phrase again make the experiment. I am giving him
                        steadily increasing doses of a powerful drug. I shall press the treatment to the limit of
                        constitutional endurance, in the hope of  eliminating from his
                        system the poison that gives him his attacks. I tell you frankly that I never gave such a
                        treatment to a man of his age before, and that even in the case of younger men I should never
                        think of giving it unless I could stay night and day with the patient, watching every symptom.
                        But I also tell you frankly that unless some such treatment is given to him successfully,
                        Colonel Shenstone cannot live to see another spring. I ask you frankly to say whether or not I
                        am right in making the experiment?"
                    For answer she took his hand and said simply, "Thank you, and may God prosper your
                        experiment."
                    Then she went into the house and ordered a couch placed for him on one side of Colonel
                        Shenstone's bed and on the other an easy chair for herself.
                
                
                
                    XVIII
                    
                        W
                        HEN two persons of reasonable mind have had a little quarrel and have made it
                        up, they are very apt to grow closer together because of the difference. When the two persons
                        involved in the quarrel and the reconciliation happen to be a young man and a young woman, they
                        are very apt to let the newly established relations of friendship develop into the tenderer
                        relations of love. A young man and a young woman so placed, are very apt to decide that on the
                        whole they wish to become husband and wife. This is a general statement of probabilities, and
                        nothing more.
                    As Colonel Shenstone's fine constitution yielded to the heroic treatment prescribed by
                        Greg Tazewell, and he began to grow better, there were many opportunities and invitations to
                        intimate converse between Greg Tazewell  and Valorie Page, and
                        they made the most of them.
                    Valorie was still penitent as to her former misjudgment of the young doctor, and she sought
                        opportunity to make amends. One evening, as they two strolled through the house grounds, each
                        seeking relaxation from the strain of watching by the Colonel's bedside, Valorie said
                        something so affectionate as to the doctor's care of her uncle, that he lost his head
                        and said in reply:
                    "Why should not you and I become his watchers, his guardians, his tender nurses from
                        this time forth? I love you, Valorie. Say that you can love me in return."
                    "I cannot say that," she answered after a moment's hesitation.
                        "I have a great esteem for you, Doctor, and an abiding affection because of what you
                        have done and are doing for Uncle Butler. Indeed you can never know how grateful I am to you.
                        But gratitude is no fit return for a love such as you suggest. I feel even a greater gratitude
                        to well to others but this is not love. I cannot give you love for love, and so there must be an
                        end  of that between us. I hope and believe that we shall remain
                        devoted friends, but you mustn't ask for more."
                    Feeling that it might be embarrassing to him either to plead or not to plead, she turned and
                        hurried into the house.
                    When next they two met alone, he said something which seemed to her to be a prelude to the
                        reopening of the question. She instantly responded:
                    "Please don't. My decision is final. It would only distress us both to reopen
                        the question. Let me ask you to tell me instead about the success or failure of your experiment
                        with Uncle Butler."
                    "It is succeeding far better than I dared hope," he answered. "He will
                        be up again within a few days, and I confidently believe he will have no more attacks of this
                        dangerous nature. He will have twinges, of course, but nothing more, I hope, of this dangerous
                        soft. I shall report the results of the experiment in the medical journals."
                    Instantly she was in arms again.
                    
                    "Of course you will. You'd have done that if he had died under the treatment.
                        How I hate your science!" and with that she retreated to her room, there to mourn over
                        her fault in so resenting a scientific impulse which she knew to be in the merciful interest of
                        humanity. An hour later she apologized and they two were friends again.
                    As Colonel Shenstone recovered he became more and more impressed with the danger his precarious
                        health involved for others. On the day on which Greg Tazewell left him to complete his recovery
                        under Valorie's care, he sent for Phil.
                    "My boy," he said, "so far as my own affairs are concerned, everything
                        is perfectly arranged. But I have a lot of other people's business on my hands, and my
                        death, which is liable to occur at any time now, might result in serious trouble to many quite
                        innocent people. I am the administrator of several estates, the executor of many wills. It is
                        necessary that some one shall be prepared to take my place in the event of my death "
                    
                    "But you are not going to die, Uncle," interrupted Phil. "We are not
                        ready to consent to that."
                    "I quite understand," said the old soldier. "When I went into the
                        battles of Molino el Rey and Cherubusco, and Chapultepec, it was fully understood that I was to
                        come out alive and well. So it was at Buena Vista and at every other fight I was ever engaged
                        in. Nevertheless there was always the chance that a bullet might change the programme. So it is
                        now. Before going into those battles I always called some friends about me and told them what I
                        wanted done in case of my death. In the same spirit I invoke your assistance now. No, not quite
                        in the same spirit, for Dr. Tazewell tells me I am likely to live on indefinitely, now that he
                        has succeeded in expelling the gout from my system. The real trouble is that even though I live,
                        I shall not be able to attend to business, and there is a deal of business to be attended to. I
                        must rely upon you to act for me."
                    Here surely was an awkward situation. Phil Shenstone had already begun the packing  of his trunks against the time of his departure for the West. His
                        duty to his uncle seemed to forbid that departure altogether. But there was no real and
                        necessary reason for his going West, while there was every reason of affection and loyalty for
                        his staying to assume the responsibilities which his uncle felt it necessary to resign.
                    For many days he spent long hours in Colonel Shenstone's room, going over papers and
                        mastering details, and so far acquainting himself with the old lawyer's business that
                        he might manage it for him.
                    To Valorie he said:
                    "My uncle has need of me. I find I must give up my plan of going back to the
                        West."
                    "I am glad of that!" she answered. Then, in maidenly fear that she might be
                        misunderstood, she added:
                    "I'm glad you are going to take a load off Uncle Butler's
                        mind."
                
                
                
                    XIX
                    
                        T
                        HERE were certain points of honor insisted upon by many gentlemen of
                        Virginia, with relentless purpose. Among these was the obligation of every man to report the
                        fact when he had offered marriage to a young woman and she had rejected him. So when Greg
                        Tazewell told his elderly half-brother, Dr. Hare, that he had offered his love to Valorie Page,
                        and that she had declined his suit, the news spread rapidly. Dr. Hare regarded himself as
                        specially commissioned by his half-brother to report it, and, having nothing else in particular
                        to do, he mounted his horse and rode from one plantation to another to tell of the event. When
                        Tazewell reproached him for his breach of confidence, his reply was ready.
                    "Every young woman," he said, "has a right to count the scalps hung to
                        her girdle.  When you told me of this thing in strict confidence I
                        justly assumed that you intended me to spread the news and spare you the embarrassment of doing
                        so. I have fulfilled my duty in right brotherly fashion. What more do you ask?"
                    Tazewell bowed to the dictum and after a moment Dr. Hare said:
                    "How long do you intend to wait before addressing her again?"
                    "I have no thought of addressing her again," said the young man, sadly.
                    "Not address her again? Why not? Surely you are not going to
                        flunk?"
                    "There is no question of flunking involved. My conversation with her was entirely
                        serious and she begged me not to distress her by recurring to the subject, assuring me that her
                        answer was final. It would be an affront to her for me to address her again."
                    "I can't see that. Our Virginia girls have a proper pride of their own. They
                        always reject a first offer on principle. To do otherwise would be to cheapen themselves. They
                        have a right to know that a man is in earnest before  accepting
                        him. If he takes the first 'no' for an answer they know that he was only
                        trifling, or that his proffer was prompted by some momentary impulse, and so if he does not
                        address them a second time they think themselves well rid of him. Why your sister Sally rejected
                        me seven times in one week, and now she is the mother of my six children and a very happy
                        woman."
                    "I do not doubt your knowledge of our Virginia girls," answered the other,
                        "but Valorie Page is not a Virginia girl except by inheritance."
                    "That's true. I hadn't thought of that. By the way have you inquired
                        who she is? One ought always to know all about a young woman before offering to make her his
                        wife and the mother of his children."
                    "She is Colonel Butler Shenstone's adopted daughter," answered Greg,
                        "and I fancy he would make things exceedingly uncomfortable for any young man who
                        should suggest that that is not sufficient."
                    "I really suppose he wouldparticularly if he happened to have a fit of the gout on at
                             the time of the inquiry. Still, I strongly advise you to
                        court the young woman again. It is the usual thing."
                    "I know it is, but she is a very unusual young woman."
                    "My dear Greg, every man thinks that about the woman he is in love with, but after all
                        they are very much alike, and you really ought to marry. With your plantation and your practice
                        and your outside reputation, you are everywhere regarded as a particularly good catch. Your
                        sister Sally says you've only to back into a corner full of bonnets and take one at
                        random, in full assurance that its owner will consent."
                    "On the whole," answered Greg with that scientific deliberation of utterance
                        that always specially irritated his elderly but still enthusiastic half-brother, "on
                        the whole I cherish a more exalted opinion of what you call 'our Virginia
                        girls,' and of womanhood generally than my good sister-in-law, your wife,
                        does."
                    With that he sprang into his saddle and galloped away. If there was any woman of his  acquaintance whom he was strongly tempted to except from his
                        general deference to womanhood, it was this same sister-in-law, Sally. He knew her well as a
                        merciless and utterly conscienceless gossip, in so far as she was permitted to indulge her
                        propensities in that way. For in Virginia at that time, women disposed to gossip had their
                        tongues held in leash by the customs of the country, exercising their restraining influence in
                        two ways and from two sources of authority. In the first place, all the stately dames of that
                        time, who by virtue of their lineage, their social position and their characters, were vested
                        with social authority all such frowned with the utmost severity upon every suggestion of gossip.
                        In the second place, in that time and country every woman knew that her nearest male relative,
                        husband, brother, father or what not, was held responsible for every word or act of hers, and
                        the knowledge was a powerfully deterrent influence in restraint of gossip.
                    Nevertheless this sister-in-law of his managed often to insinuate spiteful things that she dared
                        not say, and twice her husband had  been brought into sore trouble
                        by the wagging of her tongue.
                    Greg knew that her husband would tell her of what he had said, and that she would seek sly
                        revenge. Under the circumstances it would be very easy indeed for her to put him into a
                        painfully false position. She need say nothing. She need only ask questions. She might profess a
                        peculiar admiration and affection for Valorie, and then ask questions which nobody could answer
                        regarding her birth, parentage and previous history, and the worst of it was that as everybody
                        knew of her rejection of his suit, everybody would regard his sister-in-law's
                        malevolence as a thing inspired by himself.
                    Everybody knew of it, that is to say, except Phil Shenstone. He knew nothing either of the
                        courtship or of the rejection. The very last place to which news of these things was likely to
                        penetrate, was Colonel Shenstone's chamber, and for the present, Phil was shut up there
                        going over papers and making minute memoranda, during nearly all his waking hours. Early in the
                        mornings he rode with  Valorie, after seeing the plantation
                        animals fed, and in the evenings he sat before the fire in the parlor while she softly played
                        upon the harp, the piano or the violin, with the gentle purpose of resting him. But during all
                        the working hours of the day his attention was concentrated upon affairs, and as no company came
                        to Woodlands during Colonel Shenstone's convalescence, Phil Shenstone heard not one
                        word of his friend's proposal to Valorie or of her rejection of his suit. He still
                        believed those two in love, and his conviction was confirmed by their prolonged conferences. How
                        was he to know that these had for their subject the care of Colonel Shenstone?
                    Then suddenly an event occurred in San Francisco which completely changed conditions at
                        Woodlands, so complexly interlocked are human affairs in this modern time. The California
                        banking house of Adams & Co., failed.
                    That house had banking and other relations with financial institutions throughout the country,
                        and especially its members were proprietors also of the one great express company  then doing business throughout the land.
                    The failure of Adams & Co. quickly involved other failures in New York, Philadelphia and
                        all others of the financial centres which then loosely controlled the business of the continent.
                    Circumstances were ripe for such a panic as the country had never before known or dreamed of. The
                        development of the West had involved an extension of credit, restrained neither by any adequate
                        governmental supervision nor by any concerted programme of prudence. Worse still, there was no
                        trustworthy currency of any kind in the country except the utterly inadequate supply of gold and
                        silver coin, a large proportion of which consisted of badly worn Spanish and French silver
                        pieces. Every state had its own "wild cat" banking laws, under which banks
                        with a capital of ten or twenty thousand dollars might and did issue circulating notes to the
                        extent of millions each, secured, as a wit said at the time, by nothing more substantial than
                        the pledge of the cashiers' boots.
                    These banknotes, crowding the new Californian  and Australian gold
                        out of use, as bad money always does with good money, constituted the circulating medium of the
                        entire country, and when the panic came they almost instantly lost such value as they had ever
                        had. Manufacturing and commercial houses were suddenly obliged to stop business. Men and women
                        by scores and hundreds of thousands, were thrown out of employment. The little dealers with whom
                        such were accustomed to trade, were forced into insolvency. The great merchants, from whom these
                        small dealers were accustomed to buy, found themselves without a market for their goods, and in
                        their turn made assignments.
                    Chaos was come again.
                    Hurried telegrams, in such numbers as had never been known in that countryside before, came
                        clamorously to Phil Shenstone from his partners in the West. Most of these messages were so
                        badly "bulled" in transmission for the art of the telegrapher was in its
                        infancy then that he could make little out of them. But this much they made clear to his mind,
                        that things with his steamboat partnership  were in an exceedingly
                        bad way, and that unless he should hurry west to take charge of affairs there was no knowing
                        what might happen but that whatever it might be, it must be disastrous.
                    To Phil Shenstone the worst of the situation was that everything Valorie's father had
                        left in his charge for her was invested in these steamboat enterprises of his.
                    Hurriedly throwing a few suits of clothing into a trunk, he left by the next train to make the
                        tedious journey to the West. How tedious a journey it was in those days, when every little
                        railroad was operated independently of every other, it is difficult for one born in a later
                        generation to conceive. He must take a train to Richmond. There, after a wait of several hours,
                        he must take a pottering train to Fredericksburg. There he must change to a train that ran to
                        Acquia creek on the Potomac, seven miles away. There he must take steamboat for Washington. In
                        the capital city a preposterously long omnibus, with only two or three passengers in it, would
                        convey him across town to the station of the Baltimore  and Ohio
                        branch line, leading to the Relay House. At that point he must wait five hours for a train out
                        of Baltimore for the West. This train would take him very slowly and with numberless stops, to
                        Wheeling, or rather to a point four miles further down the Ohio River. A ferryboat took him
                        across the stream, to Belleair, and after a wait of an hour or two, he could board a train for
                        Newark, Ohio. There he had to change cars again for Columbus, thirty miles or so away. If he had
                        been fortunate enough to arrive at Columbus on time he might have gone on to Cincinnati without
                        delay. But, being two hours behind time a very moderate lateness in those days he must wait
                        until mid-night for the next train over the Little Miami railroad, whose boast it was that it
                        ran two trains each way every twenty-four hours instead of the one that was usual on most other
                        railroads. The Little Miami was a conspicuous model of enterprise.
                    At Cincinnati Phil Shenstone found his partners awaiting him, and, finding that one of their
                        steamboats was leaving that day for St.  Louis, the party boarded
                        her for uninterrupted consultation during the trip.
                    "Precisely what is the situation?" Phil Shenstone asked, when the group
                        assembled in the Texas cabin where there was privacy.
                    "Well," answered Budd Doble, "the last three trips of our boats from
                        Cincinnati to St. Louis have netted a loss."
                    "How so?"
                    "Bad money," was the response.
                    "But if the money had been good?" asked Phil.
                    "There would have been a profit of several thousand dollars on each trip."
                    Doble answered thus sententiously because he understood Phil Shenstone's temper and his
                        methods in business.
                    "Very well. What have you done?"
                    "We've laid up seven of our boats."
                    "How much money are they making? I never knew a steamboat to make any money while tied
                        up to the bank, but perhaps this is an exceptional case."
                    "Neither did I," said John Cannon, and Tom Leathers echoed the sentiment.
                    
                    "But," began Budd Doble,
                    "But what?" asked Shenstone.
                    "There's no money in carrying freight and passengers for worthless
                        shinplasters."
                    "Of course not. But thanks to California and Australia, there's enough gold in
                        the country to go round. Silver is out of it. All the silver dollars have been melted down
                        because each of them was worth more than a dollar as mere metal. We'll carry freight
                        and passengers for gold and for nothing else except the notes of the Northern Bank of Kentucky
                        and a few other sound concerns. We'll post notices to that effect and stick to it. Now
                        I had six hours in Cincinnati before I met you fellows, and I made use of them. I find the panic
                        has rather stimulated emigration than checked it. I learn too that a new tide of emigration has
                        set in from the South by way of Louisville. What are our competitors of the Louisville &
                        St. Louis line doing to meet the opportunity?"
                    "They have laid up all their boats but two just enough to fufill the minimum
                        requirements of their mail contract."
                    
                    "Good! We'll buy their boats and set them at work. That mail contract alone
                        will pay operating expenses. This is a great opportunity. We'll have every wheel
                        turning out gold within twelve hours after this boat reaches Louisville, and within twenty-four
                        hours we'll buy every boat the other fellows own."
                    Thus with the energy that had accumulated during his period of rest, Phil Shenstone set his
                        business going with results so profitable as to justify even his optimistic confidence. He made
                        the trip to St. Louis, and thence to New Orleans. There he selected five or six of their smaller
                        steamboats and sent them up the Yazoo and the bayous, loaded with plantation supplies for sale
                        and prepared to bring out the cotton that was piled high upon the banks awaiting a market.
                    It was late in January when he began to feel that he had the business in proper shape again. He
                        had no thought of returning to Virginia. His uncle needed him of course, but there were personal
                        considerations to be reckoned with. He was sure that Greg Tazewell had won the  love of Valorie Page, and so far as he could he believed that he
                        wished to rejoice in the fact. But it was far easier to persuade himself that he did rejoice in
                        it, when every day was a busy one with him than it would be if he should return to Woodlands to
                        be a daily witness to the disappointment of the only hope he had ever cherished with all his
                        heart.
                    He resolved to remain in the West, to extend his enterprises in every possible direction, to
                        build and buy additional steamboats and keep them all busy making money that he did not want; to
                        "smoke the trees of every navigable stream in the South," he said, in search
                        of cotton bales that were hungry for a market; to push his prows into every Indian-haunted
                        waterway that flowed from the Rocky Mountains into the Missouri river, and up every tributary of
                        the great Mississippi river system that offered anything deeper than a dew for purposes of
                        navigation.
                    He had no money need to stimulate these desires. There was impulse enough in his longing for
                        ceaseless occupation and for the  forgetfulness that occupation
                        brings to a mind perturbed.
                    But in the midst of all this there came to him a telegram from Greg Tazewell saying:
                    "The danger to Valorie has come. Your presence is imperative."
                    He took the next train for the East.
                
                
                
                    XX
                    
                        T
                        HE "hard times" that followed the great panic of 1857, were
                        such as had never been known before, and such as have never been known since, thank God! The
                        poor were absolutely helpless. It was not only that all industries were stopped, so that wages
                        were nowhere to be earned; that was indeed the smallest part of the distress. More than
                        two-thirds of all the circulating money of the country had been extinguished. The little savings
                        of the poor were so much valueless paper. But worse still, in the absence of an adequate
                        circulating medium, the price of everything went up enormously the price of everything, that is
                        to say, except labor. That sank to nothingness.
                    The only laboring population in the land that did not severely suffer in that time was the slave
                        population of the South. To them hard  times meant nothing. Come
                        what might, they were fed and clothed and housed, doctored when they were ill and cared for in
                        infancy and old age as no other laboring population ever was since the foundations of the world
                        were laid. Yet this fact has never been accounted unto the slave owners of the South for
                        righteousness, and it is a shame to the rest of the world that it has not been recognized at its
                        worth.
                    Nobody is disposed nowadays to apologize for African slavery in the South, or to regret its
                        extermination. Nobody rejoices in its abolition more sincerely than do the men and women of the
                        South. But the fact remains, to the credit of those men and women of the South, that there never
                        was on earth a laboring population so well paid or so happy as the negroes were. From infancy to
                        old age they were secure of plenty to eat, plenty to wear, and a good roof over their heads,
                        with medical attendance and the gentlest of nursing in the event of illness. Whatever of
                        distress and terror hard times might bring upon laborers elsewhere, the negro on a Virginia
                        plantation  had no occasion to share. There was meat in the
                        smokehouse and corn in the crib, and if these fell short, the master's credit would
                        supply the need.
                    But Richmond had a population of much poorer sort white men, white women and white children, who
                        were dependent upon daily wages for daily sustenance, as under freedom scores of thousands of
                        negroes are to-day, whose fathers and grandfathers under the old patriarchal system never in
                        their lives knew what it was to wonder where the next meal was to come from.
                    In Richmond, in the hard winter of 18578, the suffering among the poor was great and many things
                        were done by generous men and women to alleviate it.
                    Prominently active among these ministers of mercy, was a gracious gentlewoman, Mrs. Albemarle.
                        Her wealth was by no means great, but her social position was supreme. With compassionate
                        thought she decided that she would make of her social dominance a ministry to the poor. It was
                        her custom to give all sorts of entertainments and functions  in
                        the parlors of her spacious home. For this year, she announced to all her friends, she would
                        give no entertainment of any kind that was not tributary to the needs of those who suffered by
                        reason of the hard times. She would entertain even more lavishly than before, but those who
                        enjoyed her hospitality must pay for it in tribute to those in need. If she gave a little dance
                        every man invited to it must pay a fair price for himself and an equal price for each lady he
                        might ask to have invited with him. Success in this way encouraged the gracious gentlewoman to a
                        still larger activity. She decided as her three large parlors, opening into each other, afforded
                        an ample auditorium to give some amateur theatricals in the cause of charity. She was a wise
                        dame, informed to her finger tips as to human vanity, and in so good a cause she was willing to
                        play upon it. She knew scores of young people who wanted to appear upon the stage as amateur
                        actors. Very well. A small contribution to the charitable fund would secure a part for any young
                        man or young woman who might demonstrate ability to render  the
                        part well but to no others. Mrs. Albemarle was determined that her guests should have their
                        money's worth and that her "dramatics" should be altogether capable
                        in their rendering. Guests were admitted only upon invitation and invitations were open only to
                        those who were socially eligible. But each guest was expected to contribute substantially to the
                        compassionate purpose with which the entertainment was given.
                    As the glory of being Mrs. Albemarle's guest on this conspicuous occasion was coveted as
                        a thing of vital moment to every one who aspired to social recognition, the filling of her three
                        great parlors was so certain in advance that its perplexing details had need to trouble no one
                        except the young girls whom she had pressed into service for the occasion.
                    Woodlands lay within a dozen or fifteen miles of Richmond, and Mrs. Albemarle held it to be well
                        within her jurisdiction. She had entertained Valorie as a guest on more than one previous
                        occasion, and she knew of the girl's superb accomplishments as a musician. With shrewd
                        foresight she enlisted Valorie as  one of the chief of her
                        coadjutors in the charitable enterprise. Valorie not only promised to play on the occasion, in a
                        letter, enclosing Colonel Shenstone's check for a hundred dollars in aid of the fund,
                        without mentioning it, but she offered also to help in drilling the others, a function for which
                        she was peculiarly equipped because of the unusual sort of training she had received at the
                        convent of which more anon.
                    For two weeks before the performance, Valorie lived at Mrs. Albemarle's, Colonel
                        Shenstone's health being now restored. There was present a stage manager whom Mrs.
                        Albemarle had hired from Kunkel & Moxley's Richmond Theatre, on the corner of
                        Seventh and Broad streets, and also the premier danseuse of the theatre, Miss
                        Jennie Hight, whose father was at once scenic artist and low comedian in that establishment. In
                        those days every "provincial" theatre maintained a very capable stock company,
                        a company so complete and so able that it could by itself present plays of every kind from
                        tragedy to farce. It was the custom to employ as "stars" all the great actors
                             in the land each for a week or two weeks, as the case might
                        be. The stock company was expected to "support" the star in any and every play
                        included in his or her repertoire. The theatre maintained a scenic artist of its own, who also
                        had a playing part in the company. He was expected to produce all needed scenery for each
                        star's repertoire and to appear as an actor in each piece. Every theatre also
                        maintained a stage carpenter and a costumer of its own and these also were actors who must fill
                        parts when necessary.
                    It was the custom in those days to begin early and give two or three plays of an evening usually
                        a tragedy or a romantic drama, followed by a three or four-act comedy, with a roaring farce to
                        complete the entertainment. The highest price of admission, authorizing one to take the best
                        seat he could find unoccupied, was half a dollar, and it was the conscientious endeavor of the
                        management to give the audience its money's worth. Therefore in addition to the three
                        plays, the chief ones acted by such "stars" as Edwin Booth, Joseph Jefferson,
                        J. S. Clark, Maggie Mitchell, Fanny  Morant, Laura Keene, and
                        their like, there was always a dance and often a song between the several plays, and sometimes
                        also between the acts of the principal plays. By way of providing for this, every theatre that
                        accounted itself of the first class, maintained a premiere danseuse of real
                        gifts and a well trained ballet, the members of which rendered themselves additionally useful by
                        coming on the stage as peasants or populace or what not, when the exigencies of a play required
                        such presence.
                    Old Joe Hight was scenic artist and low comedian at Kunkel & Moxley's. His
                        daughter Jennie was premiere danseuse.
                    
                    Mrs. Albemarle, who did nothing by halves, had engaged Jennie Hight, to dance a pas
                            seul at her entertainment, so timing it that the girl might drive from the theatre
                        after her first performance there and drive back again in time for the next.
                    There were morning rehearsals, of course. Otherwise the young student from Richmond College, who
                        had undertaken the leading rle in an act from "Richard Third," and with great
                        impartiality, the leading rle in an act  from "School for
                        Scandal," besides a part in "Good for Nothing Nan," would never have
                        been able to teach the other volunteers of the company how to speak their lines.
                    At these rehearsals, Valorie, who knew far more about music than the orchestra leader did,
                        devoted herself mainly to the work of getting the music into fit condition. She gave a new
                        orchestration to many of the numbers, and diligently drilled the performers in the proper
                        rendering of their scores.
                    Her own personal part in the performance was to be the rendering of some obligatos on the harp,
                        violin and piano, but in her loyalty to Mrs. Albemarle and her still greater loyalty to art she
                        did what she could to bring every part of the performance to perfection. When at rehearsal,
                        Jennie Hight went through with her pas seul, Valorie detected flaws in it. In
                        the course of the peculiar training given to her in the convent with an ulterior purpose, she
                        had been drilled in this particular pas seul until she was ankle perfect and
                        toe perfect in every step of it. Jennie Hight's rendering was imperfect at many  points, and, with an eye single to the success of Mrs.
                        Albemarle's entertainment, Valorie went to Jennie's rather unlovely quarters
                        day after day to instruct her.
                    On the evening of the entertainment Jennie Hight arrived on time and proceeded hastily to don her
                        dancing costume, which by Mrs. Albemarle's direction, had been so far lengthened as to
                        its skirts as to reach nearly to her ankles.
                    While she was dressing, however, there came a hurried messenger from the theatre, bearing the
                        news that old Joe Hight had fallen from the flies, where he had been arranging scenic effects,
                        and had sustained injuries that were believed to be fatal.
                    Jennie had no other relative in all the world than this old father of hers, and her devotion to
                        him was absolute. She instantly began stripping off her dancing costume, while the stage manager
                        tore his hair and bewailed the necessity he was under of going before the curtain, calling off
                        the dance and dampening the enthusiasm of the audience by announcing the tragic mishap.
                    
                    "Don't do it!" said Valorie. "Don't say anything at
                        all to the audience. With a little pinning I can wear Miss Hight's costume, and I will
                        dance the pas seul."
                    Without waiting for a word of reply, she caressed the danseuse saying: "I'm so
                        sorry, Jennie! I'll call early in the morning," and proceeded hurriedly to don
                        the dancing clothes.
                    There was a little delay, over which the audience grew somewhat impatient. But, after a brief
                        while the curtain went up and without a word of explanation Valorie Page floated out upon the
                        stage and rendered the pas seul in a fashion far more graceful than any that
                        Jenny Hight could have given to it. Especially in the toe walking part of it, the girl excelled
                        anything the audience had ever seen. Her dancing master at the convent had discovered what he
                        called "genius in her ankles," and had made the most of it by persistent
                        drilling.
                    The dancing excited the wildest enthusiasm. But that was by no means all of it. It was  Jennie Hight that the company had expected to see and it was not
                        Jennie Hight who appeared. Those of the company who were accustomed to attend the theatre knew
                        Jennie Hight's gifts and better still they knew her limitations. She was a good danseuse, but by no means a great one. The danseuse on the
                        stage was a great one in the fullest sense of the term, and her greatness was emphasized by the
                        fact that her dancing was done without the adventitious aid of excessively abbreviated skirts.
                        To the theatre goers it was a revelation that a woman modestly attired with skirts hanging to
                        the level of her shoe tops, could put even more of the poetry of motion into a pas
                            seul than could the professional danseuse, with knees exposed and an
                        array of flummery above the knees.
                    There were many in the audience who had conscientious scruples about attending the theatre, and
                        these had rejoiced in an opportunity to see a professional danseuse without
                        offending pastors and masters by entering the portals of a playhouse. These were disappointed
                             when they discovered that the dancer was not the
                        "professional" whom they had come to see but an amateur.
                    It had been Valorie's confident expectation that when she appeared in Jennie
                        Hight's costume to do Jennie Hight's dance, she would be taken for Jennie
                        Hight. But Jennie had straight and intensely black hair, with a white skin and small glittering
                        eyes; while Valorie had brown hair with much of curl in it, and large, deep blue eyes, the
                        blueness of which was in no wise disguised by the length of her copper-colored eyelashes. So
                        instantly the habitual theatre-goers discovered the substitution, and knowledge of it quickly
                        spread among the rest.
                    At the end of the dance there was clamorous applause, but there were also a few distinct hisses
                        of disapprobation. These were intended to express disapproval an entirely unreasoning and
                        unreasonable disapproval, but a disapproval none the less pronounced on that account of the
                        appearance of a gentlewoman in such a part under any conceivable circumstances. Not that the
                        persons who  hissed could have offered any rational argument in
                        condemnation of what had been done for they could not but merely that their absurd and illogical
                        sense of social propriety was offended. Perhaps it would be more accurate to say that their
                        desire to pose as the exclusive and conspicuous guardians of propriety prompted them to
                        condemnation without any thinking at all.
                    But the hisses, few as they were acted like a match to gunpowder. Those who admired and applauded
                        were ten to one in numbers and fifty to one superior in social influence. They accepted the
                        hissing as a challenge to themselves and they met it as such. They redoubled their acclaim and
                        refused to abate their demonstration of approval. Three times the stage manager tried to raise
                        the curtain on the next number of the programme and three times he was compelled by the clamor
                        to lower it again. He took Valorie's hand and led her out before the curtain to make
                        her bow of acknowledgment and on every occasion of the kind the audience refused to be
                        satisfied. The excited guests were determined to make  their
                        demonstration of approval complete and overwhelming. Without fear even of Mrs. Albemarle
                        herself, they cried encore, encore, encore, until the stage manager saw no
                        escape. Hastily stripping the stage of its furnishings for another number, and dumping a throne
                        and two showcases of crown jewels into the wings, he ordered the orchestra to play the dance
                        music again, saying earnestly to Valorie:
                    "You must give it again. You must. You must. Otherwise they'll mob
                        us."
                    The unkindly hisses had brought tears to Valorie's eyes, but she angrily brushed them
                        away and still more angrily made up her mind to do the dance with more than ever of that abandon
                        which makes the fortune of such a performance. When, near the end of it, she came to the part
                        where she must glide forward to the footlights upon the extreme points of her steel-tipped toes,
                        there were two or three hisses heard, and a new impulse seized upon the girl. Putting all of
                        resolution that she possessed into those eloquent ankles of hers and, with severe muscular
                        effort, standing still upon the  extreme points of her dancing
                        shoes, she broke forth in an address to the audience.
                    "Miss Hight's father is dying," she said. "She had to go to
                        him, and could not give the dance. I have given it in her stead in order that the audience might
                        not lose it. If I have done wrong I am sorry, but " at that moment the applause broke
                        out more violently than ever, because Mrs. Albemarle had hurriedly made her way to the back and
                        had come to the footlights to stand by Valorie's side and to lend to her the
                        countenance and support of the grandest dame in Richmond society. Her presence was not only a
                        rebuke to those who had hissed; it was a positively explosive stimulus to those who were
                        applauding, and the walls shook in echo to their vociferation.
                    With muscles strained to the point of breaking, Valorie, still standing upon her tiptoes, bowed
                        and, with a supreme effort, tiptoed to the wings and disappeared. Colonel Shenstone, fearing
                        consequences, had hurriedly sent Greg Tazewell to the exit and it was into his arms that she
                        fell exhausted and fainting when the ordeal was over.
                    
                    When quiet was restored the queenly figure of Mrs. Albemarle, with head erect and with restrained
                        but manifest indignation flashing from her eyes, walked to the footlights and stood there in
                        awe-inspiring silence for a space. At last she said:
                    "Certain persons in the audience, invited guests of mine, have seen fit to hiss a
                        performance most generously given in an emergency by a young lady whom I hold in tender
                        affection and the very highest esteem. I shall take it as a favor if every one who did so will
                        have the courage to notify me of the fact. It is my purpose to revise my visiting list, and I
                        wish to strike from it the names of all those who have been guilty of this monstrous affront to
                        my hospitality."
                    The utterance fell like a bombshell. It was instantly followed by an outbreak of applause. Three
                        or four of the most conspicuous hissers, feeling certain that Mrs. Albemarle already knew of
                        their guilt, had the grace to retire without seeking to take leave of their hostess. The rest
                        remained, trying to look innocent; for as everybody in Richmond knew, to be in  Mrs. Albemarle's bad books, was to be socially
                        non-existent in the capital city of the commonwealth. But the glances of recognition and rebuke
                        which others shot at them were quite sufficient for the affronted hostess's purpose.
                        Before she quitted her place in front of the footlights she had a complete catalogue in her mind
                        of those whom she intended on the morrow to banish from society in punishment of their sin.
                
                
                
                    XXI
                    
                        V
                        ALORIE was not a young woman of the habitually fainting sort, but her nerves
                        were unstrung, her muscular power exhausted, and her strength gone for the moment. Almost
                        instantly she revived the more quickly perhaps because she had fallen into Greg
                        Tazewell's arms, and for reasons of her own she did not wish to rest there. The
                        duration of a fainting period is often determined by considerations of that kind.
                    When she freed herself and stood erect she said:
                    "I have nothing else to do on the stage, I think. Mrs. Albemarle, may I "
                    "Yes, dear, you may go to bed at once. Here Mary," to a negro maid in
                        attendance, "take your Miss Valorie to her room."
                    At that moment some foolishly considerate person brought the girl a bottle of champagne  and begged her to swallow a glass of it. She refused, and Greg
                        Tazewell emphasized her refusal.
                    "She doesn't want that," he said, in the peremptory tone that the
                        physician has sometimes to adopt. "Take it away. Mrs. Albemarle, will you kindly direct
                        that a hot bath as hot as she can stand shall be prepared for Miss Page, and that after your
                        maids shall have got her into night robes she shall walk slowly twenty-one times around her
                        room, keeping the count for herself? By that time her bath will be ready, and after it she must
                        go instantly to bed."
                    "Wait a moment, Doctor," said Valorie. "I want you to go to Jennie
                        Hight as quickly as you can. Find out how badly her father is hurt; do everything you can for
                        him and then come back here, please, or send me word. I shall not sleep till I hear your report
                        of him."
                    Tazewell set out at once upon this mission. As he was leaving, Mrs. Albemarle asked:
                    "Is it necessary to count those rounds of her room exactly? I don't quite
                        understand."
                    
                    "My dear Mrs. Albemarle," he replied, "neither the bath nor the
                        counting of the rounds is of any consequence whatever in itself. My purpose is simply to divert
                        her mind to other than exciting thoughts, so that she may sleep. If you think of any other
                        device in aid of such diversion of her mind, pray order it and you have my full authority to say
                        I directed you to do so. Challenge her ability to count a thousand backward. Insist that she
                        can't repeat the Lord's prayer. Raise a doubt as to her ability to conjugate a
                        French verb. Do anything and everything you can think of to divert her mind from the events of
                        the evening. Within half an hour I shall come back telling her that Joe Hight's
                        injuries are very slight and that Jennie is asleep."
                    "But suppose you don't find that to be the case?"
                    "Then I shall lie like a gentleman, for the sake of her sleep, and it will be time
                        enough to take it all back after she wakes."
                    Mrs. Albemarle looked curiously at him. After a moment she said:
                    
                    "It will be a very long time before I strike the name of Greg Tazewell off my visiting
                        list."
                    "I sincerely hope so," he replied, as he buttoned his overcoat and passed out
                        of the door.
                    Half an hour later he returned and to Mrs. Albemarle he said:
                    "Fortunately, there is no occasion to lie, either like a gentleman or like a pickpocket.
                        Joe Hight's arm is broken in one of its bones, but it has been very skillfully set by a
                        young doctor. He has sustained no other injuries of the smallest consequence. So you can bid
                        your patient sleep at ease. Has she had her bath?"
                    "She is just coming out of it."
                    "Very well. Get her to bed quickly. Don't let anybody give her champagne or any
                        other fool thing of that exciting kind. Keep her mind off the events of the evening, and let her
                        sleep as long as she can. With your permission I will wait in the 'banquet hall
                        deserted' until you can report that she sleeps."
                    "No, you must go into Jack's I mean  Judge
                        Albemarle'ssnuggery instead. There's an open wood fire there and pipes and
                        tobacco. I'll come to you when she sleeps."
                    The doctor's devices for the diversion of the girl's mind proved successful.
                        Her strength had been taxed to the verge of exhaustion, and when she heard the good news as to
                        Joe Hight's condition, the soothing influence of the hot bath quickly sent her to
                        sleep.
                    Mrs. Albemarle reported the fact to Greg Tazewell, and he promptly took his leave.
                    When he reached his room at the Exchange Hotel and Ballard House, a little before two
                        o'clock in the morning, he found Colonel Shenstone awaiting him there, in as much of
                        anxiety as the brave old soldier and lawyer of forty years' practice could be expected
                        to feel in any imaginable circumstances. As an old soldier he had an abiding faith in the
                        "fighting chance," whatever odds there might be against him. As an old lawyer
                        he justly regarded himself as a man equipped to meet every legal proceeding with an objection
                        that must at least secure delay.
                    
                    Nevertheless he was uneasy, and to Tazewell he opened his mind.
                    "I received a note this evening," he said, "from a firm of lawyers
                        whom I know, but whom I do not recognize as acquaintances. They are rascals altogether, but very
                        shrewd rascals, capable of giving honest people a lot of trouble."
                    "What do they want?" asked Tazewell, whose diagnostic impulse was always
                        dominant. When he should know what was the matter he would be prepared to consider the question
                        of treatment.
                    "They want Valorie," answered the old gentleman, "and they want her
                        for no good purpose."
                    "What do you mean? Tell me all about it. Is it a case for shotguns?"
                    "At present, no. It may become that later. I do not know."
                    "If it does, of course "
                    "Oh, of course. I know your shotgun will be ready and in quick hands. But at present it
                        is a case of law and I suspect of blackmail."
                    
                    "Tell me, please."
                    "I will. These people formally notify me that their client, a Mrs. Eulalie Lee, claims
                        to be the mother of Valorie, and as such her natural guardian, until she shall reach the age of
                        twenty-one years. They allege that Phil Shenstone kidnapped the girl from the convent in which
                        her mother had placed her; and I really shouldn't wonder if he did; that she is now
                        held in durance by me and that her mother demands her immediate surrender into her own
                        keeping."
                    "Is the mother in Richmond or is she in New Orleans awaiting results?"
                    "I do not know. I suppose she is here. It makes no difference."
                    "Pardon me, I think it does. From certain things that Phil has let fall in conversation
                        I imagine that the woman is a plain blackmailer, that her real purpose in this case is to extort
                        money. Of course you could not in any way yield to a demand of that sort "
                    "Of course not," interrupted the colonel.
                    "But I, who am in no way connected with the matter, might perhaps be able, with a check
                             of my own to persuade the lady to go back to New
                        Orleans."
                    "Not a dollar! Not a cent! I'll fight the case to the Supreme Court of the
                        United States if necessary, at my own expense, but the woman shall not have a dollar from you or
                        anybody else. Listen, Greg! The only thing I fear is some summary proceeding like habeas corpus. If we can fight that off, we can keep the case in court for three years
                        or more, and by that time Valorie will be either of age or married, and in either case her
                        mother's claim will be extinguished. The great trouble is that Phil isn't
                        here, and he has never told me all the facts. I need them as a ground upon which to
                        proceed."
                    "I'll telegraph him to come. You may be sure he'll be here within
                        three days. Can we stave off action that long with legal proceedings or shotguns?"
                    "I think so. Unfortunately these rascals know that Valorie is at Mrs.
                        Albemarle's, and may serve papers on her there."
                    "I'll take care of that," answered Tazewell. "Mrs.
                        Albemarle's house, you know,  is isolated in large
                        grounds of its own. When her last guest leaves each night her iron outer gates are locked, and
                        she turns Castor and Pollux loose. They are her silently savage bull dogs. They can be
                        implicitly trusted to see that nobody though backed by the entire constabulary of the town shall
                        pass within that lofty iron fence during their tour of duty. As soon as they are locked up in
                        the morning I will call upon Mrs. Albemarle and explain the situation. After that you may trust
                        that sagacious and determined gentlewoman to protect Miss Page. The important thing now is that
                        you shall go to bed. As your attending physician, I order that, peremptorily. Leave the rest to
                        me."
                    As soon as the colonel retired, Tazewell drew on his overcoat, walked through the deserted
                        highways to the office of the "Electro-Magnetic Telegraph," in Pearl Street,
                        and roused the operator. There were no "branch stations" in those days, no
                        district messengers, no arrangements of any kind by which one could send a telegram without
                        personally visiting the office of the "Electro-Magnetic 
                        Telegraph Company." Telegraphing was rather slow work, too, at that time. Every
                        despatch had to be received on paper and laboriously repeated at every office through which it
                        passed. The service was costly, and when Greg Tazewell ordered his telegram sent to the offices
                        of Phil Shenstone's steamboat company in Cincinnati, Louisville, St. Louis and New
                        Orleans not knowing in which of those cities his friend might happen to be at that time, the
                        operator said:
                    "It'll spoil a ten-dollar gold piece to do all that, Doctor."
                    "Very well. Here is a twenty-dollar gold piece. If you will see to it that these
                        messages go through to-night, and send me word at the Exchange Hotel and Ballard House that any
                        one of them has been delivered, the change is yours. Otherwise I shall call for it in the
                        morning. Do you like oysters? I'll send in a dozen or so and a pot of coffee from
                        Zetelle's just to keep you awake till you get the messages off. But bear in mind, I
                        expect to receive your report in the early morning that one or other of the messages has  been delivered into Mr. Shenstone's hands."
                    As a matter of fact, Dr. Tazewell was awakened before five o'clock by the telegraph
                        operator bearing a despatch from Phil Shenstone in Cincinnati, which assured him that his friend
                        was leaving on the first train and would be in Richmond within thirty-six hours.
                    Tazewell arose at once, dressed himself and without breakfast, went to Mrs. Albemarle's,
                        where without hesitation he sent a message to her that robbed her of at least two
                        hours' sleep.
                    When she appeared he briefly explained the situation, adding:
                    "I know nothing of legal processes, but I understand that our greatest danger lies in
                        the possibility that some law officer or bailiff shall gain access to Miss Page and serve some
                        sort of process upon her. Now I want to give you a physician's certificate "
                    "It will not be necessary," answered the grand dame. "I know how to
                        protect my house. I will see to it that no bailiff shall reach her even though he come as
                        Napoleon said of Madame de Stal, 'disguised as a woman."
                    
                    "What will you do?"
                    "Send for my knights-errant, the Richmond College boys. They'll cut lectures
                        and quizzes and everything else to serve me. I'll fill the place full of them.
                        They'll break the neck of anybody who tries to force his way in. Of course I shall
                        introduce all of them to Valorie as the damsel in distress whom they are to guard, and of
                        course, they'll all fall madly in love with her. College boys always do that you know,
                        and it is good for them. Leave all that to me, and I promise you and Colonel Shenstone that
                        nobody shall get at Valorie while you await Phil's return. But you and he must let me
                        know when the time is up, for I'm going to complete last night's work by
                        giving a special reception to my friends 'to meet Miss Valorie Page, of
                        Woodlands.' You're a doctor. You know how necessary it is, when administering
                        a liniment, to 'rub it in.' I'm simply going to 'rub it
                        in.'"
                    "Mrs. Albemarle, you are simply great!"
                    "Why do you persist in calling me Mrs. Albemarle? Why don't you call me
                        'Cousin Mattie?' You know your ever so many times  great-grandfather Adam, married my ever so many times great-grandmother, Eve, and so we are
                        cousins. If you persist in ignoring the kinship, I shall quarrel with you, and I don't
                        want to do that, because I like you, Greg Tazewell. Now you must run away. I haven't
                        any breakfast for you because the cook got that champagne that you wouldn't let Valorie
                        drink last night. It's your own fault, but I've no doubt you're
                        responsible for many much greater sins, so I'll forgive you if you'll go away
                        at once and leave me free to send my summons to the college boys. But you must come back to
                        dinner at four o'clock. Goodbye. No excuses accepted. My word must be law. Go
                        away."
                    Tazewell was glad enough to obey. He wanted a few additional hours of sleep, and he knew that
                        Colonel Shenstone would be at his rooms pretty early in the morning to learn the result of his
                        proceedings. Besides he hadn't had his bath as yet and was really not ready for his
                        breakfast. And in addition to all this he was eager to tell Colonel Shenstone  of Mrs. Albemarle's amusing idea of "rubbing it
                        in," a thing he highly approved, both as a man of medicine and as a mere man.
                    It was Mrs. Albemarle's habit to do things in a way that secured the approval of those
                        for whose approval she cared. She was a "thoroughbred" in the fullest
                        significance of the term.
                
                
                
                    XXII
                    
                        W
                        HEN Colonel Shenstone appeared in Greg Tazewell's room early in the
                        morning, the doctor was taking his breakfast there. It was not a customary thing in those days
                        for hotel guests to take their meals in their rooms, and hotel proprietors did their best to
                        prevent the introduction of the custom into American hotel life a tendency which a universal
                        reading of Dickens's novels strongly fostered. By way of checking it the hotel people
                        printed on their bills of fare the French word menu had not come into use then
                        and on the posted "rules of the house," a legend in conspicuous type, with two
                        amputated human hands, pointing to its two ends, saying: 
                            "All meals served in rooms will be charged extra."
                        
                    
                    But Greg Tazewell was a young man who  had lived abroad, and had
                        there learned something of the importance of comfort and leisure and quietude at meals,
                        especially to a man who has been under wakefully emotional strain all night. More important
                        still, he was a man who held money to be a mere tool, a means to an end, and as his own command
                        of money though he was not a very rich man was comfortably adequate, he had no mind to be
                        diverted from his comfort and quietude and leisure by the printed warnings or threats of his
                        landlord.
                    So he had daringly ordered his breakfast served in the outer one of his two rooms, in front of a
                        cannel coal fire which, he was also under warning, would be "charged extra."
                    "I hope you have not had your breakfast, Colonel?" said the young man.
                    "No. Not yet. I'm going down to it after I've had my talk with
                        you."
                    "You're not going to do anything of the sort. You're going to have it
                        with me, comfortably, in front of the fire," answered the younger man, rising from his
                        chair, climbing over the divan and pulling the bell cord.
                    
                    "Why bother to order more?" asked the old gentleman, scanning the table.
                        "You have a goodly supply of beefsteak let me share it."
                    "Peremptorily, no. You're limping again this morning. I forbid red meat.
                        I'll order you a roe herring, or a piece of broiled shad the fish have just swum into
                        the river or some broiled bacon and dry toast, but you simply must not eat beefsteak, if you are
                        to be in condition to fight out this controversy."
                    "Why not let me fall ill? On your professional certificate we could stave those rascals
                        off for a week or two long enough at least to let Phil get here."
                    "Phil will be here within thirty-six hours. There is his telegram. As for
                        'staving off,' you may trust Mrs. Albemarle for that. She has undertaken the
                        job, and you know that that gracious and altogether glorious lady bountiful is not accustomed to
                        fail or falter in anything she undertakes. But just now you simply must not eat even an ounce of
                        red meat."
                    "All right. I'll take toast and tea then, 
                        that's the regular diet I believe, only I'll beg you to make it coffee instead
                        of tea. Nobody but a hardened and confirmed Englishman could stand tea for breakfast. But now
                        about Mrs. Albemarle. I've just sent her a note asking her to consider her present
                        possession of Val as one adverse to me. That's a legal phrase. What it means is that
                        she refuses to give Val up to me or in any way to recognize any right on my part to control her
                        person or her movements, until such time as I shall have established my right by legal process.
                        Do you understand?"
                    "I think I do. It means that Mrs. Albemarle shall hold possession of her as long as you
                        think necessary so that you may reply 'non possumus'
                        that's plural, but let it go to any writ or paper that may be served upon you demanding
                        her delivery."
                    "Precisely! Excellent! You'd have made a lawyer, Greg, if you hadn't
                        been lured into another profession. Now just as soon as you and I part after breakfast,
                        I'm going back to Woodlands. I have sent a note to those precious rascals, telling them
                        that my office  as well as my residence is there, and that if they
                        have any business with me, they must call upon me there. That will mean one day's
                        delay, I suppose, or it would if they were gentlemen who used horses for traveling. As they are
                        not, I suppose they'll come by rail, and if they take the half past ten train, this
                        morning, confound it, they'll be there nearly as soon as I myself shall."
                    It proved to be so. Colonel Shenstone had just limped into the house and settled himself in an
                        easy chair before the fire, when Mr. Stone, the senior partner of the opposing law firm,
                        presented himself in the porch.
                    There were well-recognized distinctions and discriminations in Virginia hospitality in that
                        stately and well-ordered old time. When the master of a mansion recognized a visitor as a
                        gentleman, all the penetralia were freely thrown open to him. He was asked into parlor and
                        dining room, and upon occasion, even into the sacred precincts of "the
                        chamber." When one came on business whom the master of the mansion did not recognize as
                        his social equal, the hospitality was more rigorously restricted.
                    
                    If it were summer the stranger was received in the porch. If it were winter he was invited into
                        the great hall, as was done in this instance.
                    "Seat him in the hall," Colonel Shenstone said to the servant," and
                        say that I will wait upon him presently."
                    The word "presently," in that case, meant at Colonel Shenstone's good
                        pleasure, and it was fully ten minutes by the loudly ticking hall clock before the master
                        appeared. When he did so, he said to his guest:
                    "Perhaps you'd like a dram after your six miles' drive from the
                        station?"
                    "Thank you, yes. I'll drink with you."
                    "Not with me," answered the old gentleman. "I never take spirits. But
                        my sideboard is hospitable of course to those who honor me by their visits. Henry, bring a
                        decanter, a sugar bowl, and a flagon of water."
                    It was observable that Colonel Shenstone did not order pipes and tobacco. The dram was a matter
                        of course to all comers in the Virginia of that time, even though the comer were only a negro
                        from the fields, presenting himself  to report that the chinch bug
                        had appeared in the wheat. But the pipe was sacred to a more equal hospitality. It was never
                        offered to any but guests accepted as gentlemen upon terms of equality.
                    Without that offer, therefore, Colonel Shenstone brought business to the fore by asking, with
                        suave indifference:
                    "May I inquire to what I am indebted for your visit?"
                    "Certainly. We sent you a note, you remember "
                    "Did you?"
                    "Yes. Surely you remember it. We demanded in behalf of our client, Mrs. Eulalie Lee, the
                        surrender to her of her minor, or in legal phrase, 'infant' daughter, known at
                        present as Valorie Page "
                    
                        "Miss Valorie Page, please."
                    "Yes, of course. You remember the terms of the note?"
                    "I remember nothing in this matter. Have you any proof of the contents of that alleged
                        note, or any evidence going to show that I ever received it?"
                    
                    "Why, I have your answer to it. Surely that is sufficient."
                    "Will you show it to me?"
                    The lawyer, utterly bewildered by Colonel Shenstone's attitude, drew the note from a
                        pocketbook and handed it to its author. Colonel Shenstone polished his eyeglasses, and adjusted
                        them to his nose. Then he read his own note to the lawyers, and said:
                    "I find no reference in this note to any antecedent communication from you or your firm.
                        I find only this: 
                            "' Dear Sirs: My residence is at Woodlands, and my office also is
                                there. If you have occasion to discuss any matters of legal import with me, I must
                                trouble you to call upon me there."
                        
                    
                    "There is no reference to any communication from you, and, as the note bears no address
                        except 'Dear Sirs,' there is absolutely nothing to show that it was addressed
                        to your firm."
                    "But surely, Colonel Shenstone, you must admit "
                    "I admit whatever is proved, and absolutely nothing else. Proceed if you
                        please."
                    
                    The man was discomfited, but he was a shrewd man of law, and he did not despair.
                    "Very well," he said. "I do not insist upon the fact that we have
                        previously communicated with you. It is unimportant. I make the communication now. You have
                        under your control one known as Valorie Page, the infant daughter of our client, Mrs. Eulalie
                        Lee, and in her behalf we demand the instant surrender of the girl "
                    "Why not say young lady?"
                    "Well, young lady, then. We demand the instant "
                    "Whatever demands you make, I decline to accede to. But pray go on. You have made a
                        number of unsupported statements. I suppose you have proof of them?"
                    "What, for instance?"
                    "Well, first that I have a young lady under my control. Have you any proof of
                        that?"
                    "I supposed you would admit that as a notorious fact."
                    "In this case I am admitting nothing whatever. I do not admit the existence of the young
                        lady. You must prove that. If there  is such a person I do not
                        admit that I have her in possession or subject to my control. You must prove that. If there is
                        any such person, which you must prove, I do not admit that she is an infant in law. You must
                        prove that. If there is any such person, I do not admit that she is the daughter of your client
                        you must prove that. By the way, have you any warrant of attorney empowering you to act for your
                        client?"
                    "You know, Colonel Shenstone, it is not customary "
                    "I know nothing except what is proved. Have you any such warrant of attorney authorizing
                        you to appear in behalf of this alleged client, and authorizing me to discuss matters with you
                        as her attorney?"
                    "I assure you "
                    "I did not ask for assurances. I asked for a legal document, in the absence of which I
                        must decline to discuss this matter further."
                    "As a lawyer, and in view of the peculiar nature of this case," responded
                        Stone, I quite understand. But as a lawyer I want to say before leaving that if you could and
                        would  abate somewhat the rigidity of your requirements as to
                        proof and the like, I think you and I might arrange a settlement of the affair out of court,
                        which would satisfy all parties concerned and avoid what shall I call it well, friction,
                        controversy, what you will. We might avoid litigation, which is always unpleasant and always
                        expensive. It is the practice of our firm, Colonel Shenstone, to embrace every opportunity to
                        settle things out of court. We have a fixed belief or conviction or whatever you choose to call
                        it, that it is always better to compromise than to fight. It saves money, it spares tender
                        sensibilities and "
                    "And it leaves more for the lawyers to divide," interrupted Colonel Shenstone.
                        "Perhaps that was not your thought. At any rate I may say this: I never respond to a
                        proposal of whatever sort it may be, until I know definitely and minutely what its terms are. In
                        the present instance I wish to emphasize the fact that I do not admit the existence of any case
                        to be compromised. But as you insist that there is some such case and ask me to consider a
                        proposal of compromise, I must ask  you to state definitely what
                        your claims are and upon what terms you propose to compromise them."
                    "Thank you. That is what I want. Our client, as the mother "
                    "Which I do not admit " answered the colonel.
                    "Which you do not admit. Yes. I fully understand that. Well, then, our client, claiming
                        to be the mother of a certain young woman "
                    "Whose existence I do not admit."
                    "Whose existence you do not admit we shall get on better, Colonel Shenstone, if we agree
                        that you admit nothing, and let me go on."
                    "Very well. With the understanding that I admit none of your statements, affirmatively
                        or negatively, by express words, or by silence, by affirmation or by implication in brief that I
                        reserve the right to dispute each and every one of them and to insist upon affirmative proof of
                        each and all, with that understanding you may proceed and I will not interrupt. Go on."
                    
                    "Very well then, and thank you. Our client, claiming to be the mother, and as such, the
                        natural custodian of a certain young lady, insists that she has an indefeasible right to the
                        services of that young woman during her minority, or, as the law calls it, her
                        'infancy.' The mother contends that at great expense she has educated the
                        young woman in a way that makes her services exceedingly valuable, that she has had her
                        expensively trained in certain arts of the stage, including music and dancing, which, if
                        practised at her present age and aided by her beauty, her grace, and her other accomplishments,
                        all of which have been cultivated at great expense to the mother, would yield a large return in
                        the way of salaries and emoluments. She claims that you have possession of the girl and are
                        restraining her from the earning of such salaries and emoluments, wherefore she demands either
                        that you restore the girl to her keeping or that you pay her a sufficient sum by way of damages
                        to compensate her for the loss of the girl's services. I think she would accept a very
                        reasonable sum "
                    
                    
                        "YOUR VEHICLE STANDS READY FOR YOU. GO! GO! GO!" Page
                            223.
                        
                    
                    
                    "Listen!" commanded Colonel Shenstone. "Go back to your client, and
                        say to her that I will see her hanged before I will let her get possession of the young
                        gentlewoman and before I will pay her the fraction of a cent by way of blackmail. Tell her
                        I'll spend the last dollar of my fortune in fighting her iniquitous purpose, if she
                        chooses to make that necessary, but that not one dollar will I consent to pay her in the way of
                        forfeit. And let me tell you, young man, that you'd do well to look to your
                        retainers' fees, for if there is aught of speculation in your acceptance of this
                        iniquitous case, it shall be a losing speculation to the end of the chapter. Go now. It is war,
                        you understand, and war with no quarter, no flags of truce, no negotiations, no anything but
                        gunfire and bayonet charges. Your vehicle stands ready for you. Go! Go! Go!"
                    Old as Colonel Shenstone was, his manner was so vehement, so determined, so indignant, under what
                        he deemed an insult, that the lawyer seriously feared violence at his hands. He paused not even
                        for the formality of adieus, but literally fled down the footway to the  horse blocks, leaped into his hired vehicle, and put the horse to his paces in
                        precipitate retreat.
                    When he had passed the outer gate, Colonel Shenstone withdrew into the house and wrote a letter
                        which he sent by his body servant to Mrs. Albemarle, in Richmond.
                    It had its results, as it was intended to have.
                
                
                
                    XXIII
                    
                        W
                        HAT Colonel Shenstone wrote to Mrs. Albemarle was this:
                    
                        "You Obstinate Person: If you persist long enough in your
                        determination to hold a possession adverse to me, there will be only one course open to me, in
                        case a writ is served upon me. I shall have to go into court and show that I am powerless to
                        produce what the court calls upon me to produce. It is important that I shall be able to do that
                        with a good conscience. I suppose your cantankerous obstinacy will make that not only possible
                        but actual. You always were high-handed in your methods, even when you were my ward, and I know
                        of no way in which to control you. Phil is due to arrive at the Exchange Hotel to-morrow
                        afternoon or night. He has several times intimated to me that he has control of funds belonging
                        to the Little  Minx. If she should have need of money, application
                        must be made to him, for, under present circumstances I must not advance a penny to an errant
                        and disobedient girl who has abandoned my protection and placed herself under that of an unruly
                        antagonist. Under ordinary circumstances of course, my bank account would be as freely at her
                        service as it will always be at Phil's, if ever he should need such service, which I
                        regard as extremely unlikely."
                    In writing this letter, Colonel Shenstone was guided somewhat by his conviction that Mrs.
                        Albemarle was a person of rather acute perceptions. It will be observed that the letter upon its
                        face, bore no indication of the identity of the person to whom it was addressed. The words:
                        "You obstinate person," might mean anybody, for who is there who does not seem
                        an obstinate person now and then? It was Colonel Shenstone's lifelong habit to write
                        his letters upon three pages of letter-sized paper, to fold them after the old fashion so as to
                        bring the fourth side of the sheet outside for the address, and to use no  envelope. In this case he violated all the traditions and set all his customs at
                        defiance. He searched Valorie's lap desk till he found an envelope. Then rather
                        awkwardly for he was unused to envelopes he managed to fold his sheet into a wad that he could
                        force into the receptacle. Then, after addressing the letter he wrote in the lower left hand
                        corner of the envelope, these words:
                    "Please let my servant bring this envelope back to me so that I may know certainly that
                        the letter has been delivered."
                    Mrs. Albemarle laughed a little as she read the letter, and she smiled as she wrote in reply:
                    
                        "You dear, unreasonable old bundle of law points: I scorn to keep
                        either your envelope, or the letter it held. I am returning both, far more neatly folded than
                        when they came to me. If you think for one moment to bend me from my purpose by your persuasions
                        or your threats, you will find yourself in error. I shall hold my adverse possession so
                        adversely that even your legal acumen shall find no way of breaking through it. Do your worst,
                        sir, and  you shall find my woman's wits not wanting in
                        any match with your legal ones.
                    "By the way, I've a duel or two to prevent. My college boys all fell in love
                        with V. of course. I knew they would, but I didn't think they would quarrel so
                        fiercely. I'll settle all that, however. I've sent a personal note to each of
                        them, peremptorily summoning each without mentioning the others to call upon me for a
                        confidential conference at three o'clock to-day. When they come and each finds the
                        others here, I'll laugh at them and we'll all go to dinner. I've
                        ordered three kinds of dessert besides syllabub, and all boys like sweet things. It is one of
                        the loveliest traits of their characters. It means that they haven't yet smoked enough
                        to spoil their natural appetites or vitiate their tastes. I wish they all loved romantic novels,
                        too, as all girls do. It would give one such a hold upon them, wouldn't it?"
                    Having sent off this missive, the Grand Dame the charm of whose personality lay largely in the
                        fact that she always knew what next to do wrote out a card and sent it to  the engravers with a "hurry order." This is the way in which it
                        read:
                    "Having decided to make a journey, Mrs. Albemarle finds it necessary to cancel all her
                        invitations for Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays until further notice. Mrs. Albemarle regrets
                        that for a time she must deny herself the society of her friends, and hopes soon to renew her
                        invitations."
                    She did not send these cards out, but held them in reserve for use if needed. The next day she
                        wrote a note to Phil Shenstone, who had just arrived at the Exchange Hotel.
                    
                        "My Dear Young Chevalier," she wrote; "I see by the
                        list of Hotel arrivals that you are in Richmond. I must see you at once. It is important. Never
                        mind hours or conventions, but come as soon as you can." Then in a postscript she
                        added:
                    "P. S. Don't misinterpret the peremptory tone of this note. It doesn't
                        mean that I want to scold you. It means on the contrary that I want to consult you about
                        somebody who is dear to both of us, I think. Anyhow you are to come at once. That is both my
                        request and  my command. Grant the one or obey the other as you
                        choose, but come, and come quickly."
                    "What a wonderful woman she is, anyhow," exclaimed Phil, as he tossed the note
                        to Greg Tazewell to read.
                    After reading it, Greg answered:
                    "Yes, she is quite all of that. What a pity it is that no man living has her brains, her
                        tact, her readiness of resource, her extraordinary perceptions and her marvelous ability to make
                        everybody do whatever she wants done! If that woman were a man she'd be President and
                        Secretary of State and Prime Minister of England and dominant diplomatist of all the world all
                        in the same twenty-four hours. I wonder what she has on hand now? I'll bet golden
                        guineas to gouber peas that she's planning something that will startle us by its
                        originality and its genius."
                    "I won't take the bet," answered Phil, "because one
                        doesn't care to lose even gouber peas on a wager. It humiliates one to lose a bet. But
                        I'll go at once to see her."
                    Half an hour later he presented himself at  Mrs.
                        Albemarle's, asking only for her, because he could not know what the situation might
                        be, and because she had made no mention of Valorie in her note. He had reflected: "Mrs.
                        Albemarle is not at all a haphazard person. Whatever she does or says is done or said with a
                        thoroughly well-considered purpose; and equally what she omits to say or do is omitted with a
                        well-considered purpose. So as she summoned me to meet herself, making no mention of Valorie, my
                        safest course is to ask only for her."
                    "My dear Phil, I need not ask you how you are," said the gracious lady, taking
                        both his hands as he approached and she advanced to meet him. "You look it every bit of
                        it and I'm glad. But you'll naturally want to see Valorie, presently, and
                        before that happens you and I have some business to attend to. Now you are not to ask me
                        anything about my plans. They constitute an inviolable secret. But Colonel Shenstone has
                        intimated to me that you may perhaps have some money in your hands to which Valorie has some
                        sort of claim. Is it so?"
                    
                    "Yes, certainly. Her father left me in charge of her affairs. He was a stockholder in
                        several steamboat companies "
                    "I don't care at all for the details, Phil, and you know I don't care
                        for the money. But I'm just about ready to do something for Valorie which will cost
                        some money and you know how proudly independent she is. She'll be sure presently to
                        throw an obstruction in my way by wanting to know where the money comes from for her share of
                        the expenses. So "
                    "Pardon me for interrupting," said Phil, smiling, "but you are so
                        transparent a creature, Mrs. Albemarle, that one doesn't need glasses to penetrate your
                        purposes. I quite understand. I am prepared to place a considerable sum of money
                        Valorie's own money, really and absolutely her own to her credit or yours, in any bank
                        you may name. I'll do it today within the hour."
                    "How stupid you men are!" answered she.
                    "All I want is to quiet Valorie's absurd scruples. She and I may go traveling
                        presently mind you, I don't say we shall and  we may even
                        decide to make a little tour in Europe mind you, again, I don't say we shall. But, just
                        by way of quieting her scruples, I want you to get for her a letter of credit "
                    "I see. I'll do it today. What else?"
                    "Only one other thing."
                    Going to her writing desk which stood behind the curtains of a deep bay window, she brought forth
                        a little parcel, saying:
                    "Here is a box of gloves which you are to remember that you bought at Breedon &
                        Fox's for her. Of course a man would go to Breedon &
                        Fox's for gloves a woman would prefer Price's. I'm going to send for
                        her now and you are to give her the gloves, in my presence, mind, so that there shall be no
                        unbecoming emotional trimmings to the procedure."
                    "But, Mrs, Albemarle," he exclaimed, staying her hand as she reached for the
                        bell rope, "I cannot consent "
                    "Oh, that's easily managed," she replied.
                    "You mean you must really pay for the gloves if you are to give them to her? Very well.
                        They cost fifteen dollars. You may discharge  the debt by sending
                        me flowers to that amount if you must."
                    She had already pulled the bell cord for Mrs. Albemarle's bell cords were placed within
                        easy and convenient reach. It was one of her eccentricities to insist upon having them so, and
                        the mechanics who arranged things about her house under her direction, had found her imperious
                        will as resistless as men and women of higher social position had discovered it to be. The bell
                        hanger whom she had compelled to place that silken cord conveniently by the side of the chimney
                        piece, had been as powerless in his desire to hang it behind the tall clock or in rear of the
                        antique Roman bookcase as Phil Shenstone now was to negative her will that he should give
                        Valorie the box of gloves.
                    There was this redeeming feature about Mrs. Albemarle's exactions of obedience, that she
                        always managed, in one way or in another, to make compliance agreeable. Thus in Phil
                        Shenstone's case he had wanted to stop at the florist's that morning and take
                        some flowers to Mrs. Albemarle. But he had reflected that  as he
                        had been summoned to her presence, and had not already paid his respects voluntarily, it might
                        seem something akin to an apology for him to bear a tribute of flowers on the occasion.
                        Moreover, one of Mrs. Albemarle's college boys, a youth whose maintenance in college
                        Phil Shenstone was surreptitiously bearing, had visited him promptly on his arrival, to tell him
                        of the guardianship of Valorie in which he had assisted. Incidentally the young man told him
                        that in gratitude to Mrs. Albemarle for her social recognition of himself, he had abstained from
                        the buying of a cravat which he coveted, and had spent the money thus saved, in three Jaqueminot
                        roses; that upon his presentation of them, Mrs. Albemarle had said:
                    "But, my dear Lucien, you mustn't spend your wealth upon me. Save it for
                        younger and eligible women. It is nice of you of course, but I shall not allow it in
                        future."
                    Then, the young fellow went on to relate as a curious coincidence, there had come to him, next
                        day with Mrs. Albemarle's compliments, a classical dictionary which he had longed for,
                             and half a dozen cravats, such as he should never have
                        dreamed of buying for himself.
                    On the whole the recital tended to restrain Phil Shenstone's impulse to carry flowers to
                        Mrs. Albemarle, though, as he afterwards saw very clearly, her impulse in the case of the
                        college boy, had been one in no wise applicable to himself. At any rate he was glad now of an
                        excuse to send limitless flowers to the gracious woman who was doing so much for Valorie.
                    In answer to Mrs. Albemarle's summons, Valorie presently floated into the parlor. Phil
                        Shenstone found it impossible to think of her entrance into a room otherwise than as floating.
                        She had not known or suspected that he was there, or within five hundred miles of her. When she
                        saw him all the reserve that belongs to the young gentlewoman went out of her, and all the
                        candor of the child that remained to her came forth. She ran forward impulsively crying:
                        "Oh, it's Mr. Phil! it's Mr. Phil!" and she was on the point
                        of throwing her arms about his neck when she remembered something.
                    
                    What it was, is no matter. When she remembered it she chastened her greeting into one of cordial
                        friendship only.
                    "I'm glad she didn't kiss him," thought the wise woman who
                        was looking on. "That would have meant that she didn't love him as I want her
                        to do. It would have meant that she feels for him nothing more than the coldblooded friendship
                        to which she is now so diligently pretending. As she suddenly restrained herself and is now
                        behaving in a singularly discreet manner, I know of course that she does love him, and I can
                        afford to leave the result to Cupid. Phil Shenstone is stupid in such matters of course. All
                        strong men are, and especially all men strong enough to be modest. But he'll wake up
                        after awhile and find out what's what. That's the charm of men. Great, stupid,
                        dull-witted fellows that they are, they never know when a woman is in love with them. They
                        construe the plainest possible indications of it to mean something exactly the reverse. I dare
                        say Phil Shenstone observed Valorie's impulse to kiss him, and saw the way in which she
                        restrained it, and argued in his  own mind that it all meant she
                        loved some other fellow, and mustn't caress him for fear of disloyalty or
                        misconstruction or some other absurd thing of that sort. The stupidity of men is really very
                        annoying at times; but at any rate it is amusing. Some day, when these two shall have found out
                        what and how much they mean to each other, I'll have my laugh at them and explain to
                        them how absurd their behavior in this present time seemed to me to be."
                    In the meanwhile, Phil Shenstone was putting his own construction upon Valorie's
                        behavior. He had seen and understood her childlike impulse to rush into his arms and caress him.
                        He had observed the suddenness with which she abandoned that purpose, and adopted a tone of
                        cordial friendliness instead.
                    "In her gratitude to me," he argued, "for having rescued her from
                        conventual restraints and from a repulsive life prospect, and for having brought her into a
                        larger life which she intensely enjoys, the old, childish impulse to caress me was for the
                        moment dominant. But she remembered that she is a young  woman
                        now, with a personal dignity to maintain. More important still, she remembered that well, she
                        remembered Greg Tazewell, the one man who means all there is in the world to her.
                    "She is right, of course. He is fitter to make her happy than I am, and besides he has
                        awakened her soul, as I never did and never could. It is better so. Greg and I are friends. I
                        will take myself utterly out of his way. Whatever of gratitude and personal friendship Valorie
                        may feel for me, must weigh nothing in the scale. As soon as this tangle in her affairs can be
                        straightened out, I'll go back to my steamboating and leave the two to be happy.
                    
                        "But I shall never love any other woman than Valorie Page so long as I
                            live."
                    
                    Then another thought entered his mind as if some Demon of Suggestion had thrust it there.
                    "If Valorie and Greg were married, these people would have no further claim upon her.
                        She would be free. Why shouldn't they solve the riddle in that easy way?"
                    
                    But somehow that thought troubled him so greatly that he dared not entertain it. He was one of
                        two gentlemen of Virginia, and as such he would in the end do his duty, whatever personal
                        distress it might cause him. But as one shrinks from the surgeon's knife even when he
                        knows its use to be necessary, so, for the present, Phil Shenstone shrank from actively
                        suggesting what seemed to be the only or at any rate the easiest way out of existing
                        complications.
                    He gave Valorie the gloves, but he did it in a way that robbed the act of every particle of the
                        significance Mrs. Albemarle had intended it to bear.
                    Then he went away and sent Mrs. Albemarle her flowers. Perhaps in her eyes he mended matters a
                        trifle by sending Valorie at the same time a little bunch of forget-me-nots, which as Mrs.
                        Albemarle delightedly observed, the girl cherished with special tenderness, throwing some
                        gaudier blooms away to make place for them.
                
                
                
                    XXIV
                    
                        A
                        S he drove away from Woodlands, the lawyer, Stone, puzzled himself mightily
                        and to no purpose. He could not make out the cause of Colonel Shenstone's indignant
                        outbreak, for the reason that neither his thinking habit nor his moral perception lay within the
                        same plane in which the old Virginian's thinking was done. Trained as the young man had
                        been in that school of legal ethics which had found acceptance among the smaller men of the
                        profession in many parts of the country, he could not understand how anything that lay within
                        the limits of technical legality could be otherwise than proper. The proposal of compromise
                        which he had suggested to the old Virginian had been carefully kept within those limits. He had
                        made no threat of anything to be done in case of its non-acceptance. And yet Colonel Shenstone
                             had angrily called it a threat of blackmail. Cudgel his brain
                        as he might, Stone could remember no precedent, no decision, no obiter dictum
                        even, upon which a court could so construe what he had said; and as statutory definition and
                        court construction were to his mind the ultimate sources of ethical obligation, he felt that he
                        had been guilty of no wrong doing.
                    Yet he was not without apprehension. Since his advent in Virginia he had discovered that in that
                        strangely constituted society which he could neither understand nor secure admission to quixotic
                        old gentlemen of Colonel Shenstone's type, especially where they stood high at the bar
                        as the colonel did, were able to exercise an influence over courts and juries that he could in
                        no wise understand. They seemed to be able, upon occasion, to go behind the "statutes
                        in that case made and provided," and to invoke a higher law which they called honor,
                        with extraordinary success.
                    Indeed, it was his observation of this sort of thing that had induced Stone to leave New York at
                        the beginning of his career and seek  a practice in Virginia.
                        During a period of observation there he had made up his mind that the lawyers in that state were
                        sadly wanting in sagacity. They seemed to be able men, learned in those broad principles of law
                        and equity which he had purposely neglected, because of his quick appreciation of their
                        uselessness in the winning of cases; but every time he went into court as a spectator of
                        proceedings, he saw these men actually losing vital points in their cases, not only by their
                        quixotic refusal to take advantage of technicalities that tended to the defeat of justice, but
                        still more by their refusal to pervert provisions of law to the advantage of their clients, as
                        they easily might have done. These men actually proceeded upon that exploded old dictum of the
                        English law, which they had sworn to obey, that a lawyer's duty is to be "true
                        to himself, true to the law, true to the court, and true to the client." They put
                        themselves first, insisting upon it that as gentlemen they must maintain an attitude of honor
                        and integrity, even though the client's cause should suffer loss. They insisted upon
                        being true to  the law, even when the law was adverse to their
                        clients. They recognized their obligation to be "true to the court" by
                        refusing to pervert law in the interest of clients who had paid them to conduct their cases to
                        successful issue. In their view the interests of the client were subsidiary to all these higher
                        considerations, and so in their hands a client was likely to lose his case if it were not a good
                        one, supported by considerations of right and justice.
                    This was not Fernando Stone's idea of the function of the lawyer. He had been trained to
                        think that it is the sole duty of the lawyer to win his client's case, right or wrong,
                        and to that end to employ every means in his power.
                    As he sat looking on at Virginia court proceedings, he saw case after case lost upon principle
                        which he confidently believed he could have won by disregard of principle and insistence upon
                        technicality.
                    He saw a great opportunity for the exercise of his peculiar abilities in a State in which the
                        practitioners of law were so greatly hampered and restrained by conscience and by absurd
                        traditions of honorable conduct.
                    
                    So, taking a partner of his own kind, he settled in Richmond. In the lower courts he achieved a
                        certain measure of success. He succeeded by adroit insistence upon technicalities, in so far
                        winning his cases as to bring himself into a considerable practice and into hopeless disrepute
                        among honorable men. But to his surprise his success in the higher courts met with obstacles
                        which he could in no wise understand. There seemed to prevail in those courts a disposition to
                        regard justice and right, and the obligations of common honesty as actually superior to
                        statutory provisions. More annoying still, the courts of Virginia insisted upon construing even
                        statutory provisions in the light of these absurdly sentimental theories of "right
                        between man and man." In one case in particular, Stone had met with defeat in a
                        peculiarly humiliating manner. Before Judge Clopton he had made a technical point with great
                        ingenuity. The Judge courteously commended the ingenuity of the counsel, but added:
                    "The court can not believe that the law of Virginia intends injustice or means to
                        tolerate  it. The construction which the ingenuity of counsel has
                        sought to place upon it, would, if sustained by the court, work a grievous injustice. The court,
                        therefore, refuses to accept that construction, and instructs the jury to disregard it utterly.
                        With that instruction, given with all the emphasis the court can command, the jury will take the
                        case." And the jury did, and gave a verdict against his client.
                    Nevertheless, Fernando Stone, as he drove to the station, was unable to understand Colonel
                        Shenstone's angry reception of his proposal of compromise. It was clear to his mind
                        that his client's case had enough of plausibility in it to make defense against it a
                        rather costly indulgence. With a view to his own fees, he stood ready to advise a compromise if
                        the colonel had consented to pay a sum much smaller than the cost of litigation, a sum one-half
                        of which he would gladly take as his own compensation. He even stood ready, in that case, to
                        compel his client's acceptance of half of the money in satisfaction of her claim, by
                        advising her that she really had no case at all,  and that she
                        ought to be very grateful to him for having compelled Colonel Shenstone to buy her off.
                    Colonel Shenstone's meditations after the man's departure, were of a very
                        different kind.
                    "Confound the fellow!" he thought for he objected to swearing as unbecoming in
                        a gentleman "confound the fellow! I wonder what sort of swinish brute he thought me.
                        Anyhow, I've given him enough points on which he must furnish proof to keep him busy
                        till Phil comes and tells me the whole story. Till he does, I'm crippled by lack of
                        knowledge of the facts. When I know them all I'll find a way to twist that wretched
                        little statute-monger into all sorts of double bow knots. I can beat him on the principles of
                        course, even without the facts. There isn't a court in Virginia that would take my dear
                        Little Minx out of my care and turn her over to a woman who wants to make a stage performer of
                        her. But I want to know the facts, I'll write to Greg to send Phil to me the moment he
                        gets to Richmond."
                    And he did. And in due course of mail  his summons should have
                        reached Greg Tazewell and through him come into Phil Shenstone's hands, early on the
                        next morning. But as his body servant never could be persuaded to understand that the postal
                        requirements of the United States Government were applicable to missives sent by so
                        distinguished a person as his master, he omitted to affix a stamp to Colonel
                        Shenstone's letter.
                    The body servant was so far right in his understanding of such matters that the postmaster at the
                        station, instead of sending the communication to the dead letter office for lack of postage,
                        held it until the next day, when embracing an opportunity, he returned it to Colonel Shenstone
                        with a rather elaborate apology, explanation and humble request that the stamp required by law
                        should be affixed to it.
                    In the meanwhile Greg Tazewell, to whom the letter was addressed, had left Richmond for the North
                        without explanation, without previous notice to anybody, and leaving behind him only a brief
                        note, written to give his address to Phil Shenstone in case of need.
                
                
                
                    XXV
                    
                        B
                        UT Phil Shenstone needed no summons from his uncle. He had hurried from the
                        West to Richmond for the express purpose of going to Woodlands, consulting Colonel Shenstone and
                        taking upon himself the fight in Valorie's behalf. It had been his intention to go at
                        once to Woodlands without pausing even to have his clothes brushed or his shoes polished. But
                        Greg Tazewell had sent an emissary to meet him at the railway station, and in answer to the
                        summons he had gone to the hotel to meet his friend and learn what he could of the situation.
                        Then had come Mrs. Albemarle's note and he had felt bound to respond to it. Upon
                        leaving her he must go to the florist's, of course, and discharge himself of his
                        indebtedness for the gloves. After that he had to go to the bank to secure the promised letter
                        of  credit, and that took so much time that really he felt that it
                        would not do to leave its delivery to the deliberate movements of a bank messenger. Mrs.
                        Albemarle had named no time within which the document should be delivered, but she had
                        mysteriously intimated her purpose to do something without delay and he, in his turn, had
                        assured her that he would arrange the matter at once. It was obvious, therefore, that he ought
                        to deliver the document in person. Besides well, he had seen Valorie only in Mrs.
                        Albemarle's presence, and possibly no, it would be better if it should turn out
                        otherwise. Still well on the whole his duty to deliver the financial paper in person and at once
                        was obvious. Moreover, the cashier had charged him to see to it that Valorie should write her
                        signature upon it for identification, and that might need some explanation to one so unused as
                        she was to financial transactions.
                    So, calling a cab, he drove to Mrs. Albemarle's.
                    That was precisely what that sagacious gentlewoman had expected him to do, and in  preparation for it she had conjured up a weariness. She never had
                        a headache. She was too abundantly healthly for that sort of feminine indulgence.
                        "Besides," she often said when that plea was suggested to her,
                        "nobody would ever believe me. For the life of me I can't 'look the
                        part' of a lackadaisical, headache-ridden woman." But to-day, in anticipation
                        of Phil Shenstone's visit, of which she was as confident as she was of the striking of
                        the clock, she took pains to feel weary and indisposed to exert herself in the reception of
                        visitors.
                    "I'm going to make myself comfortable for once, Val," she said.
                        "I'm going to put off my gown and snuggle into something soft, and warm and
                        easy. If anybody calls I'll excuse myself. I'm going to rest while you read
                        John Esten Cooke's new novel to me. It's called 'Henry St. John,
                        Gentleman,' and you'll find it on the table. You know John Esten Cooke is our
                        Virginia novelist, and he's sure to call here pretty soon. When he does we must both be
                        prepared to talk intelligently about his new novel. Besides, 
                        he's the dearest soul imaginable a gentleman altogether, gentle and manly, and the very
                        soul of honor and chivalry. I wish all our young men were such as he is. Be sure, when you talk
                        to him to remember that it was his brother, Philip Pendleton Cooke, who wrote 'Florence
                        Vane,' the poem you were reading last night. There's a chance that some others
                        may call to-day, possibly John R. Thompson, or even 'the solitary
                        horseman.'"
                    "Who's the solitary horseman, please?" asked Val.
                        "I've met a Mr. Cooke and Mr. Thompson, but who is the other?"
                    "Why, George Prince Regent James, of course. That isn't his name exactly, but
                        we who know him and love him, call him that, just for fun, and because he is a very prince
                        regent of courtesy. His real name is George Payne Rainsford James, and you've read his
                        novels as by G. P. R. James. He's Her Britannic Majesty's Consul in Richmond
                        and the jolliest old boy you ever saw. John R. Thompson, as of course you know, is another of
                        our literary lights. He's a poet and the editor of the Southern Literary
                            Messenger.
                         By the way, in case, he should call you'd better
                        beforehand read a little poem he has just published. It is called 'Lou.'
                        You'll find the magazine containing it on my dressing table. It has a line in it well
                        worth remembering, Describing Lou it says: 
                            'And the soft October sunshine was tangled in her hair.'
                         That's better than Tennyson's 
                            'Glittering like a swarm of fireflies, tangled in a silver braid,'
                         because it's simpler and more natural, it seems to me. If you agree with me,
                        remember to express that opinion the first time Thompson calls. There are some others. I think
                        you've met Mr. DeWitt, the editor, and Mr. A. Judson Crane who practices law for a
                        living and writes poetry for pleasure. Now that I think of it, Richmond is quite a literary
                        centre. There are four or five of my Richmond college boys who write verses for the Waverly Magazine and send them to me to be admired."
                    "There don't seem to be any women in your list," said Valorie.
                    
                    "Oh, of course there are Marion Harland and Mary Raglan and half a dozen other dear
                        friends of mine who write divinely. But they are women and if any of them should call
                        I'd order them up here for a cozy chat. I was only cataloguing the men, because if any
                        one of them calls you'll have to receive him and tell him I've wrapped myself
                        up in cotton wool till I'm utterly invisible. He'll be glad of that, if he has
                        good taste, and if he hasn't he may as well go away. You see, dear, men are like
                        morning glories."
                    "How do you mean?"
                    "Why morning glories lovingly climb over any old stump or railpile, and cling to it as
                        if they really appreciated it, when in fact what they want is access to the sunlight above. So
                        it is with men. I'm over forty, my dear, and supremely happily married. I love and
                        trust my husband and he loves and trusts me. Incidentally, and just for your private
                        instruction, he and I worship each other in private, though in public we pose merely as the best
                        of good comrades. We're carrying on a social establishment together, and we're
                        getting a lot  of fun out of it. He rejoices to see me a social
                        queen, and I rejoice to see him a king among men. He's a judge, you know, of our
                        highest court, and so his word is law. If any distinguished gentleman from any part of the world
                        comes to Richmond, he becomes Judge Albemarle's guest, quite as a matter of course, and
                        I really have a great deal of trouble, dear, in deciding in each case whom to invite to meet the
                        distinguished stranger. I must pick out six, eight or ten as the case may be, and it is a puzzle
                        to know which six, eight or ten to choose. I must say Judge Albemarle is always ready to help
                        me. If there are thirty men who ought to be invited and thirty women of course, and we
                        can't invite but ten of each and don't know whom to choose, he suddenly has an
                        inspiration. Not that I suggest it, dear, for I never do that, and when you are married
                        you'll do well to remember never to suggest anything to your husband. If you let him
                        take the initiative always, he'll appreciate his manhood and worship you as the very
                        wisest woman in the world, a woman who adequately recognizes masculinity. But you  can very easily put him in the way of suggesting the right thing.
                    "For instance, when Jack and I I mean the Judge of course, but I have a habit of calling
                        him Jack because that is what he was called when I married him when he and I find it impossible
                        to determine which ten men should be chosen, of the thirty that ought to be invited to meet the
                        distinguished stranger, I fall into a state of hopeless imbecility and begin
                        'wishing' things. Of course 'wishing' is the resort and
                        resource of imbeciles only. I 'wish' our dining room would accommodate the
                        whole thirty and the complementary women, and I say, 'then we could give three dinners
                        at once.' Of course the wish is futile, and I know it; but it suggests something
                        brilliant to Jack, and that is what I intend.
                    "'Great thought,' he exclaims. 'We can't give one
                        dinner to thirty men and thirty women but why not give three dinners to ten men and ten women
                        each, on successive evenings? It would emphasize your social control of the distinguished
                        stranger.' I meekly  submit and the thing goes off
                        perfectly. Jack, the dear fellow oh, I forgot, I should say Judge Albemarle is happy and I am
                        happy, and everybody else is happy. There's nothing in the world like tact, Val, and
                        after all it is only a tender deference to other people's self love. And why
                        shouldn't we minister to that? It is only a kindly, generous, sympathetic thing to do.
                        Did it ever occur to you, Val, that to every human being the most interesting thing in existence
                        is himself? Then if we want our fellows to be happy, why shouldn't we feel and manifest
                        an interest in them? That's what we call 'tact' but after all it is
                        nothing but kindly human sympathy, and as we are all human, why shouldn't we cultivate
                        it? It seems to me that there is only a choice between 'tact,' which means
                        sympathy, and the utter selfishness which puts others out of the reckoning and regards only
                        oneself. For my part I prefer to be interested in others and to make them feel that I am
                        so."
                    "But my dear Mrs. Albemarle," said Valorie, who neither understood nor
                        suspected what was going on with respect to herself, and  who knew
                        not why she was lingering so long in town, "All you are saying to me sounds as if I
                        were to remain here for a long time to come, when I'm daily expecting Uncle Butler to
                        send the Woodlands carriage for me. In fact I've written asking him to do so, now that
                        the theatricals are over. Of course it's delightful to be with you, but Uncle Butler
                        needs me to keep him company, and I'm positively frightened when I think how the
                        housekeeping there is going at loose ends."
                    "My dear," returned the elder woman, "you don't understand.
                        You are staying here not only with Colonel Shenstone's consent, but by his desire. You
                        shall know all about it presently, but just now it's a dead secret between Colonel
                        Shenstone and me."
                    With that she withdrew into her dressing room to "snuggle into something soft and warm
                        and easy," as she had said, and Valorie sat down in great perplexity. She took up the
                        magazine and tried to read John R. Thompson's little poem, but she could not keep her
                        attention fixed upon the lines. As she thought of what her hostess had said to  her, her perplexity became a troubled anxiety. Could it be that
                        she had offended Colonel Shenstone, or that he too had been displeased by her assumption of
                        Jennie Hight's part? He had not seemed to be so at the time, but perhaps it was only
                        his courtesy to conceal his displeasure. Then another thought came to her. Perhaps he had fallen
                        ill again and was trying to conceal the fact from her. At that thought she became positively
                        alarmed.
                    At that moment Mrs. Albemarle returned to the room just as a maid entered, bearing Phil
                        Shenstone's card.
                    "Go down and receive him, dear. Tell him I'm fleece-lined now and all muffled
                        up, and am seeing nobody but that you are taking my place."
                
                
                
                    XXVI
                    
                        I
                        T was with something of eagerness but more of reluctance that Valorie
                        descended the stairs and entered the parlors to meet Phil Shenstone alone. She eagerly wanted to
                        see him again and talk with him in the old familiar way. There were scores of things she wanted
                        to say to him and scores of other things she wanted to ask him. And yet she felt a strange
                        shrinking from the interview which she could in no wise explain to herself. If she could have
                        had Mrs. Albemarle with her, as she had had her in the morning, as a sort of protector, she felt
                        that the meeting would have been an altogether welcome event. As it was, she twice paused upon
                        the stairs, half minded to retreat. She was both amused and angry with herself for her senseless
                        shrinking.
                    "What is the matter with me, I wonder?"  she said
                        to herself. "I'm not afraid of Mr. Phil at least I never was before. No,
                        that's not it. I'm not afraid of him now. He's the best friend I ever
                        had in the world. It is something else, I'm afraid of. Maybe I'm afraid of
                        myself. I reckon that's it, but I don't understand it. It's only
                        foolishness anyhow."
                    And with a determined dismissal of the unworthy fear she calmly passed into the room where he
                        sat, and tried to greet her friend and protector with the old cordiality that had marked their
                        intercourse ever since he had taken her from the convent, rescuing her from something, she knew
                        not what, and bringing her into the easy, graceful and strangely fascinating Virginia life that
                        she loved so much. Her effort was measurably successful, but not so completely so as she had
                        hoped to make it. Phil Shenstone discovered the effort she was making to banish restraint from
                        her manner, and to him the explanation seemed obvious.
                    "She is shy of telling me about her feeling for Greg Tazewell," he thought. And
                        on his own part he dreaded lest she should do  so. He had no doubt
                        of the facts, but he shrank from her confession of them as from an expected blow.
                    In his anxiety to prevent the open revelation, he managed to put something of strangeness and
                        hardness into his own manner, which Valorie had never seen there before.
                    Under ordinary circumstances, meeting her after so long an absence, his first words would have
                        been:
                    "Sit here by me, Val, and tell me all about yourself."
                    He dared not say that now, lest the telling "all about herself," should consist
                        chiefly in telling him the one thing he shrank from hearing from her lips, though he confidently
                        believed he knew it already. He felt that he could hear that news with a calmer mind from Greg
                        Tazewell himself, and indeed he had gone to Greg's hotel room while waiting for the
                        letter of credit, for the express purpose of giving his friend an opportunity to tell him. Half
                        to his disappointment and half to his relief, he had discovered that the young doctor had left
                        at noon for New York, leaving  a note for himself, saying that he
                        had been suddenly called North and giving him an address in New York where he might be reached
                        by mail or telegraph if Colonel Shenstone should fall ill again or in the event of any other
                        emergency requiring his presence in Virginia.
                    Confidently supposing that Valorie must know all about this matter, Phil was on the point of
                        asking her when Tazewell would return, but he shrank from that as he had done from the other
                        suggested opening of the conversation, lest it lead at once to the revelation he dreaded to
                        receive from her lips.
                    So after the first greetings were over there was an awkward pause such as had never before vexed
                        the intercourse of these two. By way of ending it, Phil said:
                    "I'm delighted to see you looking so well, Val, and I'm glad to tell
                        you that our steamboats are all prosperously busy again."
                    The girl eagerly caught at the opportunity thus to avoid a too personal conversation.
                    "Yes," she said quickly, "Dr. Tazewell told me a few days ago that you
                        had succeeded  in getting your business affairs into a
                        satisfactory state again, and I'm so glad for your sake."
                    "You've reason to be glad for your own, Val. Did I never tell you that all the
                        money your father left with me for you is invested in those steamboats?"
                    "I don't think you ever did, or if you did I suppose I wasn't paying
                        attention. Anyhow I've been perfectly satisfied to leave all that to you."
                    "Thank you. I'm glad to report that your money has quite doubled itself since
                        your father's death, and in the present condition of the steamboat business it is
                        likely to double itself again within the next year,unless for some reason you should decide to
                        withdraw it and invest it in some other way."
                    "Why how could I ever think of that, Mr. Phil? You're the best friend I ever
                        had, aren't you?"
                    "I hope you'll always think so Val, and I intend to be that always, but I
                        didn't know. You see well don't let us talk of that. When Greg comes back
                        "
                    
                    "Why, has Dr. Tazewell gone away?" she asked in a surprise so genuine that he
                        could not doubt its reality. "I don't think he told Mrs. Albemarle he was
                        going."
                    Phil Shenstone was sorely puzzled, but the subject was a dangerous one for minute inquiry, so he
                        merely answered:
                    "I rather wonder at that. All I know is that when I tried to see him an hour or two ago
                        I found him gone. He left a note for me saying he had been suddenly called to New York and
                        giving me his address there."
                    The girl sat in meditation for a moment. Then she asked:
                    "Will you give me the address? You see if Uncle Butler should have another dangerous
                        attack I should want to telegraph him to come back immediately. I simply couldn't let
                        any other doctor treat Uncle Butler. I don't believe there is any other doctor who
                        could do it successfully. At any rate I shouldn't want any other to have the
                        case."
                    Phil personally shared Valorie's opinion of the superiority of Greg Tazewell's
                        learning and skill, but he interpreted her attitude as a 
                        confirmation of his conviction that these two had come to an understanding. "A woman
                        never thinks in that way," he reflected, "about any man but the one who has
                        won her heart completely."
                    "I quite agree with you," he answered, "but I hope the emergency you
                        suggest may not arise. I'm going out to Woodlands this afternoon by the train, to
                        attend to some business. I imagine Uncle Butler has been wondering why I am not there already.
                        But I couldn't go till now. I had some matters to attend to here, chiefly for Mrs.
                        Albemarle. By the way, the main thing she wanted me to do was to get this document for you, and
                        as I can't see her I must put it into your hands. It's just as well, for you
                        must put your signature beneath it."
                    "What is it?" she asked with that little scared feeling with which women
                        unaccustomed to documentary solemnities always approach a matter of the kind.
                    "Oh, it is nothing very dreadful nothing that need alarm you. It is only a letter of
                        credit."
                    
                    "What is that?"
                    "Why, simply a letter issued by a bank, telling bankers in other cities that you have
                        money on deposit in the bank issuing it, and asking them to cash any drafts you may make upon
                        your account."
                    "But I haven't any use for such a letter as that a letter of credit."
                    "You might have, Val. If you should travel to the North or to Europe, you'd
                        need "
                    The girl rose excitedly and confronted Phil, who courteously rose as she did.
                    "What does all this mean, Mr. Phil?" she asked with a flash of anger in her
                        eyes which made her seem more beautiful than ever to Phil Shenstone. "Mrs. Albemarle is
                        having a lot of clothes made for me that I don't in the least need, and she
                        won't tell me why. She refuses to let me go back to Woodlands, and she won't
                        tell me why. Uncle Butler doesn't send the carriage for me, and he won't tell
                        me why. And now you have been getting this paper for me, and you won't tell me why. You
                        must and you shall, or I'll go to Woodlands  by train and
                        make Uncle Butler tell me. What does it all mean?"
                    "Sit down again, Val, and listen," he said soothingly. "I see how you
                        feel about these things and I don't wonder you feel so. You think we are treating you
                        like a child, and we have no right to do that, for you are a grown woman now and a woman
                        entitled to be consulted in all that concerns herself. But, believe me, those who care very
                        dearly for you, have preserved secrecy with respect to those plans, not because they did not
                        trust your judgment and your womanly capacity to act wisely, but simply because they wished to
                        spare you annoyance over troubles that may never come. For my part I do not think their secrecy
                        wise in itself or just to you, and I am deliberately going to betray it, by telling you the
                        facts so far as you may care to know them. I'm under no pledge of secrecy and no
                        obligation of any kind to withhold these things. So if you will dismiss your vexation with me
                        and listen, you shall hear all about it."
                    "Oh, thank you, Mr. Phil," she said eagerly, resuming her seat. "You
                        know I  couldn't be angry with you. But please go on.
                        I'm on pins and needles of anxiety."
                    Unhappily for Valorie, another caller was at that moment announced. As she afterwards said:
                    "Things will happen in that way sometimes, and one just has to bear it
                        with a smiling face; but it is very annoying."
                    She bore herself well under the infliction, but she made what effort she could to shorten the
                        period of interruption. She told the visitor, with every mark of sincerity, how sorry she was
                        that Mrs. Albemarle could see no callers that day, and as she did so she indulged a hope that he
                        would announce his purpose to call again, and take his leave. Instead of that he gallantly
                        declared that Valorie's presence amply compensated for any other absence.
                    "I shall certainly not report that speech to Mrs. Albemarle," she replied.
                    "No, please don't."
                    And so with entirely vapid and meaningless pleasantries for conversation, he sat out the full
                        time allowed by custom for a call. It was  a brief time, of
                        course, but to impatient Valorie it seemed at least an hour. And the worst of it was that she
                        was beset by apprehension lest some other caller should come before this one left. She was
                        spared that, however, and at last Phil was able to tell her what she so greatly wanted to hear.
                    "There are some people, Val," he began, "who are trying to get
                        possession and control of you by some sort of legal process. I don't understand just
                        how they intend to go about it, but I suppose Uncle Butler does, and he had Greg Tazewell
                        telegraph me to come on here so that I may give him all the facts in your case. You see he must
                        know everything I know, in order to defeat these people's purposes. That's why
                        I must go to Woodlands by the afternoon train. I'm afraid he is very impatiently
                        waiting for me. As nearly as I understand the matter he intends to fight it out in the courts,
                        if he finds he can do so successfully, and if not, then to fight it out in some other way. Until
                        he gets all the facts from me, he cannot be sure what he can do in the courts. If he finds that
                        he cannot surely  beat the rascally lawyers at the legal game I
                        reckon he intends to put you out of their reach and beat them in that way. I don't know
                        that. It is only my conjecture. I imagine he is keeping you here with Mrs. Albemarle so that
                        nobody can serve any sort of papers upon you, and I suppose that if worse comes to worst, he
                        intends Mrs. Albemarle to slip away with you and take you to Europe for a time. I suppose that
                        is why she is having a wardrobe prepared for you so that you may be ready to slip away at a
                        moment's notice."
                    The girl's face was so pale that Phil thought she was going to faint, but there was a
                        resolute look in her eyes that reassured him. She tried to say something, but succeeded only in
                        getting out the words: "Go on please!"
                    "I've told you all you need to know for the present," he said,
                        "all that I myself know, for that matter, and I have barely time to catch my train. You
                        must go above stairs now and rest. I'll return to Richmond the moment I get through
                        with Uncle Butler. Till then adieu."
                    
                    Valorie would have detained him if she could. She had many questions to ask and some things to
                        say on her own account. But Phil understood, if she did not, how important it was not to tax her
                        nervous strength further, and the necessity of hurrying to catch the train afforded him ample
                        excuse for an abrupt parting. Fearing that she might faint upon his withdrawal, he pulled the
                        bell cord before he passed out the door.
                    She called after him:
                    "Thank you, Mr. Phil, with all my heart. You're always good to
                    me."
                
                
                
                    XXVII
                    
                        P
                        HIL SHENSTONE had been gone scarcely half an hour when the
                        Woodlands' carriage drove up, with Valorie's own maid for its solitary
                        passenger.
                    The maid bore a brief note from Col. Shenstone to Mrs. Albemarle, asking her to send Valorie home
                        in the carriage and adding by way of explanation:
                    "I fear I am coming down again under a severe attack of my old enemy, gout, and with
                        Greg gone North I don't know where and Phil not arrived yet, I cannot get on without my
                        Little Minx. Please let the carriage begin its return journey as soon as Valorie can be ready,
                        lest the trip extend beyond the daylight."
                    Valorie, pale, frightened and exceedingly indignant, was sitting in her own room when the
                        carriage came, trying to formulate a purpose  already born in her
                        mind, and to determine in what way she could most effectively carry it out. She was resolved,
                        for one thing that she would not run away from the danger that threatened her, and the nature of
                        which she understood more clearly than Phil Shenstone did.
                    "It would be cowardly to do that," she reflected, "and I
                        don't think I'm a coward. No, I'll stay while Uncle Butler and Mr.
                        Phil fight it out for me, and if they are beaten, I know what to do. I know what those people
                        want. They intend to get possession of me and make a public performer of me for their own
                        benefit. Very well. I'll balk that. They may get possession of me, but they cannot make
                        a public performer of me, for I will not perform. Not a note will I strike for them, not a step
                        will I dance, no matter what they may do to me."
                    It was then that Mrs. Albemarle entered the room bearing Colonel Shenstone's note, and
                        instantly every thought was driven out of the girl's mind except that of setting out
                        for Woodlands at the earliest possible moment.  She bade her maid
                        pack a little trunk for her hurriedly.
                    "Just throw the things in, Sylvia; never mind folding them. We must
                        get away quickly. Is your master very, very ill? Tell me the truth, do you hear?"
                    "No, Miss Valorie, he doan seem very sick to me. He's jes'
                        limpin' roun' an' frettin' like, an' his lips is
                        purty pale, but dat's all, as fur's I kin see. But he's mighty
                        onpatient to git you home. He scolded me fur wantin' to stop long enough to change my
                        dress, and made me git into de carriage jes' as I was, 'thout even
                        breshin' my ha'."
                    "I understand. Hand me his note from the table there."
                    She was changing her gown with Mrs. Albemarle's assistance, and as she stood she read
                        the note again. One phrase in it struck her for the first time. It was that in which Colonel
                        Shenstone mentioned Greg Tazewell's absence at the North and added, "I
                        don't know where." Instantly she realized that no telegram had yet been sent
                        to Tazewell; that it would be at least two hours before Phil could  reach Woodlands; and that it would be still another hour before he could get a telegram back
                        to the railway station for transmission to New York. Fortunately Phil had given her the address,
                        and she resolved to save those three hours by sending a despatch on her own responsibility.
                        About the only definite idea she had with regard to a telegraphic message was that it should be
                        couched in as few words as possible. In her effort to comply with that requirement she managed
                        to make her despatch a very peremptory one. It read:
                    "Come home quick. Uncle ill."
                    She did not pause to reflect that as Tazewell had not left Richmond until noon of that day, he
                        was scarcely more than started on his journey. In fact he did not reach New York till the next
                        day. When he did, he went to a hotel and then at once to the banker's, to whose care
                        the despatch had been sent.
                    He obeyed the summons instantly. But it very greatly distressed him that the occasion for his
                        return had arisen. He had nothing to do in New York, and the occasion for his going thither at
                        all had been only a pretended  necessity. He had gone solely for
                        the purpose of taking himself out of Phil's way, and leaving him a fair field with
                        Valorie. For if Phil Shenstone was one of two gentlemen of Virginia, Greg Tazewell was the
                        other. They were equally chivalric in soul and conduct, each equally resolute to do his duty
                        regardless of his own desires and of consequences to himself. As Phil, confidently believing
                        that his friend had won favor in Valorie's eyes, had betaken himself to the West, in
                        order to leave Greg free to win the woman they both loved, so now Greg Tazewell, equally
                        convinced that Phil Shenstone needed only to woo in order to win, had gone to the North to take
                        himself out of the way of the wooing. In both cases the man making the sacrifice of self upon
                        the altar of honor was additionally moved to the course he took by a natural desire to spare
                        himself the pain of witnessing a happiness that involved himself in distress. Just as Phil
                        Shenstone would have remained at the West with this intent, but for the peremptory summons home
                        for Valorie's defense, so Greg Tazewell would at this time have gone abroad  upon a pretence of scientific study, but for Colonel
                        Shenstone's need of him.
                    Thus do men of sensitive minds play at cross purposes when they happen to be loyal friends and in
                        love with the same woman. These things constitute a part of the Human Comedy, but it sometimes
                        happens that they convert the comedy into the saddest of tragedies for the woman in the
                    case.
                
                
                
                    XXVIII
                    
                        F
                        OR the first few miles of the journey Valorie had a broad, smooth, turnpike
                        road to travel over, and as Colonel Shenstone's horses were always good and in good
                        condition, her continual urging induced the driver to remain awake and make rapid progress. Then
                        came the country roads, sometimes good in parts, in summer, but inexpressibly bad everywhere at
                        this time of year, with long stretches of mire so deep that even the stout horses found it
                        difficult to achieve more than a snail's pace. While passing over those spaces the
                        driver must remain awake, or the horses, for want of urging, would have stopped entirely.
                    Just as the carriage came to the end of a long stretch of saturated and glutinous red clay road,
                        and began the ascent of a hill, Valorie was startled by the appearance of Phil  Shenstone, on horseback, at the side of the vehicle. His high
                        boots were red with mud, as if he had been walking, and his clothing, and even his face, were
                        blotched with soil.
                    Her exclamation and his were in effect the same "What are you doing here?" Phil
                        was the first to answer.
                    "The wretched train broke down a few miles out of town," he said, "and
                        after waiting half an hour, seeing no prospect of its speedy repair, I walked a mile or so to a
                        plantation, secured a good horse and set out to ride the rest of the way. Seeing the Woodlands
                        carriage ahead of me, I recognized it in spite of its envelopment in mud, and hurried on to
                        catch up with it. I didn't expect to find you in it though. If you'll shut
                        your eyes a little and try to think of my bedraggled person as that of a gallant outrider,
                        devoted to your service, I'll accompany you the rest of the way."
                    "Please don't jest, Mr. Phil! Uncle Butler is very ill again and Dr. Tazewell
                        isn't here and I can't think what may happen. I've telegraphed for
                        Dr. Tazewell, telling him to come  home quick. How soon do you
                        think he can get here?"
                    "When did you telegraph?"
                    "This afternoon just before I started."
                    "He won't be in New York," Phil said, reflectively, "till
                        some time to-morrow. If he starts back at once and of course he will he should be here by day
                        after to-morrow."
                    "I didn't think of that. How terrible it is to wait so long for him. But you
                        mustn't stay here talking to me, please. Ride on as fast as you can. Uncle Butler needs
                            somebody with him, even if Dr. Tazewell isn't at hand."
                    Phil put spurs to his horse, meditating upon her last speech, to which he attached a special
                        significance. The emphasis she had put upon the word "somebody," meant that
                        she regarded his presence as a very inadequate substitute for that of Greg Tazewell.
                    "And so it is," he thought, "so far as ministry to my uncle in his
                        illness is concerned. But is that all she meant?"
                    With that he again urged his horse forward, impatient to be at Woodlands where he might  find other occupation for his mind than brooding over these
                        things to no purpose.
                    "After all," he reminded himself, "what does it matter? If I were in
                        any uncertainty it might be worth my while to speculate upon the niceties of meaning that her
                        words may carry. As I am not in any uncertainty, I must regard myself as a sublimated idiot in
                        doing anything of the kind. I won't do it again."
                    The winter sunset had already fallen when he dismounted at Woodlands. Throwing his rein to a
                        negro boy and bidding him take the horse to the stables, he hurried into the house in anxiety as
                        to his uncle's condition. He found the old gentleman tossing about on a lounge, and
                        immediately ordered him to bed, where one in his condition belonged.
                    "You're covered with mud," said Colonel Shenstone as he submitted
                        himself to be undressed by his body servant. "You must have come on
                        horseback?"
                    "I did for the greater part of the way. The train broke down. But you musn't
                        bother to talk now, Uncle Butler. You must get to bed."
                    
                    "Then you didn't bring my Little Minx with you. I'm very
                        sorry."
                    "She will be here within half an hour. She is coming in the carriage, you know, and the
                        roads are very heavy. I passed her a mile or so away."
                    This news brought a light into the old gentleman's face, and without further questions
                        he permitted Phil to help him into bed. But there was still something on his mind, for as Phil
                        turned to the fire to dry his boots, he called to him:
                    "Wait a moment, Phil. There's something else. Those rascals will take pains to
                        know that Val has come home, and they may try to kidnap her under some form of law, I
                        don't know what. My head isn't clear and the pain is so great. You must look
                        out for her Phil, and not let them come near the house."
                    "Rest easy, Uncle. I'll look out for that, and you may go to sleep in perfect
                        confidence that nobody shall approach this house during your illness without my knowledge and
                        consent. There's the carriage with Val."
                    He hurried out to assist her to alight but she  had not waited for
                        him. She had herself opened the carriage door, sprung out of the vehicle and nimbly covered the
                        ground that lay between the landing and the porch, where she met Phil on his way out.
                    "How is Uncle Butler?" she asked, but without waiting to hear his answer, she
                        hurried to the old gentleman's room to see for herself.
                    She found him distinctly better than he had been half an hour before, because of the comfort of
                        her coming. But she wanted the fullest possible information and sought it by questioning while
                        she was throwing open her wraps and removing her bonnet, for in those old days even the youngest
                        women wore bonnets and were exceedingly pretty in them, too. Those old daguerreotypes which
                        suggest the contrary are bearers of false witness.
                    "But you must be very tired, Little Minx, and you can't have had your
                        dinner," said he, in tender concern for her.
                    "I was very tired, but I'm rested now that I'm with you and find you
                        so much better than I feared. Are you sleepy, Uncle Butler?"
                    
                    "No, my dear. I've slept off and on all day."
                    Then, if I may, I'm going to have my little dinner right here in your room. May
                        I?"
                    His look of gratification was answer enough, as she turned to give orders to a servant.
                    "I'll run upstairs and get myself into an easy gown of some sort, Uncle, but
                        I'll be back in a minute."
                    "God bless the Little Minx!" he murmured as she left the room. When her dinner
                        was brought in, the two fell into a quiet, soothing talk which lasted for more than an hour in a
                        lazy, desultory, and comfortable fashion.
                    In the meanwhile Phil Shenstone made preparations for the defense he had promised. He armed three
                        young negro men with shotguns, and stationing them in commanding positions, ordered them to see
                        to it that nobody not a friend of the family, known to them as such, should be permitted upon
                        any pretext whatsoever to approach the house until he should himself be notified. He had the
                        utmost confidence in the execution of his instructions to the letter. He had been brought up in
                        the plantation life.
                    
                    He knew the loyalty of the negroes to their master; he knew their lifelong habit of obeying
                        orders, as the soldier does, without questioning them and without a thought of personal
                        responsibility for the consequences of obedience.
                    "I suppose it's a high-handed proceeding," he said to Valorie when she
                        left her uncle asleep and joined him in the hall. "It might make trouble, in case a
                        sheriff's deputy should come to serve papers. I think I've heard something
                        about the enormity of the offense involved in resisting an officer of the law in the execution
                        of his duty, but "
                    "Oh, Mr. Phil, please don't get yourself arrested!" pleaded the girl
                        with much concern in her voice, a fact which Phil observed with a little quickening of the
                        pulse. "Please don't take any risk like that."
                    "Nobody is likely to arrest me while those boys are on guard," he replied
                        smiling. "Besides, a man's house is his castle, you know, and he has a right
                        to defend it against all intruders. At any rate I've undertaken the task of excluding
                        all strangers from this house, and  of course I'll do it,
                        if only in order that Uncle Butler may sleep peacefully and get well."
                    "You really do think he'll get well, don't you, Mr. Phil?"
                        eagerly asked the girl with her hands pleadingly upon his arm. She had thus easily and quickly
                        transferred her solicitude from the younger man to the older one, and the completeness of the
                        transfer seemed to Phil Shenstone chasteningly significant.
                
                
                
                    XXIX
                    
                        V
                        ALORIE slept that night upon an improvised couch in a room adjoining Colonel
                        Shenstone's, while his body servant watched by his bedside, with orders to wake her
                        instantly if necessity should arise.
                    When morning came the sick man was neither better nor worse, but to Phil's suggestion
                        that they should send for some neighboring physician, Valorie opposed an entreaty.
                    "I don't think we need do that," she replied. "Dr. Tazewell
                        will surely be here by to-morrow night, and you know he's the only doctor round here
                        who knows how to treat such a case. I know all the little palliative things he would order done
                        if he were here. I can keep Uncle Butler fairly comfortable till he comes, and I don't
                        want any other doctor to meddle with the case. Still, of course, it is for you to
                        decide."
                    
                    "It shall be as you wish," he answered, "and perhaps you are
                        right."
                    His mind was upon this new manifestation of Valorie's attitude toward Greg Tazewell.
                        "She well nigh worships him," he said to himself. "And that is as it
                        should be, under the circumstances." But he did not formulate the circumstances to
                        which his thought referred.
                    During that afternoon a messenger from the railway station brought a telegram from Greg Tazewell
                        to Valorie.
                    "Starting at once," it read; "if I make all connections should arrive
                        at six o'clock to-morrow evening."
                    "It's hard to wait so long," said Valorie; "but
                        there's no help for it. Uncle seems a little better to-day, and anyhow, Dr. Tazewell
                        will be here by six or seven o'clock to-morrow evening. Please send a strong, fast
                        horse to meet the train, Mr. Phil."
                    "If I make all connections," the dispatch said. In that primitive time the
                        phrase covered a good deal of uncertainty. Railroading was in its infancy then, or at best in
                        its early  childhood, and travel was beset by uncertainty. Tracks
                        were ill built. Rails were simply spiked down to ties that lay more or less loosely on the
                        earthen roadbed. The iron rails were in no way fastened together at the ends, and in many cases
                        they were badly laminated. Engines were feeble and of imperfect construction. Axles were so
                        badly made that "hot-boxes" were of frequent occurrence, causing much delay.
                        As each railroad was operated separately and with very little reference to others, one or more
                        missed connections were to be expected in the case of every journey like that from New York to
                        Richmond, involving as it did eight or nine changes of cars or boats.
                    Knowing these conditions far better than Valorie did, Phil was less confident than she of
                        Greg's arrival on the appointed evening. Still he hoped. He sent a servant with a horse
                        to meet the six o'clock train, directing him, if Greg should not arrive at the expected
                        time, to wait until he did come.
                    The day of waiting was a tedious one to Phil. Valorie ministered to Colonel Shenstone's
                             needs, and was almost all the time in his chamber, so that
                        the young man had not the relief of her company. During the morning there came a special
                        messenger from Mrs. Albemarle, bearing a note of inquiry to Valorie, who, in her preoccupation
                        with nursing, asked Phil to answer it in her stead. By way of killing time he wrote at almost
                        inexcusable length. After that he had nothing to do but walk restlessly about like a perturbed
                        spirit until late in the afternoon, when Edna Spottswood arrived to make inquiries concerning
                        the invalid. After a brief interview Valorie, pleading the necessity of her return to the sick
                        room, turned the visitor over to Phil, as she had done with the note.
                    This was a welcome circumstance, for Phil Shenstone had conceived a very pronounced liking for
                        Edna Spottswood.
                    As he had not seen her for many months past, there was much for the two to talk about and they
                        made the most of it. But in the course of their conversation the young woman told him some
                        things that not only distressed him, but filled him with self-reproach.
                    
                    The Mattapony plantation was one of those over which Colonel Shenstone had a certain supervision
                        as counsel, but still more as a friend of the family. It was a fine estate, now fallen into
                        difficulties. Its late owner, Edna Spottswood's father, had managed the cultivation of
                        its fields fairly well, but, after the manner of his predecessors, he had maintained a scale of
                        living which its revenues could ill support. Generous, open handed, hospitable, and imbued with
                        an unconquerable optimism, he had year by year added to the large hereditary debt, until at his
                        death Colonel Shenstone found the plantation too heavily encumbered to be easily relieved. Added
                        to this was the fact that with only two women to manage it, the place yielded less than before,
                        so that its difficulties increased.
                    When Colenel Shenstone, during the preceding autumn, had sought to equip Phil with the
                        information necessary to enable him to act as the old gentleman's substitute in the
                        management of the estates in his charge, his chief purpose had been to bring the young
                        man's business  sagacity to bear upon the Mattapony
                        problem.
                    When Edna explained to him how matters with her mother and herself had gone from bad to worse
                        during his absence, he reproached himself for having remained away so long. But neither idle
                        self-reproach nor idle wishing was habitual with Phil Shenstone. It was his habit to make
                        himself master of the terms of every problem presented to him, and to bring all his energy and
                        all his sagacity to bear upon its solution.
                    "I will to-day go carefully over all the papers in my uncle's
                        possession," he said to the sorely distressed girl, "and to-morrow, if Greg
                        gets here to-night, I'll ride over to Mattapony and go through all the papers there.
                        Please have them ready for me. I'll try to find a way out, or make one." He
                        added the last phrase with a note of determination which increased the girl's
                        admiration for him very dangerously to herself.
                    For admiration, in a woman, for the person, the manners and the character of a young  man, if the young man is not in love with her, is the most
                        dangerous possible attitude of mind, just as compassionate pity for a young woman in distress,
                        is dangerous to the peace of mind of the man cherishing it.
                    In this case both these dangers were present, and the worst of it was that circumstances now
                        promised to compel a very close and frequent intercourse between the two persons concerned. Edna
                        was an altogether charming young woman with whom any right-minded young man might easily fall in
                        love, as many young men had already done to their sorrow and disappointment. Besides she had the
                        low, distinct, contralto voice which was one of the chief fascinations of Virginia women.
                    On the other hand, Phil Shenstone had high character, chivalric manners, a brilliant mind, a
                        pleasingly wide acquaintance with men and affairs, a shapely person and an unusually handsome
                        head. Besides, he was altogether the best dressed man, in an unpretentious way, who had ever
                        been seen in that part of Virginia. That is something that always counts for much in the eyes of
                        women.
                    
                    These were the conditions of the problem presented by the coming intimate and sympathetic
                        association of this young man and this young woman. Who could say what answer to it they were
                        likely to work out together?
                    Almost any observant Virginia dame would have made a confident conjecture. But human life and
                        human character are complex, and even the wisest of dames sometimes find themselves at fault in
                        prediction.
                
                
                
                    XXX
                    
                        I
                        T was not quite midnight when Greg Tazewell, six hours late, rode up to the
                        Woodlands door at a swinging gallop. Phil and Valorie were waiting for him. Phil welcomed his
                        coming with cordiality; Valorie with an enthusiastic delight which she made no effort to
                        conceal, and which Phil observed with feelings that he did not care to analyze.
                    The young doctor threw aside his hat, overcoat and gloves, and began at once to question the
                        other two as to the patient's condition. Having satisfied himself that there was no
                        immediate occasion for interference on his part, and learning that Colonel Shenstone was
                        sleeping, though uneasily, he seemed to dismiss all concern from his mind, in behalf of his own
                        needs.
                    "Can I have a bite to eat?" he asked, turning to Valorie;
                        "I've had no supper, and no  dinner worth
                        mentioning either, for that matter."
                    A fleeting shadow of annoyance passed over Valorie's face as she answered coldly:
                    "I supposed you'd be hungry, and I've already ordered some supper for
                        you. But won't you go in and see Uncle Butler first?"
                    "Not to-night. It isn't necessary, and it is better not to wake him. After
                        I've appeased the pangs of hunger by some slices of cold ham, I'll prepare a
                        quieting draught which you may give him if you find him very restless and wakeful at any time.
                        I'll see him in the morning."
                    This time Phil Shenstone happened to be looking at Valorie and saw another and more pronounced
                        look of annoyance appear for a brief moment in her countenance, as she mentally ejaculated:
                    "How brutally cold-blooded you are!"
                    But as the words were not spoken Phil could in no wise interpret the look and he thought it on
                        the whole unnecessary to do so.
                    When Tazewell's supper appeared and he sat down in the dining room to enjoy it, the  very relish with which the hungry man ate annoyed the girl, and
                        when, instead of making the invalid the subject of conversation, he indulged his laughing
                        propensity by giving a humorous account of his journey, she rose with dignity and said:
                    "If you will excuse me, I'll go to my patient. You may leave the soothing
                        draught with Sylvia, if you please, after you have finished your supper and before you go to
                        bed. Mr. Phil, you'll show Dr. Tazewell to his room, will you not? I
                        have duties in the sick room."
                    This time there was no doubt that Valorie was angry, or deeply offended, or at the very least
                        "vexed," to employ a favorite feminine term.
                    "Great Scott, what have I done?" exclaimed Greg, laying down his fork and
                        looking at Phil, in amazement. "She's in a fury with me, and I can't
                        guess why. Can you?"
                    "No. Her mood is one I have never seen in her before. Perhaps you've not done
                        anything, but omitted to do something. She's very tired, poor girl, and the strain of
                        waiting  for you has taxed her nerves sorely. I think we shall
                        find her in a calmer temper in the morning. At any rate there's nothing to be done
                        to-night. Fill a pipe."
                    Phil argued that this was merely one of those little manifestations of temper which often vex the
                        intercourse of plighted lovers, and as such, a thing of no consequence. Perhaps Valorie felt
                        that in his first eagerness for news of the patient, Greg had responded less cordially than he
                        ought to her glad greeting. "In any case," he thought, "it is none of
                        my business, and they'll patch it up the first time they are alone together."
                    As the two friends smoked, Tazewell asked:
                    "Have those people made any move in my absence?"
                    "None that we know of, though it has been a week now since that shyster was
                        here."
                    "Yes, I know. Perhaps he is gathering himself up for a spring. We must be prepared at
                        all points. There has been enough mischief done already."
                    "How do you mean?"
                    "Why in my opinion Colonel Shenstone's  present
                        attack is due in its severity at least to the anger that fellow aroused. By the way if they make
                        any move while the attack continues, we must carefully keep the fact from his knowledge, no
                        matter how imperative it may seem to tell him of it. Please bear that in mind, Phil. It is of
                        vital importance."
                    "I'll take care of that. But now, my dear fellow, you ought to go to bed.
                        You're worn out with your journey."
                    "Yes, and I must be fresh in the morning. Will you send some one to pour cold water over
                        me when you have me waked? Goodnight. You needn't climb the stairs. I know my way to my
                        room."
                    During his steamboating career, Phil Shenstone had used himself to sleeping at irregular hours.
                        The time of day or night when he slept or woke was a matter of indifference to him. Just now he
                        was not minded to sleep. His spirit was perturbed in many ways, and he had many perplexing
                        things to think of. He greatly longed to go away to the West again and plunge headlong into
                        affairs that  would leave him no time for thought of other than
                        external things. But his uncle's illness and Valorie's danger bound him to his
                        present surroundings. On his uncle's recovery he would still have Valorie's
                        story to relate for the old lawyer's guidance, and even when that should be done, he
                        must not leave Virginia while Edna Spottswood's affairs were in their present tangle.
                    Irritated by the restraints with which circumstances thus bound him, and still more by his
                        inability to cast off the bonds, it would have been torture to him to go to bed. It was still
                        late winter, according to the calendar, but the weather was softly warm and there was a late
                        rising moon. He refilled his pipe and strolled out into the house grounds for the sake of air
                        and exercise. When the pipe burned out he replenished it from the tobacco jar which he had
                        placed in the porch against such need. He had no matches, of course. It was not the custom in
                        those days for gentlemen to carry matches or to light their pipes otherwise than with a coal of
                        fire. In winter  the coals were plentiful in the open fireplaces
                        which were in every room. In summer there were sure to be little negro boys about who could be
                        sent to the kitchen a detached building always for the needed coal. Neither of these resources
                        was open to Phil in the small hours of the morning, but it was easy for him to stroll out to the
                        kitchen and help himself.
                    On one of these excursions he found Aunt Kizzie, the cook, awake and sitting up on her pallet.
                        She was one of many negroes who could never be persuaded to sleep in a bed. She and other
                        like-minded ones, preferred to doze before a partially dying fire, sitting in a chair or
                        stretched upon a quilt on the earthen floor, and waking now and then to smoke a pipe or to go
                        out and look at the stars to see what time it was. Their skill in telling time in that way was
                        so considerable that their opinions were more trustworthy than those of many of the clocks of
                        that period.
                    Aunt Kizzie was a privileged character, especially in the case of Phil Shenstone, to whom she
                        often said:
                    
                    "Why chile, I raised yo' father."
                    On this occasion she assailed Phil with a question:
                    "What's yo' a doin', Mas' Phil, prowlin'
                        roun' dis heah time o' night? Why ain't yo' in yo'
                        baid?"
                    "Well, why aren't you in yours, Aunt Kizzie?"
                    "Now look heah, chile, doan you go to be axin' me no questions. I asked
                        yo' what yo' is a-doin' prowlin' roun' dis time
                        o' night."
                    "I am smoking, Aunt Kizzie."
                    "Ain't I got no eyes?" she asked scornfully. "What for
                        yo' answer me like dat? Is yo' a thinkin' o' little Miss
                        Valorie?"
                    "I'm thinking of a good many things, Aunt Kizzie."
                    "Is Miss Valorie dun give yo' de sack?"
                    "No, Aunt Kizzie."
                    "Den why doan' you go to baid like a Christian?"
                    "Why don't you, Aunt Kizzie?"
                    "Mas' Phil, yo's de perplexin'est an' mos'
                        tormentin'est chile I eber raised. Git out o' heah, now,
                        an' let me git a nap; ef yo' don't 
                        I'll throw de skillet lids at yo' an' de skillets too. Do
                        yo' heah?"
                    Thus admonished and with a genuine regard for Aunt Kizzie's nap, Phil retired to the
                        porch, just as the darkness gave place to the dawn. His legs were a trifle weary with the
                        night-long strolling, so buttoning his coat against the chill of the early morning, he sat down
                        in one of the heavy oaken chairs with which the porch was furnished. Not long afterwards,
                        between the daylight and the sunrise, Valorie appeared.
                    "I have slept very little and very badly," she said by way of explanation.
                        "I feel the need of the open air. How good it smells. But what are you doing out here
                        at this hour, Mr. Phil?"
                    "That's what Aunt Kizzie asked me when I went to the kitchen to light my pipe a
                        while ago," he replied.
                    "Didn't you sleep well?"
                    "I haven't slept at all, Val. I haven't been in bed."
                    "Are you ill?" she asked with a note of  sincere
                        anxiety which was distinctly pleasing to Phil.
                    "Not at all. I was never better in my life. But I'm very irregular in my
                        sleeping habits, and when Greg went to bed I didn't feel like sleeping, so I came out
                        to enjoy the fine night. How did Uncle Butler sleep?"
                    "Thank you," she said, gratified to discover that Phil was not indifferent, as
                        she believed Greg Tazewell to be. "Thank you, fairly well, since I gave him the
                        soothing draught at four minutes after two."
                    Valorie had an unusual habit of exactitude in all her statements. If asked the time she would
                        give it not in round figures as most persons did at that time when neither clocks nor watches
                        could be depended upon for accuracy but exactly according to the clock. When laughed at for this
                        she would reply:
                    "It is just as easy to say 'sixteen minutes after' or
                        'seventeen minutes before' as to say fifteen in either case. I like to tell
                        the truth, that's all."
                    "He's sleeping very quietly now," she 
                        added, "and I hope Dr. Tazewell will find him in fair condition whenever he gets ready
                        to see him."
                    Phil observed the pause and the vexation in her tone, as she added that last phrase, but he found
                        it difficult to interpret her mood. It was apparent that she was displeased with Greg, but why
                        or to what extent, he could not make out.
                    "I sincerely hope so," he responded. "I'm sure Uncle Butler
                        is not nearly so ill as he was during the last attack not so ill by any means as I feared he
                        would be. But you'll get chilled standing here. Let's take a little walk.
                        There are some crocuses or daffodils already blooming out there by the walnut trees; I
                        couldn't make out which they are in the dim moonlight. Let's go and
                        see."
                
                
                
                    XXXI
                    
                        A
                        S they inspected the profusely blooming bed of new-born flowers, Phil
                        gathered a handful of them and presented them to his companion, saying gallantly:
                    "They are bright and golden. May your life be always like them, Val."
                    A moment passed before she could trust herself to speak. Then she said:
                    "Thank you, Mr. Phil, for the flowers and still more for the wish. I'll put
                        them in water and set them where Uncle Butler will see them when he wakes."
                    After a brief pause she said:
                    "Mr. Phil, there are some things I want to say to you. I wanted to say them when you
                        were leaving me in town, but well, you had to hurry, you know, to catch your train, and there
                        has been no opportunity since then.  Mr. Phil, I shall never leave
                        Uncle Butler so long as he lives. You have no idea how he depends upon me for his happiness. He
                        began to get better, you know, the moment I got back to Woodlands, and every time he wakes he
                        asks if I am there, for he doesn't see very well and I keep the room darkened. When I
                        say: 'Yes, Uncle, I'm here,' he takes my hand and caresses it and
                        says something so loving that it makes me very happy and sets me crying. He needs me all the
                        time. It isn't because of anything I do for him for anybody else could do all that but
                        just because he loves me and likes to have me with him."
                    "Yes, I know all that, Val, and I rejoice in it far more than I can tell you. He is the
                        best man in the world, I think, and you have brought a new light into his darkened life. You can
                        never do a better thing, Val, or one better worth while, no matter how long you may
                        live."
                    Forgetting for the moment the reserve she had of late felt it necessary to practice in her
                        intercourse with Phil, Valorie took his hand  and gently pressed
                        it in lieu of spoken answer to his words.
                    It was a critical moment for Phil Shenstone. But he remembered Greg Tazewell, and he remembered
                        his own obligation to acquit himself well as a loyal gentleman and friend. So conquering his
                        momentary impulse to declare his love, just as she, remembering herself, withdrew her hand from
                        his, he said:
                    "Go on, Val. You had something more to say to me."
                    "Yes," she answered. "Have those people done anything more?"
                    "Not yet. I suppose they are preparing some sort of surprise for us."
                    "They might as well spare themselves the trouble."
                    "How do you mean, Val?"
                    "Why I mean that no matter what they do, and no matter what any court may order, I will
                        never go to them, never, never, never! I know what they want or at least a part of it. I heard
                        about it in the convent. They want to put me on the stage to earn money for  them. They mean then to sell me to some rich man as his wife. Now let me tell you
                        that even if they should seize me by force, they would get no good out of it. I would never play
                        a note or dance a step for them. They might beat me, but it would make no difference. They might
                        put me in jail, and it would make no difference. They might torture me as some of the saints
                        were tortured, but it would make no difference. I may belong to them though I don't
                        know why or how but my fingers and toes are my own, and it is my fingers and toes they want. So
                        what is the use?"
                    The girl did not speak excitedly. Her voice was calm and level. There was no catching of the
                        breath, no smallest hurry in her enunciation, no suggestion of hysteria in her manner, but there
                        was a resolute determination there which must have been discouraging to her adversaries had they
                        heard her words. She went on:
                    "And I will not run away like a coward, either. I will not go North or to Europe to
                        escape them. I shall stay right here at Woodlands  to make Uncle
                        Butler happy until they attempt to seize me. Mr. Phil, I want you please to buy me a good
                        Colt's revolver for self-defense."
                    "You have no need of that," he answered. "Listen, Val!"
                    He took her hand and held it while he spoke.
                    "Those people will not resort to any form of violence. They know better. And if they did
                        am I not here, and isn't Greg at hand? We should meet violence with violence. But I
                        assure you they are not thinking of anything so desperate as that."
                    "Then why do you keep your negro sentinels on guard, Mr. Phil?"
                    "I ought to have told you about that, but I didn't think of your
                        misinterpreting it. They are there simply to prevent anybody from serving papers on Uncle Butler
                        by leaving them at his house while he is ill. When he gets well again the sentries will be
                        withdrawn. I supposed you understood that."
                    "No. I thought you feared somebody would seize me by force."
                    
                    "Nobody would think of such a thing, Val. It would mean a long term in State prison, to
                        say nothing of the chance of being shot in the attempt a chance which I should do my best to
                        convert into a certainty. No, there is no danger of that kind, and I don't think there
                        is much danger of any kind. I'm not a lawyer, of course, but I think I can say very
                        confidently that when those people serve papers as I suppose they will do, we can beat them in
                        the courts, particularly after I get a chance to give Uncle Butler all the facts."
                    "Thank you for telling me, Mr. Phil," she replied. Then after a pause,
                    "What if we couldn't beat them in the courts? What if it should be decided that
                        I belong to those people? Would the court compel me to go with them? I've told you they
                        should never get any good out of me, but should I be compelled to go with them?"
                    "Not for long," he answered resolutely.
                    "How 'not for long?' "
                    "Why I'd kidnap you again. You know I kidnapped you before, so I'm a
                        hardened criminal in that way. I'd do it again within 
                        twenty-four hours after they got you."
                    "Yes, I believe you would. Thank you. I'm happier now," she said.
                        "My mind is relieved."
                    "You have no doubt that I would do what I have said?" he asked.
                    "Doubt? No. You are brave and strong. and good; I could never doubt you in any way. But
                        I must go to Uncle Butler now. He'll be awake very soon if he isn't so
                        already. Mr. Phil?"
                    "What is it, Val?"
                    "Do you suppose Dr. Tazewell would mind very much if you had him waked
                        this early in the morning? I still believe in his skill and judgment, and I want him to see
                        Uncle Butler just as soon as he can be persuaded to do so."
                    Her way of putting the matter seemed to Phil a strange one, but he made no effort to guess its
                        meaning. In her present mood toward Greg Tazewell she was beyond his fathoming. Instead of
                        trying to interpret the speech, therefore, he answered it:
                    "I am sure he is as anxious to see his patient  as we are
                        to have him do so. I'll have him waked at once, and I'll have a servant pour
                        half a dozen buckets of cold water over him."
                    "What for?"
                    "To freshen him up. He asked me last night to do so. You may depend he'll have
                        all his wits about him after that. I think I'll try the same treatment myself, after
                        Greg sees Uncle Butler. It'll give me an appetite for breakfast."
                    As she glided into the house she paused upon the doorsill and turning to him, said:
                    "Thank you again for all, Mr. Phil. I think you are better than anybody."
                    
                    "Is it quite loyal of you to say that, Val giving me first place in your
                        esteem?"
                    "Oh, I except Uncle Butler, of course," She answered over her shoulder as she
                        retreated.
                    Again Phil was puzzled.
                    "I wonder how far she will carry her pique. I'm afraid there is trouble ahead
                        for Greg."
                
                
                
                    XXXII
                    
                        D
                        R. TAZEWELL found Colonel Shenstone in much better condition than he had
                        feared, and at the end of his examination he reported that recovery was already well begun.
                    "You had better keep your bed for a day or two more," he said to his patient.
                        "It isn't well to sit up too soon, but with the treatment I'm going
                        to give you, I hope to see you 'clothed and in your right mind' not many days
                        hence. I must warn you, however, to keep yourself in your right mind if you don't want
                        to come down again. You musn't fly into a passion again, as you did with that lawyer.
                        That is what bowled you over this time."
                    Instantly Valorie responded:
                    "Dr. Tazewell, you've no right to scold Uncle Butler and I beg that you will
                        not do  it again. He has a right to grow angry when he is insulted
                        as he was by that man."
                    "I sincerely beg pardon, Miss Page. I didn't mean to 'scold'
                        Colonel Shenstone. I only meant to warn him."
                    "Come here, Little Minx," said the old gentleman. "You
                        mustn't scold the doctor, or you'll make us think you are a little minx in the
                        dictionary sense. He is perfectly right, and I shall not allow myself to fly into a passion
                        again, now that I have you here to do all that for me. But now you must go to your room and go
                        regularly to bed for a good, long sleep. You're tired out, and I won't have it
                        so. You are to do as I tell you, or I'll fly into another passion and give the doctor a
                        new grip on me. Go to bed at once, and don't get up for six hours at the
                        least."
                    "I'll go, Uncle, as soon as the gentlemen have had their breakfast."
                    "Confound the gentlemen and their breakfast! Let them look out for themselves with the
                        help of the servants, as I had to do for more years than you have lived when I  hadn't my Little Minx to coddle and spoil me."
                    "But who'll make the coffee, Uncle?"
                    "I will," said Phil. "I'm an expert."
                    "Why, how did you learn to do that?"
                    "By watching a young lady do it a young lady whom I call Val. I confess I
                        wasn't specially concerned with the details of the process, but the accessories
                        interested me."
                    "The accessories? What do you mean?"
                    "Why the grace of the young lady, the plumpness of her elbows and all that, and besides
                        "
                    Valorie interrupted him, not caring to hear more.
                    "I'll go to bed at once, Uncle Butler. I can sleep sweetly now that the doctor
                        pronounces you so much better. I should have slept last night if he could have ressured me in
                        that way before he went to bed. Doctor, I beg your pardon if I spoke crossly a little while ago.
                        Perhaps I'm nervous, though that isn't ever a good excuse. Good morning,
                        Uncle. Adieu, gentlemen. I've given special orders  to
                        the cook to have your breakfast served early. I don't suppose she'll do
                        anything of the kind, but I've given the orders any how."
                    She was half way through the doorway as she spoke the last words, and a few seconds later she was
                        safe above stairs. Manifestly she had no mind to listen to any response Dr. Tazewell might feel
                        moved to make to her hurried apology, or to the vicious little stab she had given him in her
                        last speech.
                    "That's a flag of truce, at any rate," thought Phil.
                        "They'll make it up next time they meet."
                    But apparently Dr. Tazewell was beset by no great eagerness to have the meeting an early one for
                        while he and Phil were at breakfast, he announced his purpose to ride over to his own plantation
                        as soon as the meal should be over.
                    "I suppose my presence there is badly needed just now," he said in explanation.
                        "I've been absent for more than a week now yes, for nearly a fortnight, and
                        there's no knowing in what condition things are by this time. Colonel Shenstone needs
                        nothing now  but good nursing and the medicines I've left
                        for him. There is no need for me to see him again for a day or two, unless some unfavorable
                        symptom should show itself and I do not expect that. If it should happen, send for me at once,
                        Phil. Otherwise I'll devote a day or two to my own neglected affairs."
                    Beyond promising to do as requested, Phil said nothing. But mentally he reflected:
                    "So you think it is your turn to sulk do you? I don't envy you the penance
                        you'll have to do for that. But it isn't my affair."
                
                
                
                    XXXIII
                    
                        D
                        URING the three days in which Greg Tazewell did not think it necessary to
                        visit his patient Colonel Shenstone rapidly improved, but Valorie's temper, so far as
                        the doctor was concerned underwent no such change for the better.
                    The displeasure she had felt and manifested was due solely, as we know, to what she interpreted
                        as indifference on his part to Colonel Shenstone's case, and his failure to visit the
                        patient each day seemed to her to confirm and emphasize that indifference. She knew nothing of
                        Greg Tazewell's real motive in remaining away from Woodlands as long as his duty to his
                        patient would allow. How should she know that his absence was prompted by chivalric regard for
                        herself and an excessive loyalty to his friend Phil Shenstone? How should she know that Greg
                        Tazewell had not  yet conquered his love for her? Her rejection of
                        his suit had been kindly, considerate and very gentle, but it had been so firm and so positive
                        as to leave him no ground of hope in that direction. Was he not a strong, resolute man? Was it
                        not clearly his duty as well as his interest to put aside all thought of winning her and to
                        conquer a passion so manifestly hopeless? Firmly believing that he had done so, she could have
                        no inkling of the motives of his present conduct. She could only attribute his voluntary absence
                        from Colonel Shenstone's bedside to that indifference which she mistakenly believed he
                        had shown in his omission to examine his patient on the night of his arrival, and still more in
                        the lightness of his conversation at the supper table that night.
                    It was with a dignity that left little room for friendly cordiality, therefore, that she received
                        him when on the morning of the fourth day he rode over to Woodlands. So marked was her coldness
                        indeed that Phil Shenstone, in loyalty to his supposed obligations, was at pains to take himself
                        out of the way.
                    
                    "I must give them a chance to make it up," he reflected, and with that intent,
                        as soon as Greg had passed favorably upon his uncle's condition, he said to him:
                    "Greg, I have some important matters to attend to over at Mattapony. Indeed
                        I've been needed there for several days. Of course you'll remain for dinner at
                        Woodlands, and so, if you don't mind being left, I'll ride over there for an
                        hour or two."
                    Without waiting for Greg to offer the excuses that were near his lips, he sprang into the saddle
                        and rode rapidly away.
                    Greg's first feeling was one of annoyance, but upon reflection he was rather glad to
                        have this opportunity to "have it out" with Valorie. He was anxious to learn
                        precisely what his offense in her eyes had been, and to atone for it if possible. For a brief
                        moment the thought flitted through his mind that perhaps after all Valorie was not so far
                        different from other young women as he had supposed; that perhaps she had expected the
                        compliment of a second proposal. But he promptly dismissed the suggestion not only as unworthy
                        but as  absurdly unlikely, in view of the very positive way in
                        which she had entreated him not to return to that subject again. Moreover, nothing could be
                        clearer, he thought, than that she had given her heart to Phil Shenstone and that he was in
                        honor bound to recognize and respect an engagement of which he felt sure, although it had not
                        been announced or even hinted at in any way.
                    After Phil had gone Valorie joined Greg in the parlor, by way of doing her duty as hostess, and
                        still more for the purpose of receiving his instructions as nurse.
                    These were brief and simple, relating chiefly to diet, and when he had finished giving them, Greg
                        turned to her with an anxious face, saying:
                    "You are angry with me, Miss Valorie. Would you mind telling me why?"
                    "I am not angry with you; at least I don't think I am. I have been displeased,
                        and perhaps I have shown my displeasure more than I should. If So I beg you to forgive me,
                        remembering how anxious I have been about Uncle Butler."
                    
                    "I forgive you freely," he replied, "If there is anything to forgive,
                        which I do not admit, though I must own that you have made me suffer somewhat."
                    "I am sorry," she said, and after the briefest possible pause she added,
                        "for the occasion."
                    "Would you mind telling me what the occasion has been? What is it I have done to
                        displease you?"
                    "I supposed you understood," she answered with a touch of surprise.
                    "Indeed I do not, though I have tried hard to conjecture what it all meant. Tell me,
                        please."
                    "I thought you indifferent to Uncle Butler's suffering," she answered
                        frankly, adding: "and candidly I think so still."
                    "How can you have thought such a thing as that? And how can you think it now? Certainly
                        nothing could be further from the fact. There is no man living whom I reckon so dear a friend as
                        Colonel Shenstone, no man for whom I would do more or sacrifice more. Believe me I speak the
                        truth."
                    
                    "I believe that of course, because you say it. You are a gentleman and of course you
                        speak only the truth. I must have misconstrued your conduct."
                    "Very certainly you have. I cannot even imagine what conduct of mine you could have
                        construed to mean or to suggest indifference on my part to Colonel Shenstone's welfare
                        or comfort. Tell me please."
                    "I must, of course, though after what you have said, it seems an ungracious thing to
                        do."
                    "I'll overlook the seeming ungraciousness, if you'll only tell me and
                        give me an opportunity to explain."
                    "There have been several things," she said, as if recalling the occurrences,
                        one by one. "You responded as promptly as possible to my summons. I give you credit for
                        that or rather I should say I have given you credit for that from the first and all the
                        time."
                    "I deserve no credit for that. The response was as much to my own eager desire as to
                        your summons. I was far from my hotel when I received your despatch, and there was not time in
                        which to return there if I was  to catch the next train. In my
                        anxiety to reach Colonel Shenstone's bedside as soon as possible, I left New York
                        without returning to the hotel and without so much as a handbag."
                    "Thank you for that. But when you got here, you were in no hurry to go to his bedside.
                        You waited to eat and even to sleep first."
                    "And you attributed that to indifference?"
                    "What else could I think?"
                    "My dear Miss Valorie, I thought you understood. I had closely questioned you and Phil
                        about his condition; I had learned everything that could have significance; I knew that sleep
                        was his only immediate need, and you told me he was sleeping. In my judgment as a physician it
                        was altogether best for him that he should not be disturbed, but that sleep should be encouraged
                        by the draught I left with you, to be given if he should wake during the night. It was not
                        indifference but concern for his welfare that prompted me."
                    "Yes, I can see that now," she answered, "and perhaps I should have
                        seen it at the time but for the other things."
                    "What were they?"
                    
                    "Why it isn't easy to explain what I mean but while you were taking your
                        supper, you seemed to forget all about Uncle Butler's case; you talked lightly and
                        jestingly, and it hurt me. Perhaps I was over sensitive at the time, but I had been so
                        anxious!"
                    "You will believe me when I tell you that I talked as I did about other things solely
                        for your sake?"
                    "How so?"
                    "A physician, if he is at all wise, carries with him many remedies besides medicines.
                        After the strain of your anxiety for your uncle, and your eagerness for me to be here to attend
                        him, you were in a dangerously overwrought condition of nerves. I felt it necessary to reassure
                        you concerning Colonel Shenstone, and it was for that purpose that I talked lightly of other
                        subjects, avoiding all mention of his illness. I thought my manner would do more to reassure you
                        than any words of confidence I might speak. Can you not understand that and believe
                        it?"
                    "I understand it now, and of course I believe whatever you tell me. But I did not
                        understand  at the time, and when you left right after breakfast
                        next morning, and did not return for three days, I was sure of your indifference."
                    Here was the hardest point that Greg had been called upon to meet. In the very nature of the case
                        he could not tell her all of the truth, but at least he could truthfully say:
                    "I was entirely sure that Colonel Shenstone needed nothing but to continue the treatment
                        and regimen I had prescribed for him. Unless there should be some change for the worse and I
                        asked Phil to notify me in that case there was not the slightest occasion for me to see him
                        during the next three days. He was in good hands and getting well, and my own affairs badly
                        needed my attention."
                    "I have been very unjust to you, Dr. Tazewell," said the girl, taking his hand,
                        "and I sincerely ask you to forgive me."
                    "Don't let us talk of forgiveness. It was dull in me not to see how easily you
                        might misunderstand, especially in your over-wrought condition. I should have realized that. I
                        should have taken pains to explain to you.  The fault was all my
                        own. Let us be good friends again!"
                    "With all my heart. You can imagine that this conversation has been anything but
                        pleasant to me, especially in its beginning. But I'm glad to have had it. It has
                        relieved my mind, and acquitted you of an unjust accusation. We are the best of good friends
                        again, and I'm going to volunteer a promise: If ever again I find myself disposed to
                        accuse you, I'm going to tell you so, frankly. Then you can set me right if I am
                        wrong."
                    It was high time now for Valorie to go to her household duties, and she did so with a feeling of
                        gladness and relief that was very grateful to her spirit. As the day was fine, sunny and
                        spring-like, Greg betook himself to the porch, where with a pipe he found himself happier than
                        he had been for weeks past.
                    Once as Valorie crossed the hall he called to her, saying:
                    "It occurs to me that it might be an agreeable change for Colonel Shenstone if he came
                        out and sat with us at dinner to-day. Ask him, please. A little cheery companionship  will do him more good now than anything else, and as his chamber
                        is on this floor there are no stairs to tire him."
                    "Oh, thank you, very, very much. I'm sure Uncle Butler will be greatly pleased.
                        He told me this morning how weary he was of the confinement, and I've been wishing he
                        might come out for awhile, but I hardly dared ask it. I wonder if my wishing made you think of
                        it?"
                    "Perhaps so. I don't know. At any rate you see how true it is that a doctor
                        must carry around with him many remedies besides those in his saddle bags."
                
                
                
                    XXXIV
                    
                        W
                        HEN Phil Shenstone returned just before the four o'clock dinner, he
                        observed so great an amelioration of relations between Greg and Valorie that he confidently
                        expected to be informed of their engagement before nightfall. He had seen too much of human
                        conduct in the various relations of life not to know that when even a friendship has been
                        subjected to strain and then repaired it is pretty sure to become stronger than ever. Especially
                        he knew that a lover's tiff reconciled is apt to intensify the love that has existed
                        all the while.
                    He thought it possible that until now the relations of these two might have been undefined, but
                        he was confident that if such had been the case, the reconciliation which had so obviously taken
                        place must have brought definition with it.
                    
                    His reasoning was sound enough. His conclusions were wrong only because the reasoning was based
                        upon a mistaken assumption. Seeing no reason to doubt the correctness of that assumption he
                        rested confidently in his conclusions, and when the day and evening had passed away without
                        bringing the expected announcement, he was distinctly bewildered and even a trifle offended. It
                        seemed to him that his friendship for both persons concerned deserved more of confidence than
                        either of them had shown.
                    His uncle's presence at the table was gratifying, of course, as proof of his rapid
                        convalescence, and from the smiling cheerfulness with which the old gentleman joined in the
                        conversation, he argued that the facts of the situation had been communicated to him, as was of
                        course his due.
                    When he congratulated Colonel Shenstone upon his improvement, the elder man replied:
                    "Beyond the necessity of obeying Greg's orders as to diet and the like for a
                        few days more, I'm going to regard myself as a well man now, quite well enough, my dear
                        boy, to  hear the things you came all the way from the West to
                        tell me. When will you do it, Phil?"
                    "Whenever Dr. Tazewell permits," answered Phil, looking inquiringly at his
                        friend.
                    "Not quite yet," replied the man of science. "Not for two or three
                        days to come, Colonel Shenstone, and not even then if you are imprudent and bring on any renewal
                        of the trouble. We must go a little slow as yet. When dinner is over I'm going to ask
                        Miss Valorie to have you put to bed again. You are naturally very weak still, and must have
                        plenty of rest. I'll ride over day after to-morrow and have a look at you."
                        Then turning to Valorie he added: "It will not be necessary to see him to-morrow, and
                        really I have a good many things to do. You don't think "
                    "I think only that you know best in such a case, and I'm very sure you wish to
                        do what is best."
                    Observing the looks that passed between the two looks that suggested some special understanding
                        Phil thought it wise to change the subject.
                    
                    "What is the legal rate of interest in Virginia, Uncle? Can you tell me off hand and
                        without trouble?"
                    "Yes, certainly. Where no rate is specified, it is six per cent. By contract, a higher
                        rate, up to ten per cent. may be fixed."
                    "And all above that? "
                    "Is usury."
                    "And therefore illegal?"
                    "Worse than illegal. It works a forfeiture even of the principal of the debt."
                    "You mean that if a man takes a note or bond carrying more than ten per cent. interest,
                        he cannot collect any interest at all?"
                    "More than that. He cannot collect either interest or principal. He forfeits the whole
                        thing."
                    "Thank you. On a note carrying a lawful rate of interest, does the interest compound if
                        not paid annually?"
                    "Certainly not. Why all these questions, Phil?"
                    "Oh, I'm only arming myself for possible emergencies."
                    
                    "Why, you are not involved in debt, Phil, surely?"
                    "Not a red cent. I wish your health, Uncle Butler, was in as sound a condition as my
                        financial affairs are. But some other people are in trouble, and they are being robbed by
                        rascals. The game is an interesting one, and now that you've given me the information,
                        I propose to 'sit in' as they say at poker. You're pale, Uncle, and
                        you look tired. Don't you think you've sat up long enough?"
                    "I am a trifle tired, but I want to hear all about this."
                    "Not now, Colonel Shenstone," interrupted Greg. "Phil is right, and
                        you must go back to your bed at once."
                    "Yes, uncle," said Valorie, going to him and persuasively caressing his wan
                        cheeks, "you know you are to obey the doctor so that we may soon have you well
                        again."
                    "So you join forces with my enemies, do you, Little Minx? Well, I can't resist
                        your imperious will, and I'm strictly forbidden to grow angry, so there's
                        nothing for it but to  retreat in good order. But confound you,
                        you young jackanapeses, if I were well enough I'd prosecute you both for conspiracy
                        against an unoffending old man."
                    And with a look of affection at them all, he suffered his body servant to lead him back to his
                        chamber. Both the young men rose to perform that service in the negro man's stead, but
                        the old gentleman ordered them back to their places, playfully reminding them that it is very
                        ill-bred for a gentleman to quit the table so long as his hostess remains.
                    "Unless his tyrannical doctor compels the rudeness," he added, laughing a
                        little.
                
                
                
                    XXXV
                    
                        I
                        T was Greg Tazewell's purpose to return to his plantation soon after
                        dinner, but Phil asked him to remain until after supper, saying that he wished to consult him
                        concerning a business matter of pressing importance.
                    When the two were alone, Phil said:
                    "I want you to give me the address of the ablest lawyer in Richmond, if you know who he
                        is, Greg."
                    "I will certainly. But what's the matter?"
                    "Two very different things one concerning myself and the other concerning other people.
                        I shall at once retain the lawyer in both matters. You see how my uncle is failing, of course.
                        Now in both these matters he will want to act for me, but it won't do to let him engage
                        in laborious and perhaps exciting work, and I mean to forestall his insistence by having  my lawyer already retained. I can explain it by reminding him
                        that he was ill when the necessity arose and that I had no choice but to retain another
                        lawyer."
                    "Is it your purpose to tell me of the matters involved?"
                    "Yes, certainly. That is what I wanted you to remain for. In one way or another I may
                        want some assistance from you, and at any rate I shall want your advice now and then. The first
                        matter is that of Mrs. Spottswood's affairs. I've been going over her papers
                        and the confused jumble of memoranda which she calls her 'accounts,' and I
                        find that some rascals are swindling her shamefully. I mean to put a stop to it. That is why I
                        asked Uncle Butler the questions I did about rates of interest and the like. I find that even
                        her commission merchant has been compounding the ten per cent. interest on the unpaid debts of
                        the late Major Spottswood. I'll have a speedy reckoning with him. Worse still, on the
                        plea that he must have payments made on the debt to him he has persuaded Mrs. Spottswood to
                        borrow of the money lenders for that  purpose, giving her notes
                        for the amounts. As she didn't at all know how to do such business he offered to manage
                        it for her, and the rascal has made her sign notes bearing, under a disguise, twelve, and in one
                        case, as high as fifteen per cent. interest. To secure these, he induced her to give a deed of
                        trust on her plantation and if somebody hadn't intervened she would have been sold out
                        pretty soon."
                    "But why didn't Colonel Shenstone stop that?"
                    "He knew nothing about it. Until a few days before his first severe attack she did not
                        consult him except as to crops and the like. Then she merely asked him to look into her affairs
                        at his convenience, saying she feared she had managed them badly, and before he had time to do
                        so, he fell ill. After his recovery he mentioned the matter to me, evidently not regarding it as
                        pressing. So nobody knew the real condition of affairs till I went over there this morning. I
                        have a good many more details to consider still, but I've got at the worst, and
                        I'm going to put the thing into a lawyer's hands, secure a binding  power of attorney, so that no scruples of Mrs.
                        Spottswood's shall stand in the way, and instruct the lawyer to proceed for the
                        forfeiture of every dollar of debt made fraudulently or usuriously. In such a case the two words
                        mean the same thing."
                    "But who is the commission merchant?"
                    "Thank heaven he is not a Virginian. He's a New Yorker, a member of a Produce
                        Exchange firm up there, and heaven only knows what tricks he may have played in the sale of Mrs.
                        Spottswood's crops. I shall look into that, and I mean to drive the fellow out of
                        Richmond."
                    "Oh, of course."
                    "Now the other matter concerns Valorie's case, or rather it concerns me in
                        connection with that case. Those sharp practitioners have not been idle. I received a letter
                        from them this morning. There it is, read it aloud."
                    Greg took the missive, which was very formal, with the legend "in re
                        Lee vs. Shenstone" written in the upper left hand corner 
                        of the sheet. After the formal address, the letter went on thus:
                    "You are doubtless aware that we have been retained as counsel for Mrs. Eulalie Lee, and
                        instructed to institute such proceedings in the courts as may be necessary to secure her right
                        to the custody of her infant daughter, one Valorie Page, of whom, during her minority, she is
                        the natural guardian, or compensation for the loss of her services, which have a peculiar value
                        because of the child's special gifts and training.
                    "It is the uniform policy of our firm to seek the amicable settlement of such cases out
                        of court, and to that end, as you have doubtless been informed, we have already approached
                        Colonel Butler Shenstone, who, as we are informed and believe, has present custody of the child
                        and is detaining her from the control of her rightful guardian.
                    "In any ordinary case our next step would of course be to invoke the aid of the proper
                        courts for the enforcement of our client's rights. But there are certain special
                        circumstances  in this case which make us reluctant to do so.
                        Without entering into details, it is perhaps sufficient for us to say that the abduction of a
                        minor child is a crime at law both in Louisiana where the system known as the civil law obtains
                        and in Virginia where the common law prevails. Of that fact you may or may not be aware; but as
                        we understand that you are not a lawyer, you probably do not know the following facts:
                    "1. That the crime of abduction is an extraditable offense among the states of this
                        Union;
                    "2. That the offense is a continuous one, running so long as the abducted person is held
                        in custody either by the abductor or by any other person in his behalf or at his instigation;
                        and
                    "3. That where an abducted child is taken from the state in which the offense was
                        committed and carried into another state a charge of abduction will lie in either state.
                    "A prosecution for a criminal offense is so serious a matter, especially where the
                        person prosecuted is a man of high social position  and repute,
                        that we shrink from instituting proceedings of that nature, and we certainly do not intend to do
                        so, if the rights of our client can be even measurably secured without resort to measures so
                        extreme and so disagreeable. In our effort to accomplish a more peaceful adjustment, we ask you,
                        sir, to meet us half way. If you will appoint an early day for a meeting between yourself and
                        ourselves in our office, we are confident that an arrangement can be agreed upon for avoiding
                        those extremely disagreeable measures which, in the absence of some such adjustment, our duty to
                        our client would compel us to take. Awaiting your reply, etc."
                    "That's a threat," said Greg, handing the letter back to Phil;
                        "a carefully disguised threat, but still a threat."
                    "Of course it is. But it is also a 'bluff' and as such a confession of
                        weakness."
                    "I'm afraid I don't understand."
                    "Why, don't you see that all their palaver about reluctance to do disagreeable
                        things is a falsehood on the face of it? Those precious rascals are in no wise troubled by
                        scruples of  conscience or scruples of any other kind. A court
                        proceeding, if successful, would enable them to collect much larger fees than any compromise
                        could. They do not bring proceedings simply because they do not believe they could win in that
                        way. I was never so confident as I am now that they haven't a leg to stand on, and that
                        they know it. So they are trying to scare me, and I don't scare."
                    "Still they might give you some trouble."
                    "I'm prepared for that."
                    "What have you replied?"
                    "Nothing, as yet. I'll run into town tomorrow, retain my lawyer, and then write
                        referring these people to my counsel for their answer."
                    After a brief silence, Greg asked: "Did you kidnap the 'infant' as
                        they call her?"
                    "I suppose I did. I don't know just what constitutes kidnapping in the eyes of
                        the law. Anyhow they'll find a good deal of trouble to prove it. You see I never saw
                        Valorie until she came to me at the Exchange hotel in Richmond."
                    "How did you manage it then?"
                    
                    "I employed the creole woman, Nathalie, to get her and bring her to Richmond. She
                        managed it very cleverly. Indeed, I think she'd manage a military campaign as cleverly
                        as General Scott himself ever did. You see Nathalie was the nurse when Valorie was born, and had
                        charge of her until she was six or seven years old. Then Val was taken away, Nathalie
                        didn't know where. She was in fact put into the convent, and Nathalie, who was devoted
                        to the child, mourned her almost as one dead. She appealed to Norman Page, Val's
                        father, but he knew as little of his daughter's whereabouts as she did. He devoted a
                        year or two to the search without success. He was tricked into the belief that she had been
                        taken to France or Italy, and he went abroad to continue the search. It was not until he had
                        spent his last dollar that he gave it up, returned to America, and went to steamboating again.
                        As soon as he began to make money once more, he set Nathalie up in a little business of her own,
                        as a clever maker of 'robes et confections,' her sign said gowns and feminine
                        things generally,  you know. Less than a week before his death,
                        Nathalie notified him by letter that she had found Val in the convent. He was running the upper
                        rivers at the time, and he resigned his place, and hurried South, with me to help him. On the
                        way he died, but I promised him to rescue Val and remove her to some safe place in Virginia.
                        Never mind the details. You shall hear them all when I come to give Uncle Butler the facts, for
                        now that these people are threatening me I may need your help and so I want you present at my
                        conference with my uncle. Just now I see Valorie in the garden, superintending some early
                        planting. Suppose we join her. Don't tell her anything of all this. Together, and with
                        the aid of a good lawyer we can keep her out of that woman's clutches till she comes of
                        age or marries."
                    "Wait a moment, Phil," said Greg, anxiously. "I believe the law holds
                        a man responsible for anything which he gets some one else to do for him, just the same as if he
                        had done it himself. 'Qui facit per alium, facit per se,'
                        the law phrase runs."
                    
                    "Yes, well? What about it?"
                    "Why suppose those people tamper with Nathalie?"
                    "They can't. She'd go to a gibbet before she would tell anything that
                        might hurt Valorie."
                    "But suppose they put her on the witness stand "
                    "They can't."
                    "Why not?"
                    "Because a negro is not allowed to testify against a white person in Virginia."
                    "Is she a negro, then? I thought you called her a creole?"
                    "She's a creole with what our law calls 'a visible admixture of
                        African blood,' and she was born a slave. That's one ground of her gratitude
                        to Valorie's father that he set her free. Like a good many others of us Virginians, he
                        didn't much like the slavery system, and he was especially averse to the enslavement of
                        persons more nearly white than black. He insisted that people of mixed blood were fairly
                        entitled to be reckoned white or black, accordingly as white or black blood  predominated in their veins. But there is enough of the negro in Nathalie to
                        exclude her from the witness chair in this case. If there weren't they'd never
                        get anything out of her. Come on, Val sees us and is waiting for us."
                    He was on the point of saying "you" instead of "us," but he
                        did not.
                
                
                
                    XXXVI
                    
                        G
                        REG rode homeward as soon as supper was done, and the weather being still
                        comfortably warm, Phil and Valorie sat together in the porch for a time, he smoking and she
                        hugging herself to keep a voluminous nubia drawn around her shoulders as a protection against
                        any possible chill.
                    "Mr. Phil," she said, wistfully, "when you come to tell Uncle Butler
                        all the facts about me, you'll have to tell him about my father too, won't
                        you?"
                    "Yes, I suppose so," he answered, reflectively; "yes, certainly. He
                        will insist upon hearing every minute detail, and of course your father will come into the
                        story."
                    "Then may I be there, Mr. Phil? I want to hear about my father."
                    He thought a moment before replying. Then he said:
                    
                    "If you really wish it, Val, you shall be present, but I think perhaps you'd
                        better not. Some of the details might be painful to you."
                    "But you said my father was not a bad man."
                    "He was not. On the contrary he was as good a man as I ever knew. I didn't mean
                        that there was anything of that kind."
                    "Then please, I want to hear it all. None of the other things count with me."
                    "Very well," he said. "After all I do not see why anything I shall
                        have to tell need distress you. I thought at first they might, but upon reflection "
                    "Thank you, Mr. Phil. Please don't do any more reflecting. You might think of
                        something else and change your mind again, and I do so greatly want to hear the story."
                    "Very well. You shall. I'll not change my mind; I promise you."
                    "Thank you and good night, Mr. Phil." Phil sat in the porch for an hour or
                        more. He had a good many things to think of. First of all it occurred to him that it might be
                        better not to visit the lawyer in Richmond on  the next day. His
                        uncle might take it amiss if he should lay his facts before counsel without first consulting
                        him. The old gentleman was apt to be sensitive on such points, and his two attacks of illness
                        seemed to have sharpened his sensitiveness.
                    Then, too, Phil was not fully ready to consult the lawyer about the Spottswood affairs. There
                        were a good many more papers to go over and arrange for submission to him before he could
                        profitably do that. It would be better, he thought, for him to devote the next day to that task.
                        Besides, Edna Spottswood would have to help him in that, and she was a particularly agreeable
                        person to be with. It may have been that thought that decided him, or it may have been the more
                        practical reasons he had already given himself for not going to Richmond and for going to
                        Mattapony instead. However that may be, he ended his reflections with a decision to that effect.
                    "After all," he said to himself, "why should I hurry myself to answer
                        those rascals? They can't do anything till they serve some sort of papers upon me. On
                        the whole, I  think I won't answer them at all. Not being
                        a lawyer, I might commit myself in some way. I'll consider it 'their move
                        next,' as we say at draughts. I'm under no obligation to answer a threatening
                        letter that covers an implied accusation. But I must be prepared to meet their next move, if
                        they make one."
                    With that he rose and went to his room. There he prepared a brief letter, addressed to the lawyer
                        he meant to employ. In it he enclosed a substantial check, asking the lawyer to consider himself
                        retained in any and all cases that might arise affecting himself, or Valorie or Mrs. Spottswood.
                        Giving the missive into the hands of a servant, to be sent to the station postoffice in the
                        early morning, he took down his Ovid and read it for an hour "just to get the taste out
                        of my mouth," he said.
                    He had recovered almost too much of his Latin for that, however. He read it so easily now that
                        the task did not drive other thoughts from his mind. He chuckled now and then to think of the
                        vexation the lawyers who had written to him would feel at receiving no  answer. Then he wondered what they would do next. Then he thought of Edna
                        Spottswood, and of Valorie, and wondered why Greg Tazewell didn't settle the whole
                        trouble by marrying Valorie out of hand.
                    "Surely I gave him a plain enough hint today," he thought. Then he thought of
                        Valorie again, in troubled fashion, this time, and gradually forgot about everybody else even
                        about Ovid.
                    After awhile he was waked by the sputtering of his candle which had burned out while he slept
                        there on the lounge.
                    He had no other candle in the room, nor did he care for one. The weather had changed, and a
                        terrific thunder storm had broken. He was in a mood to enjoy it, sitting in the darkness at his
                        open window and watching for the successive lightning flashes. The wild tumult was in keeping
                        with his own spirit's perturbation.
                    In that hour he marked out a future course of life for himself. He would put Mrs.
                        Spottswood's affairs in order he didn't think of Edna now that he had dreamed
                        of  Valorie and he would bring Valorie's case to a final
                        issue of some sort. As soon as she should be safe from further danger of molestation, he would
                        take himself out of the quiet, Virginia life, where it was too easy to think of the things he
                        wished to forget. He would return to the West and with his own wealth, which was large, aided by
                        the practically limitless capital which such a master man of affairs as he can always command,
                        he would organize and bring to accomplishment those great schemes of transportation by land and
                        water which had long lain waiting in his mind for opportunity. Now that the country was again on
                        a sound financial basis, the opportunity had fully come. It needed only the man.
                    "And I am the man!" he said to himself, not vaingloriously but with confidence
                        firmly founded upon his knowledge of his own, thoroughly proved ability.
                    "In that way, I shall be able to forget perhaps."
                    Thus the storm within subsided, as that without had done.
                
                
                
                    XXXVII
                    
                        W
                        ITH his mind fully made up to follow the course of life on which he had
                        decided, Phil Shenstone was anxious to get away from Virginia as soon as possible. He did not
                        understand the reticence of Greg and Valorie concerning their engagement of which he had now no
                        doubt and it hurt him somewhat that they had not confided in him. But on the whole he was glad
                        to have it so, and he hoped it might remain so until after his final departure for the West. It
                        would spare him an embarrassment at least, for when he reflected upon the matter he was doubtful
                        of his ability to receive such an announcement at the hands of either, with a reasonably
                        controlled countenance.
                    In his haste to complete his work in Virginia, he devoted himself diligently next day  to the task that still remained to be done at Mattapony. Contrary
                        to his purpose of the morning, he remained to dinner there in order to complete the work that
                        day. In the early evening he returned to Woodlands bearing all the papers duly sorted, labeled
                        and catalogued, together with a sweeping power of attorney authorizing him to act for Mrs.
                        Spottswood on his own initiative.
                    On his return to Woodlands in time for the nine o'clock supper, he learned to his
                        disappointment, that by his absence he had missed seeing Mrs. Albemarle, who had driven out from
                        Richmond to see her former guardian and Valorie. She had had another purpose in view also. Now
                        that Colonel Shenstone's speedy recovery seemed assured, she wanted to appoint an early
                        date for the reception she meant to give to Valorie.
                    Incidentally her visit had done Colonel Shenstone a world of good.
                    "She kept him laughing half the time, and smiling all the time she was here,"
                        said Valorie, delighted. "You know how rippling and ceaseless her humor is, Mr. Phil.
                        Are  you very, very tired, Mr. Phil?" she asked with
                        concern, observing the weary look that shadowed his countenance.
                    "No not very tired, Val. I've worked pretty hard over papers all day, but I
                        reckon it is chiefly because I've been thinking and planning between whiles.
                        I'll tell you, Val. I've decided to go West just as soon as I can get
                        everything in good shape here and feel that you are safe from annoyance."
                    He was not looking at Valorie at the moment, and so he did not see the sudden pallor that
                        overspread her face as he said this, or the hot flushing of the cheeks that followed.
                    "I am planning a great enterprise. The West is increasing rapidly in population and
                        productiveness now, and very soon it must suffer for lack of adequate facilities for getting its
                        products to market. I'm going to provide the transportation needed. I can command all
                        the capital required. I'm going to organize a great steamboat and steamship company.
                        We'll build steamboats as fast as we can, and we'll set up lines of ships from
                        New Orleans to New York and to foreign countries. Perhaps  we
                        shall do something in railroads too. Pardon me. You're not interested in such things.
                        I've been 'talking shop' inexcusably. Has Greg been here
                        today?"
                    "No. You know he was not to come until tomorrow. I do hope he'll find Uncle
                        Butler well enough to hear what you have to tell him."
                    "So do I and I hope he, and the lawyer I'm going to consult, will soon discover
                        a way to put an end to all uncertainty in the matter, so that I may the sooner get away. I am
                        very anxious to do that. By the way, Val, please say nothing to anybody outside our own circle
                        here, about Nathalie's agency in getting you out of the convent and bringing you to
                        Virginia. It might get her into trouble."
                    "Get poor Nathalie into trouble? Why, how can it, Mr. Phil?"
                    The girl spoke anxiously.
                    "Oh, I don't know that it would, but it might."
                    "Mr. Phil," she said, very seriously. "You are keeping something back,
                        and you promised not to do that with me, you know."
                    
                    "Oh, it is nothing, except that those unscrupulous lawyers in Richmond are trying to
                        scare money out of us by threatening to prosecute me for kidnapping you, and as they
                        can't prove that charge they might decide to prosecute Nathalie, if they should find
                        out just what she did in the matter. Of course they know I would never let her suffer for what I
                        induced her to do for me, but they might try to get at me by threatening her. At present nobody
                        knows anything about that but you and me. If we say nothing those blackmailers will never hear
                        of it. I've told Greg about it of course, but he's as tight as a
                        drum."
                    "But Mr. Phil, I'm afraid you've got yourself into a deal of trouble
                        for my sake. What can they do to you?"
                    Her voice and manner betrayed so much of concern for him that under other circumstances than
                        those that he confidently believed to exist, something decisive would have happened. As it was
                        he addressed himself to the task of reassuring her.
                    "They can do nothing at all that need bother us, I think, Val."
                    
                    "But what if they should? Oh, I am so wretched!"
                    "I tell you they can't. They can't bring evidence enough to bear, even
                        to justify an indictment, much less to secure a conviction. And even if they should get me
                        indicted and convicted, my lawyer would appeal the case and carry it finally to the Supreme
                        Court of the United States. That would take from three to five years, and within less than three
                        years you'll be of age and completely out of danger."
                    "Mr. Phil, that is very unkind of you very unjust."
                    "What is, Val?"
                    "Why to suppose that I'm anxious about myself. It is for you, you,
                            you, that I'm scared!"
                    It was Valorie's emotional habit thus to repeat words with increasing emphasis when she
                        was greatly moved.
                    "Oh, don't worry on my account, Val. I assure you I'm completely
                        bullet proof in this matter. Why, I haven't even answered the threatening letter those
                        rascals sent me, and  I don't mean to. If they write
                        again, I shall refer them to my lawyer for an answer. I'm twiddling my fingers at
                        them."
                    In her anxiety for him the girl was quick to catch at his words and question them.
                    "Then you've engaged a lawyer?"
                    "Yes, one of the best in Virginia."
                    "Mr. Phil that means that you really are in danger. You're trying to mislead
                        me, and I don't like it."
                    "Indeed I am not, Val. I've retained a lawyer partly because I have need of him
                        in protecting Mrs. Spottswood's interests, and partly because I don't want to
                        have any dealings with such rascals as Stone & Maxey are. I don't like to have
                        anything to do with such people. If I did they'd pretty certainly insult me in some
                        way, and then I'd have to thrash them. I don't care to soil my hands in that
                        way."
                    Seeing that the girl was less perfectly reassured than he wished, he added:
                    "Listen, Val. I assure you on my word of honor that after going over every possibility
                        in my mind, I am thoroughly convinced that  those rascals are
                        powerless to do me any harm. They cannot even annoy me seriously. So you must dismiss your fears
                        on my account. They are utterly groundless."
                    "Now you are candid with me. I thought you weren't till you said that. I feel
                        better now, thank you."
                    Remembering her strange reticence concerning her attitude toward Greg Tazewell, he was strongly
                        tempted to reply that he wished she would be equally frank with him about every thing that
                        concerned herself closely, but feeling that that would be an unwarrantable intrusion upon her
                        reserve, he refrained.
                    Presently he excused himself upon the plea that he had important letters to write that night, and
                        went to his room, where he wasted half an hour puzzling over the question: "Why should
                        her concern for me be so great and so emotional?" But he made nothing out of it, and
                        was forced at last to content himself with the reflection that "it is useless for a man
                        to try to fathom the depths of a woman's thinking with the much too short lead line of
                        his thinking. No man ever yet  understood a woman, and no man ever
                        will."
                    Dismissing the matter he set to work on his letter to his lawyer, which was to accompany the
                        papers from Mattapony. He explained the situation briefly, and referred to the papers themselves
                        for details.
                    "My wish is," he continued, "that you shall at once take whatever
                        measures your judgment may approve for the protection of a helpless woman who has been
                        shamefully swindled. In any case of my own, of course, I should scorn to plead the usury law or
                        any other technicality for the defeat of a claim. Indeed, even when acting for another and very
                        helpless person I should not resort to technicalities to escape any just obligation. But in this
                        case there has been a persistent and deliberate swindle perpetrated against a defenseless
                        person. I have no hesitation, therefore, in asking you to use every means that the law permits
                        to secure justice. I desire you to employ every technicality you may find effective, and to
                        secure the forfeiture of every dollar of these claims that you find it possible to eliminate
                        from the sum total of the indebtedness.  I wish to show no mercy
                        to men who have put themselves beyond the pale of consideration. I cannot make too emphatic my
                        desire and purpose that there shall be no abating of insistence upon every right and every
                        privilege that the law secures to the lady whom these men have so greatly wronged. And this
                        applies to matters of the past as well as to those of the present and future. If, in going over
                        the papers you find ground for claiming the repayment to her of any moneys wrongfully taken from
                        her in the past, I desire you to institute the proceedings necessary to the accomplishment of
                        that purpose."
                    When the lawyer received this communication by the hand of the negro messenger who bore the
                        papers, his partner exclaimed:
                    "What a fighter he is!"
                    "Yes, in a good cause," answered the other, who personally knew Phil.
                        "You remember, don't you, the story of the way he interposed in Colonel
                        Shenstone's duel with Vance? I haven't heard of Vance's challenging
                        anybody since that time."
                    Mindful of the fact that lawyers file all  papers relating to each
                        case separately, Phil had put into another note what he had to say concerning his own affairs.
                        He wrote briefly:
                    "It is possible that the lawyers, Stone & Maxey may call upon you with reference
                        to matters relating to me. In that event please say that you must consult with me before
                        answering, and then notify me. Till then it is not necessary to trouble you with details, though
                        I shall probably visit you very soon anyhow and tell you of the case."
                    It was not until he had finished the writing of his letters and had rested himself by the
                        leisurely smoking of a pipe, that Phil, approaching the high dressing case found in every
                        Virginia bedroom of that time, discovered there a missive from Mrs. Albemarle. She had scribbled
                        it hastily during her visit, sealed it and given it to one of the housemaids with instructions
                        to place it where he now found it.
                    "You're a very ill-mannered young gentleman," it read, "to
                        have run away from Woodlands when you must have felt it in your bones that I was coming. Worse
                        still, instead  of returning to meet me at dinner you have waited
                        for me to go away. But then you never were very well-mannered.
                    "Now that your uncle is nearly well again, we shall expect to see something of you in
                        Richmond. Do you know you haven't called upon a soul since you returned to Virginia?
                        You did come to see me, but not till I sent for you, and I don't believe you'd
                        have come then if Valorie hadn't been with me. I'll expect to meet you at a
                        dozen houses soon. It doesn't do for a particularly eligible young man to confine his
                        visits to one or two young women. It sets people talking.
                    "Adieu till I see you, which must be soon, as the two charming girls who are staying
                        with me can't remain long."
                    To this there was a postscript: "Edna Spottswood is a dear girl, but there are others,
                        and, well, everyday visits are sometimes dangerous, especially to the girl."
                    Mrs. Albemarle usually had a purpose in writing even her lightest letters. She usually disguised
                        it by putting it into a postscript, as if it had been an afterthought.
                
                
                
                    XXXVIII
                    
                        P
                        HIL'S impatience for the long delayed conference with his uncle
                        rendered him so restless that he spent much of his time riding over the plantation, shooting
                        squirrels in the woods and repairing the threshing machine. He was especially apt thus to absent
                        himself from the house on those days when Greg Tazewell was expected to pass a morning there. He
                        tried fishing for silver perch in a distant mill pond, but found himself too impatient to enjoy
                        that sport, though ordinarily he was passionately fond of it.
                    Colonel Shenstone was still growing steadily stronger, but in his anxiety to avoid a relapse
                        Tazewell still withheld permission for the conference. Day after day passed, and on one of those
                        days Phil received a second letter from Stone & Maxey. Those gentlemen  seemed nettled at his neglect to reply and were disposed to be
                        pressing in their demand for an early answer. They reminded him that this was a matter which he
                        could not safely ignore, and suggested that unless he should respond to this their second
                        communication, they should feel themselves obliged "to adopt other means of attracting
                        his attention."
                    He wrote in reply saying: "I am quite unable to discover anything in either of your
                        letters to which I am under the slightest obligation to reply. As you seem of a different
                        opinion I must refer you to my attorney, Colonel Minor, the location of whose office you
                        doubtless know."
                    He enclosed the correspondence to his lawyer, promising to visit him very soon. Then he went to
                        Greg Tazewell, protesting that it was necessary for him to hold the conference with Colonel
                        Shenstone at the earliest possible moment, and Greg consented that it should take place on the
                        next day.
                    When the next day came Colonel Shenstone  was in a less favorable
                        condition than he had been.
                    "It isn't a relapse," Greg said. "His gout is not manifesting
                        itself again. It is only that he is aging rapidly. His arteries are hardening. His mind seems
                        clear enough, but he shrinks from using it. In brief he is getting to be an old man and from
                        that there is no recovery."
                    "Then you think we must postpone this thing?"
                    "No. On the contrary I think the sooner you have your talk with him the better. He is
                        eager for it, and we have promised him that it shall occur today. It would annoy and distress
                        him to postpone it, and besides there is no use. As I say, he is free from gout for the present
                        and free from pain, and he will never be less burdened than now with the incurable malady of old
                        age."
                    "Very well," said Phil. "But we won't say that sort of thing
                        to Val. It would distress her to no good purpose."
                    Accordingly it was arranged that as soon  as Colonel Shenstone
                        should be ready and Valorie so far freed from her household cares as to let her listen
                        uninterruptedly, the recital should begin.
                    Lest a too prolonged sitting up should overfatigue him, the little conference was held in his
                        chamber, where he might be easily transferred from his easy chair to the lounge or to his bed in
                        case of need. When all was ready Colonel Shenstone said:
                    "Now, Phil, you are to tell everything, even the minutest and most inconsequent details,
                        lest you leave out something of vital importance. You are not a lawyer and you cannot know what
                        is important and what is not."
                    "I will make the story complete," said Phil, spreading some papers before him.
                    What he related follows in some chapters of its own without the embarrassment of complex
                        quotation marks.
                
                
                
                    XXXIX
                    
                        I FIRST met Norman Page in New Orleans, during my first year on the river. He
                        was much older than I, but the fact that we were both Virginians and exiles drew us together. We
                        were both better educated than even the best of the steamboat men of that time. We both
                        cherished higher standards of morality and conduct than were common on the river in those days.
                        We soon became friends and he took me as his "cub," that is to say his pupil
                        in piloting. He was recognized as the best pilot in the service then. He knew the Ohio and the
                        Mississippi thoroughly, and he had navigated many of their tributaries. I could not have had a
                        better teacher. When at last I got my license, he and I generally managed to be on the same
                        steamboat.
                    I told him, little by little, all about myself,  and he, in the
                        same way, told me of his own life, which had been in some ways a troubled one.
                    He had married Val's mother some years before, and for a year they had been very happy.
                        Then Val was born and the mother died when the child was a week old.
                    Val's mother had a half sister, younger than herself, named Eulalie Dexter, and to her
                        care, as her only female relative, Norman Page committed his child. The nurse Nathalie had been
                        devoted to her mistress, Val's mother, and Page stipulated that she should continue to
                        be the baby's nurse. Nathalie was one of those unfortunates, common in New Orleans,
                        whose descent is almost altogether from white ancestry, but who are accounted negroes because of
                        a mere trace of negro blood. Her complexion was that of a clear skinned brunette just such a
                        complexion as one sees all about him in the most aristocratic Creole drawing rooms. She had the
                        hair, the features and the carriage of a white woman. The admixture of negro blood was
                        "visible" only in the porcelain tinted  whites
                        of her eyes and in the little moons at the roots of her finger nails, and even there the signs
                        of it were so slight that only an expert could have discovered them. For more than a dozen years
                        past she has been regarded as a white woman of the pure-blooded Creole race, and she is now
                        everywhere accepted as such. But she was a slave until Valorie's father purchased her
                        from the estate to which she belonged and set her free in recognition of her devotion to his
                        child.
                    At the time of his wife's death he established Eulalie Dexter in a comfortable house on
                        the Creole side of the town, provided her with servants and supplied her with the money needed
                        for the maintenance of the mnage.
                    Eulalie Dexter was a peculiar woman a woman of very dangerous type though Norman Page, with his
                        chivalric regard for women, did not suspect the fact. In person she was singularly attractive
                        tall, slender, long-necked and almost serpent-like in the graceful flexibility of her body. She
                        was a woman whom nobody could see in the street without seeking a second look, and she made  the most of her appearance by a really extraordinary art in the
                        fashioning and in the wearing of her clothes.
                    In intellect she was alert even brilliant and in manner she had a certain carefully cultivated
                        simplicity, or ingenuousness, resembling that of a childwhich added mightily to the fascination
                        she exercised over men and women alike.
                    As for character, she had none, except the veneer of proper conduct which she assumed for reasons
                        of prudence and for the sake of self advancement. Seemingly as innocent of guile as the veriest
                        child, she was in fact utterly unscrupulous in the prosecution of her purposes, whatever they
                        might be.
                    Norman Page had transferred to his child all the tender devotion he had felt for her mother. He
                        refused to engage in any service that did not have New Orleans for one of its termini, and when
                        in New Orleans he passed all his time observing Val's growth, teaching her to walk when
                        the time came, minutely and lovingly watching the development of her infantile mind. When she
                        was  old enough to understand them he told her stories and recited
                        jingles that delighted her. Both the stories and the jingles were his own. He "made
                        them up" during the long night watches in the pilot house, happy in anticipation of the
                        delight the little girl would manifest when he should come to repeat them to her.
                    [At this point in his narrative Phil, who was observing Valorie closely, saw tears slipping out
                        between her eyelids. He took no outward notice of the fact, but by way of sparing her, he
                        hurried on to other things.]
                    Norman Page was never a rich man. He was too generous for that. He stood always ready to open his
                        purse in aid of anybody who was "down on his luck," and especially he was
                        lavish in his generosity toward steamboat men in distress, however humble their rank among
                        steamboat men might be, and however obviously their misfortunes might be due to their own fault.
                        From captains to roustabouts he was always ready to come to their rescue when misfortune befell.
                        But he made money easily, and having no bad habits,  he had
                        accumulated a modest competence, when Eulalie Dexter decided to make herself his wife. She
                        exercised a certain fascination over him, as she did over all who came into contact with her,
                        but he had loved Val's mother far too devotedly ever to love any other woman. He
                        resisted this woman's wiles so successfully that she found it necessary to resort to
                        other methods. She ceased to smile. She put aside all her gayety. She assumed the demeanor of
                        one in distress and perplexity. The change in her was so marked that Page, with his always ready
                        sympathy, sought to find out its cause in the hope of alleviating her sorrow, whatever its
                        nature might be. At first she pretended to resist his entreaties to know what was the matter,
                        but one day, when his inquiries were especially sympathetic, she burst into tears for she seems
                        to have been a consummate actor and said to him:
                    "It isn't your fault. Norman or at any rate you have not intended what you have
                        done. But your being here at my house so much spending all the daylight hours here  whenever you are in New Orleans, and usually staying till
                        Valorie's bed time all this has made people talk until now everybody shuns
                        me."
                    So she went on, weeping and elaborating her account of her sufferings, until Page's
                        chivalry could not fail to come to the rescue. She knew how to make herself agreeable as well as
                        fascinating, and having failed to fascinate him, she had taken pains to make herself agreeable
                        to him. Why should he not atone for the grievous wrong he had unconsciously done her, by making
                        her his wife?
                    With scarcely a moment's thought he proposed that course to her, and she accepted it.
                    For a time the two got on very well together. Eulalie took care that it should be so, until,
                        little by little, she had induced him to transfer most of his property to her. "It is
                        only that Valorie and I may be provided for in case anything should happen," she
                        explained, "and you know steamboating is a hazardous business."
                    When Valorie was about six or seven years old, that was before I knew Norman Page  he accepted an offer to go as chief pilot on a slow, freight
                        steamer, carrying a cargo of cotton and molasses to Pittsburg. There were very few pilots who
                        knew both the Mississippi and the Ohio throughout its entire length, and by way of avoiding the
                        necessity of changing their chief pilot several times on the voyage, the owners of the boat
                        offered Page unusually high wages to take their boat up and back. The voyage, including the time
                        consumed in discharging cargo at Pittsburg and taking on a new one there and at Cincinnati,
                        Louisville and other points, promised to occupy a couple of months, for the boat was very slow
                        and dangerously overloaded. Valorie wept bitterly when she learned that he was likely to be away
                        for so long, but he bade her be of good cheer, gently released his head from her encircling
                        arms, and hurried away.
                    He never saw her afterwards.
                    On his return to New Orleans he hurried to his home and found it occupied by strangers who soon
                        convinced him that they had bought it for less than half its value from his wife.
                    He was bewildered. Letters from Eulalie  had reached him at various
                        points the latest one of them at Vicksburg, less than two days before. In none of these had she
                        given the least intimation of her intention to sell the house, yet upon inquiry he learned that
                        she had actually sold it within the first week of his absence, and further inquiry revealed the
                        fact that about the same time she had sold all her other property at a like sacrifice.
                    He could in nowise understand, and he was especially puzzled to explain the receipt of the series
                        of letters from her, most of them dated and postmarked after the time of her apparent flight. I
                        may as well explain that he afterwards discovered the secret of that. She had carefully prepared
                        the series of letters before her disappearance, dating them at intervals in the future; she had
                        left them with a person who was employed to post each of them on the date it bore, and she had
                        eloped with an opera tenor who left his wife penniless in New Orleans.
                    But before inquiring into such details, Page had devoted himself with almost insane eagerness to
                        the discovery of Val's whereabouts.  To that end he first
                        sought for Nathalie in every place where he thought her likely to be, but with no result. He
                        could not believe that she, too, had betrayed him, but he had little to guide him in his search
                        for her, until the thought entered his mind that the faithful nurse might be hunting for him
                        while he was searching for her. Very naturally she would go to the steamboat from which he had
                        landed, as soon as she should learn of its return. Convinced of this he hurried back to the
                        levee, and there, as he had hoped, he found Nathalie seated upon a corn sack within full view of
                        the gang plank of his boat. She had hurried to the boat, and had arrived just after he had gone
                        ashore. Sure that he would return to look for her there, she had remained, impatiently awaiting
                        him.
                    But now that he had found her she could give him little information, and none at all of the kind
                        he desired.
                    She told him that a few days after he had started up the river, Mrs. Page had sent her, Nathalie,
                        to deliver a note addressed to some one out near the steamboat landing on Lake  Pontchartrain. She had bidden her take a fly and not to return
                        until she should find the person intended and deliver the note, the address upon which was
                        vague. Nathalie had spent the whole afternoon in a vain search, and at last she had returned to
                        town. Upon reaching the house she found it closed and locked, and from that hour she had been
                        utterly unable to find trace of Valorie. She succeeded in learning that the woman had gone away
                        with the tenor, so she visited the man's abandoned wife, but that unhappy woman could
                        give her no information except that her husband and Mrs. Page had taken ship for Havana, and had
                        taken no child with them.
                    When Nathalie had finished her story she said to her master: "If you blame me for this,
                        I'll jump into the river," and her tone showed clearly that she meant it. Page
                        reassured her, telling her that not the smallest blame was hers, and that she must not jump into
                        the river for the reason that he needed her help in finding the child. The two set about the
                        search and prosecuted it ceaselessly, but without result, except that a dressmaker who had  made many gowns for Eulalie told him his wife had said to her
                        that she was going to send the child to France or Italy to be educated and trained for the
                        stage. The woman added that Mrs. Page had said she was to give this information if any one
                        should inquire about the child.
                    [At this point Colonel Shenstone's weakness and weariness under the strain of prolonged
                        attention, was so apparent that Greg Tazewell insisted upon a suspension of the narrative until
                        the next day. The rest of the story, as related afterwards, follows in the succeeding
                    chapters.]
                
                
                
                    XL
                    
                        T
                        HE property which Page had given to his wife, and which she had now sold,
                        constituted the greater part of his possessions, but fortunately he had some money in bank and
                        he owned an interest in some steamboats. Converting everything into cash, he set out at once for
                        Europe, taking Nathalie with him to help him in his search there for his child. The loss of his
                        faithless wife would have given him little concern, if the child had been left to him, for
                        Eulalie had never won his affection in any marked way, and even his respect for her had been
                        seriously impaired by the more intimate acquaintance with her character which married life had
                        given him. Still I reckon it was just as well that he did not discover the tenor, Signor
                        Minghetti, whose real name was John Lee. The fellow had put such an affront  upon him as it was not in Norman Page's nature to endure if he could have
                        met the man.
                    Page spent a year or two in his search in France and Italy, and by the time his money was
                        exhausted, he was satisfied that he had been following a wrong scent. There was nothing for him
                        to do but return to America and set to work to repair his fortunes. With his first earnings he
                        established Nathalie in a little business of her own in Canal Street, bidding her regard herself
                        thereafter as a white person, a thing likely to be advantageous to her in business, as well as
                        otherwise. "Her taint," he said to me when telling me the story long
                        afterwards, "was so immeasurably small that it was a cruel wrong to recognize it as any
                        taint at all."
                    He had given up all hope of ever finding his child, but Nathalie's optimism was more
                        obstinate. Perhaps optimism was all that her trace of negro blood had given to her character. At
                        any rate she continued to hope that some day she should find the child to whom she had given a
                        love closely like that of a  mother. A year ago this month her
                        hope was fulfilled. By the merest accident she learned that the girl for whom she had sought
                        through the long years was in a convent school at some little distance from New Orleans. Fearing
                        that time and possibly an association with her runaway stepmother might so far have changed Val
                        as to render it wiser not to tell Page of her discovery, she decided, with her Creole
                        shrewdness, to make inquiries. Arraying herself in a costume befitting a well-to-do gentlewoman,
                        she visited the convent under a pretense of inquiring the terms for some young lady in whom she
                        assumed to be interested.
                    She was told that the rules of the establishment forbade the sisters to receive any pupils over
                        fifteen years of age, or to keep any pupil after she should pass her fifteenth birthday. She was
                        disheartened at this, for she knew that Valorie was more than seventeen, and she argued that her
                        information as to Valorie's presence in the institution, must be erroneous. At that
                        moment she saw two girls walking among the trees of the closely walled grounds.  In spite of the years she recognized one of them as Valorie.
                        Turning to the sister she said:
                    "Surely that tall girl is more than fifteen."
                    "No," answered the nun. "We do not know her age exactly, but we are
                        assured by those who are her sponsors that she is only fourteen. Ours is a refuge even more than
                        it is a school, you know, and there are some cases "
                    "In which girls are fourteen for a long time," answered Nathalie, with a
                        carefully placative smile. "I see. Of course in such cases you are bound to believe
                        what you are told, and doubtless it is better so."
                    I must tell you that Nathalie is educated, as many of her class are in Louisiana, that her
                        manners are altogether those of a lady, and that she has a certain suave self possession that
                        would have made a capital actress of her had she been trained for the stage.
                    She could not ask to see Val without exciting suspicion, and she knew, too, that it was a
                        violation of the very necessary rules of the convent for any of the girls to receive  visitors. But upon pretense of interest in the beauty of the
                        sub-tropical gardens, she stood for a minute by an open window, remaining there till she caught
                        sight of Val again. Then she commented to the nun upon the beauty of "the
                        child," and the peculiar grace of her carriage. The nun replied with an appearance of
                        pleasure in the commendation, saying:
                    "She is carefully trained to that, and also in her music. We employ special masters for
                        her she is to go on the stage. She is a very pleasing girl, and her mother, who has just
                        returned from abroad, thinks she will be a greatly successful actress. You should see her dance.
                        She is extraordinary."
                    Nathalie took her leave graciously and returning to the city, wrote and sent a dozen letters to
                        Norman Page, addressing them to the different cities on the river, and adding to his name, on
                        each of the envelopes, the legend, "pilot or captain of a steamboat," so that
                        each letter would be sent to the headquarters of the pilot's association in the city to
                        which it was addressed. Nathalie feared  that Eulalie, from whom
                        Page had long before secured a divorce, might remove Val from the school and take her away
                        somewhere before her father's arrival. Now that the woman had returned, something of
                        that kind was more than likely and she gave special emphasis to the danger in all her letters.
                    Page was running on the steamboat Highflyer at the time, plying between Louisville and St. Louis.
                        It was at St. Louis that he received one of Nathalie's letters. I happened to be there
                        at the time looking after one of my new steamboat lines. For the moment his mind refused to
                        grasp the truth. In a dazed way he handed the missive to me and I read it.
                    "This means," I said, "that you must go to New Orleans at once, and of
                        course I shall go with you. Fortunately the Bald Eagle is just ready to leave, and
                        she's one of the fastest boats on the river. Don't let her get away without
                        us. Shake yourself together, go on board of her and ask Captain Murdock to hold her till I come.
                        I'll go to the Highflyer and ask Captain Wright to get another pilot in  your place. Hurry, or the Eagle will get away before you get
                        there."
                    I remember almost the exact words I used, because I was really frightened by his dazed condition,
                        and wanted to rouse him by giving him something to do. He pulled himself together and hurried
                        away. Half an hour later I went aboard the Bald Eagle and she was immediately cast loose. Now
                        you're tired again, Uncle Butler, and must wait and rest before hearing more. There is
                        still a great deal to be told.
                
                
                
                    XLI
                    [It was after dinner when Phil went on with his narrative.]
                    
                        O
                        N the way down the river, Norman told me in detail of his fears and his
                        plans. Chiefly his fear was that his ex-wife, Eulalie Lee, might take Valorie and leave the
                        country or go into hiding with her before he could get to New Orleans. As for his plans, he
                        intended to place Val in the keeping of some proper person in Virginia, so that she might come
                        to womanhood under those influences which he regarded as best for girls in the formative period
                        of young womanhood. He had himself no near relatives here, and he had been so long absent from
                        the State that he knew no one whom he could ask to receive his daughter, so he appealed to me,
                        and I, confident of your approval, promised him that she should find a home at Woodlands.
                    
                    A little way below Memphis the Bald Eagle's boilers seven in all and all connected
                        contrary to law exploded, tearing the boat literally to pieces and scattering the fragments of
                        her upper works over the river for half a mile in every direction. Page and I were sitting on
                        the forward guards at the time, and both of us were hurled high in air. When I struck the water
                        I sank to so great a depth that although I had my wits about me I had great difficulty in
                        holding my breath long enough to reach the surface. My left arm and my left leg were slightly
                        scalded by the escaping steam, but otherwise I was uninjured. A moment after I got my first full
                        breath, I saw Page come to the surface, and seeing that he was unconscious and about to sink
                        again, I seized him and with some difficulty swam ashore with his half lifeless body. He had
                        inhaled water and was well nigh drowned. On reaching the shore, the people who had hurried from
                        the houses near by, soon relieved his lungs and we had him breathing again. But he was fearfully
                        scalded.
                    I had him removed to the nearest house and  summoned physicians
                        from Memphis, the two volunteer doctors who were present, having far more than they could do in
                        caring for the large number of wounded. Under some palliative treatment his suffering was so far
                        relieved by nightfall that his mind cleared and he could talk with me. But from the first there
                        was no hope of his recovery. When the doctors, while dressing my own trifling burns, assured me
                        of that, I, knowing how brave a man he was, and knowing, too, that he would have some
                        instructions to give me, frankly told him what the verdict of the physicians was.
                    He looked at me out of his brave, gentle eyes, and said, "Thank you, Phil, for telling
                        me. I'm sorry I shall not be able to see my little girl again. But you must look after
                        her, Phil. You must get her out of the convent. It won't be easy to do that, but
                        Nathalie will help. Get her out and take her to Virginia. Promise me, Phil."
                    I told him I would do as he wished at all costs and all hazards and it seemed to relieve his
                        mind. He could not talk connectedly.  His words came in gasps, as
                        if painfully forced out. The doctors explained that by telling me that some of the air passages
                        were scalded. Presently he said:
                    "All my money is in your hands, Phil, invested in your steamboat enterprises and paying
                        well. Keep it so for Valorie, till she comes of age. If I could write "
                    He grew silent for a long time. Then he said: "We are two gentlemen of
                            Virginia
                        we need no writing."
                    
                    Those were the last words he spoke and the phrase he used, "two gentlemen of
                        Virginia," has been a talisman with me ever since, a sufficient pledge of honor for me
                        to give or to receive in any dealing with a man of Norman Page's kind.
                    [At this point the lawyer instinct in Colonel Shenstone asserted itself. "Of course, you
                        took out letters of administration?"
                    "No," answered Phil. "It didn't occur to me as necessary. All
                        the property was already in my hands, by his own act, and I have so managed it as to double it
                        and more during the last year."
                    
                    "Very irregular!" exclaimed the old lawyer; "very irregular indeed!
                        But go on with your story, Phil." The young man proceeded.]
                    I buried my friend in a Memphis cemetery and ordered a temporary stone placed over his grave to
                        mark it. I have since erected a fitter monument to him. I had no time to lose then, but must
                        take the first boat for New Orleans.
                    There I went at once to see Nathalie. I found her a woman of unusual shrewdness, with a presence
                        and a manner altogether modest but attractive. She had been at pains to learn that Val was still
                        in the convent, but it was not easy to devise means by which to get her out. The ladies of the
                        convent had received their charge at Mrs. Eulalie Lee's hands, as her daughter, Valorie
                        Lee. They could not be expected to surrender her to anybody without Mrs. Lee's
                        authority. It was obviously useless to hope for that. The rules of the convent, like those of
                        all girls' schools, very properly forbade pupils to receive letters except through the
                        hands of those in authority.  It was, therefore, impossible to
                        communicate with Val in the ordinary way. Nathalie was confident, and so was I, that if she
                        could get a note to Val, telling her what to do, she would obey the instruction. But how to
                        accomplish that was a problem.
                    We thought of employing some negro woman to approach the servants in the school, but that would
                        be dangerous in many ways. At last Nathalie hit upon a plan. She had learned that most, if not
                        all the girls in the convent, were the daughters of actresses or other women who for one reason
                        or another could not keep their daughters with them. She had among her customers one woman of
                        the stage, who, as leading lady in a New Orleans stock company, did in fact live permanently in
                        the city, with her daughter, a bright, intelligent child of twelve. But her profession would
                        sufficiently account for a wish on her part to place the girl in the school. Nathalie believed
                        she could induce this lady to assist us. Her plan was to have the lady visit the school, inquire
                        terms and conditions of admission, and then ask the privilege of 
                        placing her daughter there for a few days or a week, to see if the child could be happy and
                        contented in the institution, before deciding to place her there permanently.
                        Nathalie's plan was, if she could gain the mother's consent, to take the girl
                        into the secret and entrust a letter to her for secret delivery to Val.
                    The mother was a good-natured, obliging sort of person, fond of Nathalie and always in her debt
                        for "creations" in the way of costly gowns and the like. Moreover she was
                        theatrical to her finger-tips, and the idea of playing a leading part in a little drama in real
                        life seemed to appeal strongly to her. As soon as the situation was explained to her she entered
                        heartily into the scheme.
                    I had some very pressing affairs to attend to up the river, so as soon as matters were in train,
                        I left Nathalie to execute her plan, instructing her to telegraph me as soon as she should get
                        possession of Val, and then to get out of Louisiana with her as soon as possible. In aid of that
                        I ordered one of my steamboat captains to lie at the levee, with steam partially up until
                        Nathalie should come on board with  her charge. He was then to
                        leave at once, landing the two at Memphis, whence Nathalie was to come immediately to Richmond
                        by the Memphis & Charleston railroad and its connections, and meet me at the Exchange
                        Hotel.
                    Nathalie managed the matter skilfully. She prepared a long letter to Val, telling her of her
                        stepmother's plans to sell her to the stage a thing that Val already knew and intensely
                        dreaded. She explained that she, Nathalie, acting with Val's best friends, meant to
                        rescue her and take her to live in Virginia. Nathalie remembered how Val had learned from her
                        father to think of Virginia as a promised land. She instructed Val to slip out of the convent
                        grounds in any way she could and on any day she could; that a carriage, with Nathalie in it,
                        would await her at a point designated, a short distance from the convent gates.
                    Nathalie patiently waited there in the carriage from ten till five every day for many days. Then
                        at last Val managed to slip out and join her. You know the rest of that story.
                    
                    Now Eulalie Lee, instigated I suppose by her tenor companion, though I know nothing about that,
                        is trying either to recover Val and exploit her, or to extort money from us. She must know that
                        she can't get Val, but she and her rascally lawyers think they may succeed in extorting
                        money. They tried the game with you first, Uncle Butler, and you seem to have frightened them
                        off. Now they are trying to scare money out of me. They have written to me twice, and if you
                        wish I'll read their letters.
                    [After reading the communications, Phil finished in few words.]
                    "I'm going to town to-morrow to explain the case to my lawyers. I think
                        they'll know how to put an end to the annoyance."
                
                
                
                    XLII
                    
                        W
                        HEN Phil had finished his story, Colonel Shenstone said to him:
                    "I have been greatly interested, Phil, and I have a general conviction that those
                        fellows can't seriously annoy you. But since this last illness I find it difficult to
                        grasp and remember all the details of such a case. I think you said you had engaged a
                        lawyer."
                    "Yes, I felt that in your weakened condition, Uncle, you ought not to be bothered, so I
                        have retained an attorney in Richmond. I hope you do not think "
                    "Oh, not at all. I'm glad of that. But you'd better see your counsel
                        to-morrow. I think I'll go to bed now. I've been up most of the day, and
                        I'm tired."
                    Valorie summoned his servant and herself made preliminary arrangements for her uncle's
                        comfort. As she did so she observed certain  manifestations of
                        weakness or something else on his part, which she had never seen before. Especially she observed
                        the uncertainty of his motions. He would miss objects which he attempted to touch with his
                        hands, and his hands trembled more than she had ever known them to do before. When he walked he
                        seemed about to fall and had to hurry, almost to run, in order to keep his feet under his
                        person.
                    "Sit down here, Uncle Butler," the girl said, gently forcing him into an easy
                        chair. "You are not to try to unbutton your collar or do anything else for yourself.
                        Henry will undress you. You're very tired. There! Now Henry has your slippers off, and
                        he'll do all the rest. I'll send Mr. Phil in here to superintend and to help
                        lift you into bed. He's so strong, you know, and so gentle."
                    The old man laid his hand upon hers, as if to detain her.
                    "You are a dear Little Minx," he said. "You won't go away,
                        will you, Little Minx?"
                    "No, Uncle Butler. I'll always be within call when you want me."
                    
                    "You won't go away with who is it? That woman, I mean?"
                    "Never, Uncle, never, never, never."
                    "Thank you. Good night Little Minx. You're so good to me!"
                    Valorie was too much alarmed for tears. She asked Phil to go to his uncle's assistance,
                        and then sought Greg Tazewell. Telling him what she had observed, she begged him to tell her
                        what it meant.
                    "Feebleness, mainly," he replied evasively.
                    "What else?" she demanded. "You are keeping something back."
                    "That is hardly a just charge," he answered. "If I reserved anything
                        it was only a fear, and not anything that I know."
                    "Tell me, please."
                    "It isn't easy to say just what I think, because there are uncertainties to be
                        allowed for. But Colonel Shenstone has aged very rapidly since last summer. He is in effect a
                        much older man than the number of his years would indicate. He is only seventy or seventy-one, I
                        believe, and a year ago he seemed  much younger even than that.
                        But his present physical condition is that of a much older man. I had already observed the
                        tendency you speak of, the involuntary impulse to run when he attempts to walk. That, taken in
                        connection with the tremor of his hands, indicates a condition which we call festination, or
                        hurrying."
                    "Is there nothing to be done for it?"
                    "No. It is a symptom of trouble with the blood circulation in the brain. The difficulty
                        he spoke of in the matter of grasping details and remembering them is another indication of the
                        same sort. There is no remedy either for these things or for the condition of which they are
                        merely symptoms. There is nothing to be done but watch him, keep him comfortable and have his
                        servant always by his side when he is on his feet. He might fall, you know. I've
                        already told Henry what he is to do in that respect. As Phil really must go to town in the
                        morning I think I'll ride over early and remain here during the day."
                    Valorie choked back the lump that had formed in her throat, and asked:
                    
                    "Dr. Tazewell, is Uncle Butler going to die? Is that what you mean?"
                    "No, Miss Valorie. I do not think he is going to die at present, probably not for a long
                        time to come. Indeed I expect presently to see him much better than he is now. But just now it
                        is desirable to watch him closely, to protect him against all excitement, and to keep his
                        surroundings as peaceful as possible. In the immediate present, too, there are possibilities to
                        be considered and to be prepared for. One of these is the possibility of a brain hemorrhage.
                        Should that happen as I sincerely hope it may not it would be necessary to have a strong man
                        present, other than the servants and more intelligent. Perhaps I am unduly cautious. But I think
                        I had better be here whenever Phil is not."
                    Valorie was deeply moved, and without another word she passed up the stairs, and Greg rode away.
                    It was after supper that Valorie met Phil Shenstone alone for the first time after the completion
                        of his narrative. With less of reserve than she had shown toward him at any  time since his return to Virginia, and indeed with a good deal of the old frank
                        cordiality, she said to him:
                    "Mr. Phil, you can't think how I thank you!"
                    "For what, Val?"
                    "For loving my father and honoring and defending his memory. You'd know what I
                        mean if you knew what that woman that vampire told me about him. Mr. Phil?"
                    "Yes, Valorie."
                    "Won't you tell me about the tombstone? I want to know what it is like, so that
                        I may picture it in my mind. Some day I'm going out there to see it for myself, and to
                        place some flowers on it. But describe it to me now, won't you?"
                    "Fortunately I can do better than that, Val. I have the architect's drawing of
                        it in one of my trunks. If you'll wait a little while I'll bring it to
                        you."
                    The girl clapped her hands in glee, as any ten-year-old child might have done, for joy and
                        sorrow, grief and gladness lay always  close together in her
                        strangely sincere and sympathetic soul.
                    "The child and the woman are curiously blended in her nature," Phil reflected
                        as he mounted the stairs. "God grant that nothing may ever happen to make it
                        otherwise."
                    For the next hour the two sat together, Valorie studying the beautifully simple proportions of
                        the shaft, and questioning him minutely concerning it. The inscription carved upon the granite
                        was written below the drawing, and Valorie knew it by heart when she handed the sheet back to
                        him.
                    "You may keep it if you like," he said.
                    "Thank you, Mr. Phil."
                
                
                
                    XLIII
                    
                        T
                        HE next day Phil fully laid the facts of his case before Colonel Minor, his
                        counsel. After asking all the questions that seemed to him necessary concerning the abduction,
                        Colonel Minor sat musing for awhile. Phil, impatient to know his opinion, asked:
                    "Have Stone & Maxey been to see you about this?"
                    "No, and I don't think they will come. On such a state of facts they must know
                        they haven't any case against you. They have tried to scare a settlement out of you and
                        they have failed. They were trading upon the fact that you were a layman in the law, and they
                        will hardly try anything of that kind on me or my partner Guigon. Still there's one
                        possibility that we mustn't overlook."
                    "What is that?"
                    
                    "Why, that they don't really know the facts. That woman may have colored them
                        or she may have misstated them, or withheld vital details. Designing women often do that, you
                        know, even with their own lawyers."
                    "But that is a foolish thing to do!"
                    "Of course it is, but it is often done. You see, the lawyers in this case persist in
                        speaking of Miss Page as this woman's daughter. It is not unlikely that their client
                        has told them so and sticks to it. If it were true it would make all the difference
                        imaginable."
                    "How so? It wouldn't enable them to prove that I kidnapped the young
                        woman."
                    "No, but it might enable them to give a good deal of trouble on Miss Page's
                        account. You see, if she were really Mrs. Lee's daughter, Mrs. Lee would be entitled to
                        her guardianship, and in order to deprive her of that right we should have to prove
                        affirmatively that she is a woman of bad character, unfit to have custody of her own child.
                        However, you say you can prove that she is not the mother?"
                    "Yes, easily. Miss Page has the certificates  of both her
                        father's marriages and of her own birth. I procured the latter in official form from
                        New Orleans. I thought it might be needed."
                    "That was very wise. Unless the woman has been deceiving Stone & Maxey and they
                        are not persons whom I should think it easy to deceive they will take no further steps looking
                        to your prosecution. Indeed, I think we may dismiss that as a thing settled. But if she has
                        deceived them and still claims to be Miss Page's mother, they may give us some trouble
                        on the young lady's account. Has anybody ever been appointed her guardian?"
                    "Not within my knowledge."
                    "How much does her interest in your steamboat enterprises amount to?"
                    "About thirty thousand dollars now it has doubled within a year."
                    "Is it in the form of stock certificates?"
                    "No, we aren't a corporation."
                    "That's rather a pity. Still we may be able to do something. Do you know
                        anybody who would buy her interest for cash?"
                    
                    "I'd do it myself," Phil answered, "but for the fact that it
                        is earning more as it is than the cash would earn, and I am planning things that will double it
                        again within a year. It would be a pity to have her lose that prospect. However, I can arrange
                        that. I might buy her interest and then, when she comes of age, sell it back to her, as of this
                        date, with its share of the increase added. But why do you think this necessary?"
                    "Why simply because Miss Page has only a residence in Virginia. If she had property
                        within this state, I would advise that she select a guardian yourself or someone else. She would
                        then be under the care of the chancery court, and that court would not permit anybody to remove
                        her from the state or to assume custody of her person except by its own decree upon a
                        satisfactory showing of necessity."
                    "Then if she had property in this state, you could create a situation which would
                        completely free her from the possibility of annoyance?"
                    "Yes easily and certainly."
                    
                    "Very well. She shall have thirty thousand dollars in Virginia Sixes in the
                        Farmers' Bank of Virginia before nightfall. And when she comes of age she shall have a
                        sum sufficient to make good the loss involved to her and the gain to me by reason of the
                        withdrawal of her steamboat investments.
                    "The bonds will be in the bank to her credit at the opening of business to-morrow
                        morning. Please institute the necessary proceedings in the guardianship matter at once. Is there
                        any thing for her or for me to do?"
                    "Not much. She will be summoned to the circuit court in your county it is sitting now
                        and asked to choose a guardian for herself. The person chosen should be present, prepared to
                        execute the required bond, though that is not necessary. That is all."
                    Phil Shenstone was accustomed to Western ways of business. It was his habit, when his mind was
                        made up as to what he wanted to do, to do it out of hand. When he left the lawyer's
                        office he went at once to his bank, inquired the amount of his balance, drew upon his bankers at
                        the West for the additional  sum needed, and had the amount placed
                        to his credit. Then he opened negotiations for the Virginia Sixes, purchased them and placed
                        them in the vaults of the Farmers' Bank of Virginia in a box marked with
                        Valorie's name, and subject to her order.
                    This done he mounted and rode to Woodlands, where he arrived just in time for the four
                        o'clock dinner.
                    Greg Tazewell rode away almost immediately after dinner, and as soon as he had gone, Phil secured
                        audience with Valorie.
                    "Val," he said, "I've bought out all your steamboat
                        interests, and invested the money for you in Virginia six per cent. bonds. The bonds are in the
                        Farmers' Bank of Virginia for safekeeping. They have a face value of thirty thousand
                        dollars, but they could be sold for more than that, as they are at a premium."
                    "What a lot of money, Mr. Phil," exclaimed the girl. "I hope it
                        didn't embarrass you to well, to do whatever you had to do in arranging it."
                    "Not at all. You see, a man who owns many steamboats must always keep a pretty  large sum of money in bank where he can put his hand on it at a
                        moment's notice."
                    "Why is that, Mr. Phil?"
                    "Oh, for several reasons. He may suddenly have to buy a steamboat, or one of his boats
                        may burn or sink or any one of a dozen other things may happen which make it necessary for him
                        to have a good deal of ready money. So I always keep good balances in Cincinnati, Louisville,
                        St. Louis and New Orleans. When I found it necessary to-day to buy out your interests I had only
                        to make a draught upon one of my bank accounts, for the necessary money."
                    "Oh, I see," she said, "I'm glad it didn't bother
                        you."
                    "I hope you sanction the transaction?" he said.
                    "Why, of course. You know all about such things, and whatever you do is right."
                    "You are a strange girl, Val."
                    "In what way, Mr. Phil?"
                    "Any other woman would have wanted to know all about this thing, and why I did it, and a
                        score of other things, while you ask no  more questions about it
                        than you would if I had told you I had bought you a box of candy."
                    "Why should I?" she asked. "My father placed his money in your hands
                        and told you to manage it for me, didn't he?"
                    "Yes, but "
                    "Well, then why should I question you about how you manage it? That would be a
                        reflection upon both my father and you."
                    "But what if I want to tell you about it?"
                    "Oh, you are to tell me whatever you like, of course. That's quite
                        different."
                    "Very well. I did this under the advice of my lawyer, Colonel Minor, by way of putting
                        an end to the pestilent activity of the woman you called a vampire, and her disreputable
                        lawyers."
                    "You don't mean you have paid them any money, or are to pay them any?"
                        The question was asked in an indignant tone.
                    "Not a cent," he replied. "I'd go to jail rather than do
                        that. But Colonel Minor advises me that if you own property of any kind in Virginia and are
                        living here, the court will  appoint a guardian for you, who will
                        have control of your affairs until you come of age. So I have converted your steamboat property
                        into State bonds. Presently you will be asked to go to the court and choose a
                        guardian."
                    "That will be you, of course, Mr. Phil."
                    "I think not. You see, Val, I'm getting Mrs. Spottswood's affairs into
                        good shape now, and as soon as you have a guardian appointed my work in Virginia will be done. I
                        am going West then, to carry out some large plans I have formed."
                    Valorie's face clouded, not with anger, but with disappointment. He was not looking at
                        her at the moment, and so he did not see the expression, but went on to say:
                    "And anyhow, it will be better to have Greg in the place."
                    "Am I free to choose?" she asked coldly, and making no other response to his
                        suggestion.
                    "Yes, entirely so."
                    "Then as you decline to serve, I'm going to write to Judge Albemarle and ask
                        him to be  my guardian. I don't want to be under
                        obligations of any kind to Dr. Tazewell."
                    Without waiting for his reply she glided into the house, going at once to Colonel
                        Shenstone's chamber.
                    Phil was doubly puzzled. The tone in which she had spoken of his having
                        "declined" to serve, was an injured one, and he could in no wise guess why it
                        should be so. Still more puzzling was her prompt refusal to have Greg Tazewell for her guardian,
                        and her curious explanation that she did not wish to be under obligation to him. Phil gave up
                        the riddle presently, and dismissed the matter from his mind as "only one more
                        inscrutable manifestation of the feminine character."
                    When he met her at supper she seemed preoccupied and not quite happy he thought. But she entered
                        freely into such conversation as arose between the two. Valorie might be angry, or hurt in her
                        sensibilities, but she was never sulky.
                
                
                
                    XLIV
                    
                        J
                        UDGE ALBEMARLE was at breakfast when he received Valorie's letter
                        asking him to act as her guardian. He read the missive twice, with curiosity. Then he passed it
                        to Mrs. Albemarle, saying: "See if you can make out what it means, Mattie."
                    She read the lines as follows:
                    "I wonder if your being a judge will prevent you from doing me a favor? Or is it
                        contempt of court for me to ask such a thing? It seems I must have a guardian. I'm sure
                        I often think I need one, but that is only when I do very foolish things, and I can't
                        think of anything very foolish that I've been doing lately. Still, Mr. Phil's
                        lawyers have decided that I must have a guardian and I suppose I must. I want you to be that for
                        me if you will. You aren't my first choice, of course. My father left all his money in
                        Mr. Phil's  hands and he has taken care of it for me till
                        now. I asked him to be my guardian and go on taking care of it, but he can't, because
                        he is going away to the West again and doesn't mean to come back ever. So I've
                        decided to ask you to do it for me. Will you?"
                    Mrs. Albemarle made no effort to explain the matter. Instead she said:
                    "Jack, I must see Phil Shenstone immediately. I'll send him a note after
                        breakfast. You'll write to Valorie and tell her you'll serve, won't
                        you?"
                    "Of course. Ordinary gallantry requires that; but I can't imagine what it all
                        means."
                    "It means that somebody has been more than ordinarily stupid. I'll tell you all
                        about it after I have seen Phil."
                    When she had finished her breakfast she kept her promise of writing to Phil. Her letter was a
                        thoroughly diplomatic one, effectually concealing the purpose with which it was written. It
                        contained no reference to Valorie or Valorie's affairs, and it made no mention of her
                        letter to Judge Albemarle.
                    
                    "I want to see you, Phil, at the earliest time you can make it convenient to come to me.
                        Indeed I must see you, about some perplexing things I have on my mind. I want
                        to consult with you. You see, Jack is of no account in such things. His head is too full of
                        'precedents' and 'rulings' and 'statutes, in that
                        case made and provided.' So come to me, please, as soon as you can. You
                        needn't mind about the 'customary hours of calling' or anything of
                        that kind."
                    In the postscript she said:
                    "I suppose you're madly in love with Edna Spottswood by this time. I'm
                        rather sorry for that, for a young man in love with a girl who lives out of town is of no
                        account socially, and I'm planning a lot of things for this spring."
                    In the restlessness that afflicted him at that time, Phil welcomed the prospect of the diversion
                        which a response to this invitation promised, and he would have set off for Richmond at once if
                        that had been permitted. But Colonel Minor had hastened matters. The court  was in session for the county in which Woodlands lay, and when it should adjourn
                        it would not meet again for several months. Accordingly Colonel Minor sent a note to Phil asking
                        him to have Valorie at the Court House, a few miles from Woodlands, on the afternoon of the day
                        on which Mrs. Albemarle's letter was received.
                    Phil escorted her to the county seat of course, where the business was quickly adjusted, but it
                        was nearly nightfall when the returning carriage reached Woodlands. Phil must therefore delay
                        his visit until the morrow.
                    Colonel Shenstone was particularly bright and cheerful that evening. He was rejoicing that
                        Valorie was now safe from further annoyance, and in his satisfaction he insisted that his
                        "Little Minx" should sit by his easy chair in the chamber and talk to him
                        gently. He dismissed Phil as a superfluous person on that occasion, saying: "Amuse
                        yourself, my boy, in any way you please. I just want my Little Minx with me and nobody
                        else."
                    The old man and the young woman talked long and lovingly together with nothing to interfere,  for Valorie was too perfectly mistress of herself to let him see
                        the shadow that had rested upon her spirit ever since Phil had so unemotionally told her of his
                        purpose to go away.
                    Phil meanwhile sat in his room, with plans, estimates and other papers spread upon the table
                        before him. For now that Valorie was safe and Mrs. Spottswood's affairs in the hands of
                        capable lawyers, he meant to quit the scene of his disappointment almost immediately. He wanted
                        to perfect his plans so that he might be ready for action the moment he should reach the West.
                    "Besides," he reflected, "I'm not very good company for
                        myself just now. I need distraction, and work over my plans will keep me from thinking too
                        much."
                    When he rose next morning the young man dressed himself in riding costume, meaning to set out for
                        Richmond immediately after breakfast, and return in time for supper.
                    As he and Valorie sat at breakfast, Colonel Shenstone, walking very unsteadily and supported by
                        his servant, entered the room. It 
                        
                            "OH, UNCLE BUTLER, WHAT IS
                                    THE MATTER?" Page 421.
                            
                        
                         was his custom, now that he seemed to be growing stronger again,
                        to take his meals at table with the others, and so his coming did not surprise Phil or Valorie.
                        But as Valorie looked up to greet him she exclaimed with alarm and distress in her voice:
                    "Oh, Uncle Butler, what is the matter! What has happened?"
                    Shuffling into his chair, he tried to answer. "Nothing," but the word was
                        uttered thickly and with difficulty, while his face was strangely distorted. One eye drooped
                        until it was well nigh closed, and one side of his mouth sagged as if its muscles had been
                        paralyzed. One arm hung limp and useless, and one leg was under scarcely better control. When
                        seated he manifested a tendency to fall over sideways, so that it was necessary for his servant
                        to support him.
                    Phil guessed at once what was the matter, and he gave his orders promptly. To the dining-room
                        servant he said:
                    "Send Dick for Dr. Tazewell at once. Tell him to ride my horse and to push him every
                        inch of the way."
                    
                    Then to Colonel Shenstone's body servant he said:
                    "Help me get him back to bed;" and to Valorie, who was ordering hot water,
                        mustard and everything else she could think of, he said:
                    "Never mind things of that sort, Val. There is nothing whatever to be done till Greg
                        comes, except put him to bed, and there is no immediate danger, dear!"
                    Even in her distress she observed the unaccustomed term of endearment. As matters stood between
                        her and Phil she would have been more or less than a woman if she had not.
                    "But can't we soothe his pain?" she asked.
                    "He has no pain, I think."
                    The old man confirmed this assurance, saying with difficulty "No pain, Little Minx, no
                        pain."
                    "Thank God for that much!" she exclaimed, and she waited anxiously for Phil to
                        come out of the chamber again. When he did so she asked with strained face and faltering voice:
                    
                    "What is it, Mr. Phil? Tell me, tell me, tell me."
                    "A stroke of some kind," he answered, "a cerebral hemorrhage, I think.
                        It is what is called apoplexy, if I am not mistaken. Greg will know, and he will be here within
                        the hour. When he sees that Dick is riding my horse, he'll know the call is a hurried
                        one and he'll ride hard, you may be sure."
                    In his thought he added:
                    "I wish I could believe his coming would do any good," but he did not utter the
                        words.
                    "Are you sure he has no pain?" she asked anxiously. "His features are
                        horribly distorted."
                    "Yes, I'm sure of that, Val. Apoplexy tends to paralyze the sense of pain. I
                        doubt that he would feel it if a pin were thrust into his flesh on the side affected. The
                        distortion of his features is due simply to the absence of nervous control over the muscles, I
                        think."
                    Then, with a loving purpose to distract the poor girl's mind and occupy her attention
                        until Greg should come, he said:
                    "I wish you'd go at once, Val, and write  to Mrs.
                        Albemarle about this. He was her guardian in her girlhood, you know, and she dearly loves him.
                        She loves you, too, and will want to come to us in our affliction. Write to her, and
                        I'll send a special messenger to carry your note by the ten-thirty train."
                    He intended to send also by the messenger, a telegraphic despatch to be forwarded from the
                        railroad station, but he wanted Valorie to write the letter for the sake of the relief it would
                        give her to do so.
                    Soon after she completed the task, Greg Tazewell came. When he came out of the chamber after
                        examining his patient, he confirmed Phil's conjecture as to the nature of the attack.
                    In answer to Valorie's anxious questions he said:
                    "He will probably recover from the attack. There is a blood clot, producing pressure on
                        the brain. It will, in all likelihood, be slowly absorbed. Meanwhile he will suffer no pain.
                        There is nothing to be done to hasten the process of absorption. He needs no medicine. We can
                        only keep him quiet, and if he recovers  sufficiently to walk
                        about, his servant must be always by his side. He might fall, you know."
                    He did not say to Valorie as he did to Phil when they two were alone:
                    "It is the beginning of the end, you know. He will probably get better of this attack,
                        but another and a severer one is inevitable, and it may come at any moment. When it does, it
                        will probably make an end of him quickly."
                
                
                
                    XLV
                    
                        M
                        ORE for the satisfaction of Valorie than because of any need of his presence
                        or any good he could do, Greg Tazewell decided to remain at Woodlands during most of the day.
                    In the late afternoon Mrs. Albemarle arrived, greatly to Valorie's relief. Mrs.
                        Albemarle had the gift of cheering others and comforting them, in a very unusual measure, and
                        her presence was almost a benediction to the younger woman, the more so when she announced her
                        purpose to remain at Woodlands until Colonel Shenstone should get better of the attack. Under
                        her inspiration the house took on a more cheerful aspect than it would otherwise have done,
                        while to Valorie her presence afforded a very much needed companionship.
                    Mrs. Albemarle said nothing to Phil about any of the supposititious concerns she had professed
                             to have on her mind, but Phil easily explained this to
                        himself. The things she had wished to consult him about, he thought, were matters of social
                        entertainment, and these she very naturally put aside under the circumstances.
                    At the end of a week, Colonel Shenstone's condition was so far improved that she decided
                        to return to town on the morrow. During the evening she managed to be left alone with Phil for
                        half an hour or so, managing also to make the fact seem quite accidental.
                    "Valorie tells me you think of going to the West pretty soon, Phil," she said
                        in an entirely casual way, as if merely making conversation.
                    "Yes," he answered. "Now that Val is secure against annoyance I am
                        anxious to get back to my work. I'm planning some large enterprises, and the time is
                        ripe for carrying them out. I'm rather impatient to get away, and but for my
                        uncle's attack I should be leaving immediately. As it is I shall go as soon as he is
                        well enough for me to leave him."
                    
                    "So you really think he is going to get well enough for that?"
                    "I sincerely hope so."
                    "Does Greg encourage that hope?"
                    "Yes, in a way."
                    "I see, only 'in a way' and not very confidently. I've talked
                        with him, and I'm afraid I don't quite believe he's as hopeful as he
                        pretends. Still I hope it will prove to be so. How queer it was in Valorie to ask Jack Judge
                        Albemarle, I should say to serve as her guardian! Wasn't it?"
                    "Yes, it surprised me a good deal. I thought she would have chosen Greg Tazewell for
                        that part, in view of the circumstances."
                    "What circumstances? I fear I'm dull, but I don't
                        understand."
                    "Why, of course she is going to marry him; they're betrothed."
                    "Are they? I hadn't heard of that. Indeed you surprise me with the news. I
                        should have expected Valorie to tell me of such a thing as that."
                    "I'm surprised that neither she nor Greg  has
                        ever spoken to me about it either," he replied. "I've been expecting
                        to be taken into their confidence, but they haven't told me, yet."
                    "Have you asked either of them about it?"
                    "No, naturally not. It would have been an intrusion, so long as they did not see fit to
                        volunteer the information."
                    Mrs. Albemarle rose as if to pass from the porch into the house, paused a moment, stooping to
                        pluck an early blooming flower that grew near the steps, and then turning her face full upon him
                        said, with a queer smile upon her lips:
                    "Phil Shenstone, for a brainy man you are most interestingly stupid! But men always are
                        stupid especially brainy men."
                    Without explanation and without waiting for a reply, the clever woman retreated into the house to
                        join Valorie.
                    Phil resolved at once to "have this thing out" with her, to seize the first
                        opportunity for further private converse, and to question her closely as to her meaning. But in
                        so planning he did not sufficiently allow for Mrs. Albemarle's  cleverness, or sufficiently appreciate her resolute determination that he should
                        have no such opportunity. Without seeming to avoid private speech with him, and with an
                        artfulness that concealed art, she so managed as to see him only in the presence of others
                        during that evening and the next morning. She had said all she intended to say, all that she
                        believed she could say without disloyalty to her sex, and she did not intend to submit to any
                        questioning on the subject.
                    After she entered her carriage next morning, and just as the driver was ready to give rein to the
                        horses, Phil thrust his head into the carriage upon some pretense of adjusting the lap cloths,
                        and said hurriedly:
                    "Tell me what you meant last night."
                    She answered quickly:
                    "It's of no use. There never was a man who could understand what a woman means.
                        Drive on Frederick. Good-bye, Valorie."
                    The next moment she was whirled away by the impatient horses, eager to stretch their muscles
                        after a week of idleness in stable and paddock.
                
                
                
                    XLVI
                    
                        P
                        HIL SHENSTONE was puzzled. There seemed to be some subtly hidden meaning,
                        something suggestive of a hint, in her words both those spoken the evening before, and those
                        with which she had taken leave. Still more was there a suggestion of that kind in her manner. He
                        strolled about the plantation for an hour or so trying to read the riddle. The trouble was that
                        in both cases the words were open to two constructions. When she had called him
                        "stupid," she might have referred to his sensitiveness about intruding upon
                        the reserve of Greg and Valorie, or she might have meant to cast doubt upon the accuracy of his
                        conviction that they two were betrothed. Still more manifest was the equivocal character of her
                        morning's reply to his question as to her meaning, "there never was a man who
                        could understand  what a woman means." Did she refer to
                        his inability to understand her words of the night before? Or did she mean to suggest that
                        perhaps he had misinterpreted Valorie's attitude and sentiment toward Greg Tazewell?
                    Question the matter as he might, he could in no wise interpret the oracular sentences.
                    Presently an illuminating thought arose in his mind.
                    "Why should I not ask Greg? We are gentlemen and we are friends. Mrs.
                        Albemarle's words and manner seem to suggest a possibility that I have mistaken the
                        situation. In my mind that doubt is a very slender one, but still it is a doubt. I have a right
                        to have it resolved. I have a right to ask Greg to tell me frankly what the facts are, and he is
                        bound to tell me. I'll do that, though I am convinced that I know the facts already.
                        Under the circumstances it will not be an impertinence, and he cannot so regard it."
                    It was Phil's habit to act promptly when he had once decided to act at all. He quickened
                        his leisurely stroll into a brisk walk, and when he learned from Valorie that Greg was not to
                             visit Woodlands that day unless summoned, he ordered his
                        horse, saying to Valorie:
                    "I feel the need of exercise. Uncle does not need me this morning and so I think I shall
                        go for a long ride."
                    His horse was a powerful one, and fresh. His own impatience grew upon him as he rode, and the
                        gait he chose for the greater part of the way was a gallop.
                    Greg was reading in the porch when he rode up. He rose hastily and throwing his book aside
                        hurried to meet his friend, asking anxiously:
                    "Is Colonel Shenstone worse? Has he had another stroke?"
                    Phil reassured him and entered the porch with him. Impatient as he was to reach results, he was
                        determined to make no hasty approach to the subject in his mind. The matter was one to be
                        mentioned only with dignity and a certain deference. Phil, therefore, permitted the conversation
                        to run in customary channels for a time. He spoke of Greg's spring plowing, which he
                        had observed as he rode through the plantation. He asked about a 
                        clearing of new grounds which had been done during the winter, and talked of such other
                        commonplace subjects as suggested themselves to his mind.
                    After awhile he interrupted all this, to say:
                    "Greg, you and I are friends. We are two gentlemen of Virginia, and each of us perfectly
                        knows that the other could not be guilty of impertinent intrusion. But there are circumstances
                        which may warrant either in asking the other a question which ordinarily he would have no right
                        to ask and indeed would never think of asking."
                    "My dear Phil," interrupted the other, "I can't imagine what
                        it is you want to ask, but I give you the fullest leave to ask it, whatever it is. I promise not
                        to think of it as intrusive or in anyway unwarranted. What is it?"
                    "Thank you," said Phil. "I have been wondering why you and Val are so
                        strangely reticent with me. In view of my close friendship for both of you, I have been unable
                        to understand why neither of you has directly told me of your engagement."
                    
                    Greg rose, slowly filled a pipe, motioning Phil to do the same, and called to a
                        "chap" as a young negro was always called in Virginia to bring a coal of fire,
                        before replying. Perhaps he needed a little time to conquer some feeling. At last he said:
                    "The explanation is very simple, Phil. We have not told you of our engagement because we
                        are not engaged."
                    "Is it definitely broken off?"
                    "It has never existed. Listen, Phil. Just before you left us for the West last Fall, I
                        addressed Valorie, and she rejected me gently, in the kindest way possible, but very positively.
                        She was at pains even to warn me never to approach the subject again, assuring me that her
                        decision was final. I supposed you knew of her rejection. Everybody else does. I suppose your
                        going away so soon afterwards prevented you from hearing of it, and since your return
                        you've been too constantly shut up at Woodlands. Besides, people exhausted the subject
                        during your absence and don't talk about it now, I reckon. I  should have told you, if I had suspected that you did not know."
                    "Thank you for telling me now. You do not intend to renew your suit?"
                    "Certainly not. Indeed I dare not, after what she said to me. It would be equivalent to
                        saying I doubted her sincerity even her veracity. Besides I believe I have pretty thoroughly
                        conquered myself in the matter. I have no desire to marry."
                    "You are speaking with entire candor reserving nothing?"
                    "On my word of honor, Phil."
                    Then, as if after all the subject was still one that he preferred not to talk or think about too
                        much, he abruptly changed the subject.
                    "Come with me to the garden, Phil. It is exceptionally early this year."
                    "No," said the other, "I think I must ride. I'm expected at
                        Woodlands to dinner."
                    "But you can't. I've sent your horse to the stable, and
                        you're to dine with me. I have dinner at three, you know, and to-day I have the first
                        spring lamb and the first  asparagus served in this county this
                        year."
                    There was a note of pleading insistence in his tone, which Phil did not care to resist, and so
                        the two friends passed the hours together, chiefly in looking over a box of books that Greg had
                        just received from New York, some of them rare and curious, all of them books of value.
                    "It is my one extravagance," he said, "and it will cost me a good deal
                        this year, for I find I must build an addition to the library wing of the house. The library is
                        choked and overflowing as you see."
                    "Tell me about my uncle," said Phil, after they had finished the books.
                        "Isn't he going to get completely well? He certainly seems to be growing
                        stronger, and his mind is clearing."
                    "He is gaining, of course, and he will continue to gain, if he doesn't have
                        another stroke a thing that may happen at any moment or may not happen for months or years to
                        come. But he will never be the man he was. He may get well enough to enjoy life, but he will
                        never take an active part in it again. His mind is  clearing, as
                        you say, but his old intellectual vigor can never come back to him."
                    As Shenstone was about to mount for the homeward ride, Tazewell said:
                    "I'm glad I've had you to dinner to-day. There may not be another
                        chance. I shall probably leave for France pretty soon, almost any day in fact."
                    "Why are you going abroad just now, Greg?"
                    "Why, you know I have accepted an invitation to deliver some lectures before the Medical
                        School there, in exposition of one of my appliances. I told you about it last Fall, but
                        you've doubtless forgotten."
                    "But you told me afterwards you had given it up?"
                    "I did think of giving it up, but I've reconsidered. You see medical science is
                        rapidly advancing over there, and I want to spend a year catching up."
                    Phil believed he understood more than his friend had told him. Perhaps Greg Tazewell had not so
                        completely conquered his love as he tried to believe that he had.
                
                
                
                    XLVII
                    
                        I
                        T was not until after supper that Phil had opportunity of intimate speech
                        with Valorie. Meeting her in the hall he took her hand in his and without a word, led her out
                        into the porch, where the air of the Virginia springtime was soft and warm, and redolent of
                        early blooming flowers.
                    She withdrew her hand from his, as they seated themselves upon the edge of the porch. Phil
                        observed the act of shyness, but made no effort to check it. He held his own love for the young
                        woman by his side in too reverent a respect to think of trifles in connection with it. Matters
                        were at crisis now, and nothing seemed to him of consequence but the result.
                    "Val," he began, "I have been dining with Greg Tazewell to-day, and he
                        has told me something that astonishes me very much."
                    He paused for her answer, but she made  none. During the moment or
                        two that he waited for it, he quite forgot the rest of the speech he had formulated in his mind
                        for use on this occasion, and said something else of a more definite sort.
                    "You know I love you, Val, as I have never loved any other Woman as I can never love any
                        other. You must have known it for a long time."
                    As he uttered the words he again took her hand in his, and this time she did not withdraw it. But
                        he observed that it trembled with her emotion.
                    "You must have known it all the while, Val."
                    "You never told me," she said, chokingly.
                    "There were good reasons for that," he answered. "I'll
                        explain it presently. But I tell you now that I love you, and have loved you ever since that
                        June morning when we drove to Woodlands together, and you showed me the beauty of your soul as
                        you danced by the roadside in your enjoyment of the loveliness all about you. Tell me that you
                        love me in return. Tell me, Val."
                    
                    "I suppose I do no that isn't an honest way of putting it, Phil, and I want to
                        be honest with you always. Yes, I love you."
                    At this point there was a brief interruption of speech, but as his arm was about her waist and
                        she suffered her head to lie upon his shoulder after he had drawn it there, speech seemed not
                        very necessary.
                    After a while, in answer to some question that arose in her own mind, she said:
                    "I think I must have loved you, Phil, ever since that June morning you speak of, though
                        I didn't know it then, or till long afterwards. It was then that you began being good
                        to me, tenderly considerate, and you've always been that. You are so big and strong and
                        so gentle how could I help loving you, Phil? But I've tried hard not to love you very,
                        very hard."
                    "But why, Val?"
                    "Because I didn't think you loved me, and you know it isn't nice for a
                        girl to let herself love a man who doesn't love her first if she can help it. I have
                        been very sure especially since you came back from the West,  that
                        you didn't want me to love you except in the way I love Uncle Butler and the memory of
                        my father. It has troubled me very, very much."
                    She did not say what it was that had troubled her very, very much, but as Phil asked for no
                        specifications it is to be supposed that he understood.
                    A little later he returned to his former theme.
                    "Let me tell you all about things, Val. Before I went away I had closely observed you
                        and Greg together "
                    "That was when I was quarreling with him for his cold-bloodedness in Jane's
                        case," she interrupted.
                    "Perhaps so, but I had no means of knowing that or guessing it. I was firmly convinced
                        that he and you loved each other and were engaged. That is why I went away. I flinched from the
                        prospect of hearing the truth from you or from him, just then. I wanted to use myself to it, to
                        harden myself to the  thought that I had lost you, before being
                        told about it. It was weak in me and cowardly, I know "
                    "No, not that," she said with emphasis; "Not that, not
                        cowardly."
                    "Thank you. When I returned I again observed you and him together "
                    "That was when I was quarreling with him about what I thought was his neglect of Uncle
                        Butler. He explained it at last and we made it up. If it had been anything else, I should have
                        told you."
                    "So I thought, and as you didn't tell me I sometimes felt a good deal hurt. I
                        had no sort of doubt that you and he were engaged, and I have wondered not a little that neither
                        of you valued my friendship enough to take me into your confidence in a matter so tenderly
                        touching the lives of both of you. That is why I have been planning to go to the West again,
                        never to return."
                    A gentle pressure of her hand was her only response.
                    "Not until this morning did the least doubt arise in my mind as to the truth of my
                        conviction  that you and he were engaged. When it did arise I went
                        at once to Greg, and as one gentleman of Virginia to another, asked him to tell me the facts of
                        the case. He did so, fully, freely and generously. But why had you never told me, Val, that he
                        had addressed you and that you had refused him?"
                    "It wouldn't have been nice in me to talk of that," she answered.
                        "Only heartless flirts go about boasting of their 'conquests'how I
                        detest the vulgar phrase! Greg Tazewell offered me the love of an honorable man. I could not
                        accept it, but I respected it and I respected him."
                    "You are right, of course, Val. You are always right in your feelings always true and
                        gentle and womanly."
                    "I don't know about that, though I try hard to be what you say. Oh, Phil, you
                        don't know how happy I am!"
                    "I think I do," he said, as he plucked a spear of snow-white hyacinth on which
                        a stream of light from a window fell, and deftly fastened it in her hair.
                    Long before these two quitted the porch and  passed into the house,
                        the servants within were wondering why they sat so long out there in the night air. If the
                        servitors could have seen what happened as the two bade each other good-night at the foot of the
                        stairs, perhaps the wiser ones among them could have guessed, as Mrs. Albemarle did next day
                        when she received a note from Phil. It said only:
                    "You were wrong. A man does sometimes find out what a woman means."
                
                
                
                    XLVIII
                    
                        I
                        T was Valorie's custom to go into the garden in the very early
                        morning to start operations there and to superintend the gathering of vegetables for the
                        day's use while the dew was yet on them. Phil, of course, was at the stables at
                        daylight to see the farm animals fed and curried for the day.
                    On the morning following his conference with Valorie, he left the stables about sunrise, and by a
                        curious coincidence was in the garden when Valorie got there a thing that had not happened
                        before.
                    They strolled about for a time for the gardeners had not come yet and then seated themselves in a
                        circular arbor or summer house, which was closely covered with yellow Jessamine vines.
                    "Uncle Butler must be the first to hear our news, Phil," said Valorie,
                        "and if you don't  mind, I want to be the one to
                        tell him."
                    "It shall be as you wish, Val. I don't care who tells such news."
                    "But you know, Phil, it can't take place for a long time yet."
                    She didn't say what it was that must be thus postponed, and perhaps it was not
                        necessary. She went on to explain:
                    "You know I once told you I would never leave Uncle Butler, and I meant it. It
                        can't take place till he is well and strong again."
                    "We'll see what he says about it, Val, but in any case, everything shall be as
                        you wish."
                    At that moment the head gardener appeared and Valorie set to work at her morning's
                        tasks, Phil, meanwhile, busying himself with the collection of a bunch of flowers for her. As
                        she took them from his hand, one delicate blossom attracted her attention. After studying it for
                        an instant, she said:
                    "Look, Phil. I wonder if that isn't what Philip James Bailey meant when he
                        wrote in 'Festus' that 'Her cheek had the pale, pearly pink of
                        sea-shells nature's sweetest tint.'"
                    Perhaps so, but he spoiled it all as he  often spoiled his best
                        sentences, by adding something at once forced and commonplace."
                    "Yes, I know what you mean. The passage goes on: 'She looked as though she
                        lived, one half might deem, on roses sopped in silver dew' and that's very
                        bad. But I don't agree with you that it spoils the other, because one can just think of
                        the other by itself. I always do that in reading 'Festus.' Isn't it a
                        glorious morning!" As she spoke she saw that the gardener had passed out of sight
                        behind some shrubbery, and yielding to an impulse born of the morning and of her own joyous
                        mood, she executed a fragmentary pas seul on the smooth surface of the path.
                    Phil clapped his hands in applause.
                    "That's the way you danced by the roadside on that most glorious of all June
                        mornings that ever dawned."
                    "Is it? I'm glad. I feel as I did then,only ever so much happier."
                    A moment later, she said:
                    "Oh, Phil, after I've told Uncle Butler about it, you must go and ask him if we
                        may, you know. He has a right to expect that."
                    
                    "Of course. I'll go to him the moment I hear from you that you've told
                        him. I'm subject to orders now, you know."
                    "Please don't joke, Phil. It hurts me. It seems well, sacrilegious almost
                        blasphemous."
                    The glee with which the old gentleman received the news was cheering to behold.
                    "It is what I have wanted from the first," he said, "but lately I have
                        feared it might never happen. You two seemed to be drawing apart, and it has troubled me a great
                        deal, Little Minx."
                    "I'm sorry, Uncle. But we weren't drawing apart, really and truly,
                        Uncle. Phil will explain all that. I'll go and send him to you now. You see, we
                        can't think it's all so until he asks your permission and you say
                        yes."
                    "But suppose I say no, Little Minx?"
                    "You won't, Uncle Butler. You never say no when I want you to say
                        yes."
                    "That's only because I can't. I haven't resolution
                        enough."
                    When alone with Phil, Colonel Shenstone said:
                    
                    "I want you to oblige me, my boy to do me the greatest favor in your power."
                    "I'll do it, Uncle, whatever it is."
                    "I want you and my Little Minx to be married here at Woodlands and just as soon as
                        possible. You see, Phil, I am not deceived. I am much older than my years, as old as my
                        arteries, as Greg puts it. I'm comfortable now, and the paralysis is leaving me. But
                        I'm not deceived. I shall have another stroke and after that the end. It may come at
                        any time, and before it comes I want to see you and the Little Minx married, so that I may know
                        positively who are to be master and mistress of Woodlands when I am gone. You can't
                        understand my feeling perhaps, or fully appreciate it. But ever since the first Shenstone
                        established this plantation in 1635, it has been the seat of our family. There has always been a
                        Shenstone to maintain the honor of our name, to dispense a generous hospitality here, and to do
                        justice, love mercy and live uprightly. You are the fittest man I know to be the next in our
                        line, and of all the women in the world my Little Minx is the one I should  choose to be the mother of the future men and women of our race. I cannot talk
                        longer. It tires me so to think, but you understand what I want. Go now, and hurry matters all
                        you can. As you go out, please tell Valorie I want to see her."
                    When Valorie went to him, he said:
                    "I've talked till I'm tired, Little Minx. I've told Phil what
                        I want him and you to do. He'll explain it all to you. Promise me you'll do
                        it, won't you?"
                    "I'll do anything in the world you ask, Uncle Butler. You know that,
                        don't you?"
                    "Yes, I know it, Little Minx. God bless you."
                
                
                
                    XLIX
                    
                        I
                        N aid of Colonel Shenstone's purpose to have the wedding as early as
                        possible, Phil and Valorie suggested that it should be entirely private, thus avoiding the
                        necessity of preparation. But the old Virginian would not consent to that.
                    "When there is a marriage at Woodlands," he said, "it is an occasion
                        for rejoicing. There must be feasting and dancing. And it can be done. Let every available
                        servant set to work at once to get things ready and issue your invitations for this day
                        week."
                    To these two, his word was law, and the matter was arranged as he desired. Under the curious rule
                        of conduct that prevailed in Virginia, Phil must not pass a night under the same roof with
                        Valorie after their engagement was announced. So the moment Greg Tazewell  received word of the matter, he invited Phil to take quarters in his house. To his
                        friend he said:
                    "I shall not be there myself after to-morrow, old fellow, as I am to sail for Europe on
                        Saturday. But the house will be open and the servants will look after you."
                    "Then you will not be at the wedding? I had hoped you would be my first
                        groomsman."
                    In Virginia at that time the term "first groomsman" meant much the same that
                        "best man" does now.
                    "No," answered Greg. "I'm sorry, but my ship sails on
                        Saturday."
                    Phil thought he understood and he asked no further questions. But Greg said, presently:
                    "I'll send the bride something from New York as a token of my friendship, which
                        will always be the very warmest in my heart for both of you."
                    Mrs. Albemarle simply "moved to Woodlands," as she said, the moment the date of
                        the wedding was fixed. But while busying herself there both night and day, in Valorie's
                             behalf, she was also issuing orders by mail concerning the
                        preparations that were making at her own house for a reception which she was to give to the
                        young couple a few days after the wedding. They were not going to make a wedding journey, for
                        that would leave Colonel Shenstone in loneliness, and though he insisted, neither of them would
                        consent to that.
                    The festivities at Woodlands and in Richmond were at an end before the waning of April.
                    One morning in June Colonel Shenstone was walking in the grounds with Phil supporting him and
                        Valorie walking on the other side, when suddenly he reeled so that Phil had difficulty in
                        preventing a heavy fall. Summoning help the young man had the unconscious form carried into the
                        house. Consciousness never returned, and after a few days of coma, Colonel Butler Shenstone was
                        gathered to his fathers, after a life of such honor and uprightness and gentle human sympathy as
                        befitted the race from which he was descended.
                    A day or two after the funeral the will was  read. The dead man had
                        given the historic old plantation and everything else that he owned to Valorie. He had made the
                        gift precious to her soul by the terms in which the bequest was set forth:
                    "She brought light into my life when it was dark; warmth, when it was cold; love, after
                        years of lovelessness. To her I have given all that I have to give of a material nature, and to
                        it all I add the blessing of one whose life she made joyous in its end."
                    Two days after the will was read, Phil said to Valorie:
                    "It is not good for you to be here for a time. You need change of scene and a chance to
                        rest and grow strong again. I have been telegraphing. One of my steamboats is loading at
                        Pittsburg for New Orleans. She will take only through freight, and I have arranged that she
                        shall have no passengers but you and me, and your maid of course. Fortunately she is a slow boat
                        and will be heavily laden. We will make the journeyjust you and I in leisurely, restful
                        fashion."
                    
                    "Can we stop at Memphis, where my father lies?"
                    "Yes, Val. That and everything else that you desire. I have only one purpose in life
                        now, and that is to make my wife the happiest woman on earth."
                    "Thank you, Phil, I am already that."
                    Such was her only reply in words.
                    THE END
                
            
        
        
            
            
                Dorothy South
                A Love Story of Virginia Before the War
                By GEORGE CARY EGGLESTON Author of "A Carolina Cavalier"
                Illustrated by C. D. Williams. 12mo, dark red cloth, portrait cover, rough edges, gilt
                    top, $1.50
                
                    
                        THIS
                     distinguished author gives us a most fascinating picture of Virginia's golden age,
                    her fair sons and daughters, beautiful, picturesque homes, and the luxurious, bountiful life of the
                    old-school gentleman. Dorothy South has been described in these characteristic words by Frank R.
                    Stockton: "Learned, lovely; musical, lovely; loving, lovely; so goes Dorothy through the
                    book, and sad would be the fate of poor Arthur Brent, and all of us, if she could be stolen out of
                    it." This is a typically pretty story, clear and sweet and pure as the Southern sky.
                Lothrop, Lee & Shepard Co., Boston
            
            
            
                A Carolina Cavalier
                A Romance of the Carolinas
                By GEORGE CARY EGGLESTON Bound in red silk cloth, Illustrated cover, gilt top, rough edges.
                    Six drawings by C. D. Williams. Size, 5 7 3/4. Price $1.50
                
                    A strong, delightful romance of Revolutionary days, most characteristic of its
                    vigorous author, George Cary Eggleston. The story is founded on absolute happenings and certain old
                    papers of the historic Rutledges of Carolina. As a love story, it is sweet and true; and as a
                    patriotic novel it is grand and inspiring. The historic setting, and the fact that it is
                    distinctively and enthusiastically American, have combined to win instant success for the book.
                Louisville Courier Journal: "A fine story of adventure, teeming with life and aglow with
                    color."
                Cleveland World: "There is action, plot, and fire. Love and valor and loyalty play a part
                    that enhances one's respect for human nature."
                Baltimore Sun: "The story is full of movement. It is replete with adventure. It is saturated
                    with love.
                Lothrop, Lee & Shepard Co., Boston
            
            
            
                A Daughter of the South
                By GEORGE CARY EGGLESTON
                     Illustrated by E. Pollak Decorated Cover, $1.50
                
                    THE action of the story lies in the region of the lower Mississippi river, from
                    Cairo to New Orleans, and its time is the period near the end of the Civil War, after the great
                    river was opened to navigation, but when its banks and bayous were still vexed with hostilities, and
                    the greedy lawlessness of speculators who gave to their business a good deal of the character of
                    crime. It has for its heroine a young woman of high breeding and high character, proud, passionate
                    and duty loving, a woman who thinks clearly, feels strongly and acts in obedience to her own
                    convictions without any shadow of fear or shrinking from the consequences of right doing.
                
                    "In painting Southern romances, George Cary Eggleston is at his best, and his latest
                        book, 'A Daughter of the South,' has the same sweet, pure flavor of love and
                        heroism that characterized his popular novel, 'Dorothy South.'"
                    
                        St. Paul Dispatch.
                    
                
                
                    "It is a charming story, full of delicacy and sweetness, and the picture the author
                        gives of the closing months of the great struggle is well drawn."
                    
                        Brooklyn Daily Eagle.
                    
                
                
                    "As pretty a tale of Southern chivalry and Northern devotion as any one need ask to read
                        is 'A Daughter of the South,' with its picture of wartime conditions which no
                        Southerner who lived through them will ever forget."
                    
                        Milwaukee Free Press.
                    
                
                
                    Lothrop, Lee & Shepard Co.
                    
                    BOSTON
                
            
            
            
                By HAROLD MORTON KRAMER
                HEARTS AND THE CROSS
                Illustrated by HAROLD MATTHEWS BRETT $1.50
                
                    THE
                     story is of a man whose vigorous personality enables him to do justice to himself and to
                    secure justice for himself under most trying conditions. A mysterious wanderer, he wins the better
                    element of a somewhat rough community by his eloquence as the preacher in a neglected parish,
                    meanwhile working in the fields for his support. Lawlessness, heroism, and noble self-sacrifice have
                    their part in the development of an intensely dramatic plot, the interest of which is sustained
                    until the mystery is cleared away, and a satisfactory conclusion is reached with exceeding joy to
                    those who deserve it.
                
                    "There is no slackening of interest, no chilling of sympathy, until the mystery
                        surrounding the hero is cleared away."
                    
                        North American, Philadelphia.
                    
                
                
                    "The book takes hold of the reader and keeps up its interest to the end."
                    
                        Boston Transcript.
                    
                
                GAYLE LANGFORD
                Being the Romance of a Tory Belle and a Patriot Captain
                Illustrated by H. C. EDWARDS $1.50
                MR. KRAMER tells a romance of the "times that tried men's
                    souls" in a way that will permit no one to lay it aside when once he has begun it. Gayle
                    Langford, the heroine, is as imperious and unfathomable as she is beautiful, and her patriot lover
                    is possessed of audacity beyond the common lot of man, else there could be no story. The time is
                    that of the Declaration of Independence, with most of the events in Philadelphia and Trenton. Action
                    crowds upon action from the beginning to the end of this exceptionally good novel.
                
                    "The action is stirring, the dialogue thrilling, and the dramatic situations hold the
                        reader to the last chapter,"
                    
                        Boston Traveller.
                    
                
                
                    "From beginning to end it is filled with rapid action; dramatic climaxes; brisk,
                        incisive dialogue and excellent character drawing."
                    
                        Boston Courier.
                    
                
                
                    LOTHROP, LEE & SHEPARD CO. BOSTON
                
            
            
            
                The Lions of the Lord
                By HARRY LEON WILSON
                Author of "The Spenders." Six illustrations by Rose Cecil O'Neill, bound
                    in dark green cloth, illustrated cover, 12mo. $1.50, postpaid.
                In his romance of the old West, "The Lions of the Lord," Mr. Wilson, whose
                    "The Spenders" is one of the successes of the present year, shows an advance in
                    strength and grasp both in art and life. It is a thrilling tale of the Mormon settlement of Salt
                    Lake City, with all its grotesque comedy, grim tragedy, and import to American civilization. The
                    author's feeling for the Western scenery affords him an opportunity for many graphic pen
                    pictures, and he is equally strong in character and in description. For the first time in a novel is
                    the tragi-comedy of the Mormon development adequately set forth. Nothing fresher or more vital has
                    been produced by a native novelist.
            
            
                The Spenders
                By HARRY LEON WILSON
                
                    70th Thousand
                
                Author of "The Lions of the Lord." Red silk cloth, rough edges, picture cover. Six
                    illustrations by Rose Cecil O'Neill. 12mo. $1.50, postpaid.
                
                    Mark Twain writes to the author: "It cost me my day yesterday. You owe me
                    $400. But never mind, I forgive you for the book's sake."
                
                    Louisville Courier-Journal says: "If there is such a thing as the
                    American novel of a new method, this is one. Absolutely to be enjoyed is it from the first page to
                    the last."
                
                    Harry Thurston Peck, in the New York American, says: "The very best two
                    books written by Americans during the past year have been 'The Spenders,' by Harry
                    Leon Wilson, and 'The Pit,' by Frank Norris."
                
                    Lothrop, Lee & Shepard Co., Boston
                
            
            
            
                The Boss of Little Arcadp
                By HARRY LEON WILSON Full page and text illustrations by ROSE CECIL O'NEILL 12mo Cloth
                    $1.50
                "T
                    HE BOSS," whose title has been bestowed partly in jest, is the editor of
                    a weekly paper of a typical village in the Middle West. The real hero of the book is his staunch
                    friend, though his rival in love. The story is told by the friend, who left the village at the call
                    of the Civil War, returning as Major to resume his law practice and to figure in a delightfully told
                    romance. The humor is everywhere present and of a very high order.
                
                    SOME PRESS OPINIONS
                
                
                    "'The Boss of Little Arcady' is one to be enjoyed in every page for
                        its genuine humor, its sly satire without a touch of malice, and the story of love and
                        friendship which runs through it and ends happily."
                    
                        Cleveland Plain Dealer.
                    
                
                
                    "'The Boss of Little Arcady' is clever, with a cleverness that is not
                        forced, and with a crispness that seems to belong to it and which has the flavor of
                        spontaneity."
                    
                        Brooklyn Eagle.
                    
                
                
                    "It is a story to be read a second time; if not wholly, then in part. The result for the
                        reader is one of the best things that life affordsa book that delights, quickens the sympathies
                        and revivifies the quiescent good in one's nature."
                    
                        Minneapolis Journal.
                    
                
                
                    "Not a dull line in it from cover to cover."
                    
                        The Advance, Chicago.
                    
                
                
                    "The simpler and sweeter things of life hold sway in Little Arcady and the Boss is
                        lovably original."
                    
                        Chicago Evening Post.
                    
                
                
                    "Reading this story is like living among people whom we have known at some time or
                        other, and the charm of the book is in its character descriptions. It is one of the best novels
                        of the year."
                    
                        Philadelphia Inquirer.
                    
                
                
                    Lothrop, Lee & Shepard Co. Boston
                
            
            
            
                The Little Green Door
                
                    By MARY E. STONE BASSETT
                
                Eight illustrations by Louise Clarke and twenty-five decorative
                    half-title pages by Ethel Pearce Clements
                     12mo Cloth $1.50
                
                    A charming romance of the time of Louis XIII. The door which gives the title to
                    the book leads to a beautiful retired garden belonging to the King. In this garden is developed one
                    of the sweetest and tenderest romances ever told. The tone of the book is singularly pure and
                    elevated, although its power is intense.
                
                    "This is a tale of limpid purity and sweetness, which, although its action is developed
                        amid the intrigues and deceptions of a corrupt French court, remains fine and delicate to the
                        end. There is power as well as poetry in the little romance, so delicate in
                        conception."
                    
                        Chicago Daily News.
                    
                
                
                    "Tender, sweet, passionate, pure; a lily from the garden of loves."
                    
                        Baltimore Herald.
                    
                
                
                    "The story is exquisitely pure and tender, possessing a finished daintiness that will
                        charm all clean-minded persons."
                    
                        Louisville Courier-Journal.
                    
                
                
                    "This book carries with it all the exhilaration of a beautiful nature, of flowers,
                        birds, and living things, and the beauty of a winsome personality of a pure, beautiful girl. It
                        is a romance entirely of the fancy, but a refreshing one."
                    
                        Chicago Tribune.
                    
                
                
                    "The little romance is charmingly wrought, and will be sure to find its way to the heart
                        of the reader."
                    
                        Boston Transcript.
                    
                
                
                    Lothrop, Lee & Shepard Co. BOSTON
                
            
            
            
                Judith's Garden
                By MARY E. STONE BASSETT
                With illustrations in color by George Wright. Text printed in two colors throughout,
                    with special ornamentation. 8vo, light green silk cloth, rough edges, gilt top, $1.50
                
                    A
                    N exquisite, delicious, charming book, as fresh as new-mown hay, as fragrant as
                    the odor from the garden of the gods. It is the story of a garden, a woman, and a man. The woman is
                    delicate and refined, witty, and interesting; the man is Irish, funny, original, happy, a delicious
                    and perfect foil to the woman. His brogue is stunning, and his wit infectious and fetching. The
                    garden is quite all right. There is movement in the book; life is abundant, and it attracts. It will
                    catch the interest of every lover of flowers, and their name is legion, and will delight and comfort
                    every reader.
                
                    Lothrop, Lee & Shepard Co., Boston
                
            
            
            
                MISS BILLY
                A NEIGHBORHOOD STORY
                By EDITH K. STOKELY and MARIAN K. HURD Illustrated by CHARLES COPELAND 12mo Cloth 1.50
                "M
                    ISS BILLY" deserves more than passing notice in these days of civic
                    improvement. It is a story of what an irrepressible young woman accomplished in the neighborhood
                    into which her family felt obliged to move for financial reasons. The street was almost as
                    unpromising as the celebrated "Cabbage Patch," and its characters equally
                    interesting and original. The happy common-sense of Miss Billy and the quaint sayings and doings of
                    her new neighbors form a capital story.
                
                    "The story abounds in humor with a hint of tears and an overflowing kindness of heart
                        bubbling over in infectious gayety."
                    
                        Boston Herald.
                    
                
                
                    "The book is sure to have an immense number of readers."
                    
                        St. Louis Star.
                    
                
                
                    "The plan of the tale is original, the conversation very bright and witty, the style
                        smooth, and the characters true to life."
                    
                        Boston Transcript.
                    
                
                
                    "It is a human interest story which appeals to the heart, and at one juncture to the
                        eyes of the sympathetic readers."
                    
                        Pittsburg Chronicle Telegraph.
                    
                
                
                    "'Miss Billy' is a charmingly bright, clever little story, full of
                        spontaneous humor and frankly inspirational."
                    
                        Chicago Daily News.
                    
                
                
                    "'This is an ideal story."
                    
                        N. Y. Times.
                    
                
                
                    Lothrop, Lee & Shepard Co.Boston
                
            
            
            
                The Captain
                By CHURCHILL WILLIAMS, author of "J. Devlin Boss." Illustrated by A. I.
                    Keller. 12mo. Dark red cloth, decorative cover, rough edges. Price, $1.50 each.
                
                    W
                    HO is the Captain? thousands of readers of this fine book will be asking. It is a
                    story of love and war, of scenes and characters before and during the great civil conflict. It has
                    lots of color and movement, and the splendid figure naming the book dominates the whole.
            
            
                J. DevlinBoss
                A ROMANCE OF AMERICAN POLITICS. Blue cloth, decorative cover. 12mo. Price, $1.50.
                
                    Mary E. Wilkins says:
                    
                        "I am delighted with your book. Of all the first novels, I believe yours is the very
                            best. The novel is American to the core. The spirit of the times is in it. It is inimitably
                            clever. It is an amazing first novel, and no one except a real novelist could have written
                            it."
                    
                
                
                    Lothrop, Lee & Shepard Co., Boston
                
            
            
            
                On The Great Highway
                The Wanderings and Adventures of a Special Correspondent
                By JAMES CREELMAN. Red Silk Cloth, Decorative Cover. Size, 5 7 3/4. With Nine Illustrations.
                    Price, net, $1.20; postpaid, $1.35.
                
                    T. DeWITT TALMAGE, D.D., says:
                    
                        "'On the Great Highway,'" by James Creelman, "is
                            a book dramatic and unique. No other man could have written it, because he entered doors
                            that no one else could enter. It begins with the Pope's benediction and ends with
                            President McKinley's departure. Pathos and humor and vivid portraiture of character
                            abound. It will be called for as rapidly as the printing press can turn it
                        out."
                    
                
                
                    JULIAN HAWTHORNE says:
                    
                        "It is memorable both as literature and as contemporary history. Nothing else in the
                            same line so authoritative, so pertinent, so vivid, and so fascinating has been published
                            within my knowledge. The author, with extraordinary gifts, has taken advantage of
                            exceptional opportunities, and the result is a book that should have an unprecedented
                            popularity."
                    
                
                
                    NEW YORK JOURNAL says:
                    
                        "It is a book whose perusal will repay every reader. We take pleasure in
                            recommending it as the most interesting literary production of recent weeks."
                    
                
                
                    BOSTON HERALD says:
                    
                        "The book is at once an invaluable symposium of world opinions and a truthful
                            panorama of world pictures."
                    
                
                
                    Lothrop, Lee & Shepard Co., Boston
                
            
            
            
                The Potter and the Clay
                A Romance of To-day
                By MAUD HOWARD PETERSON. Bound in blue cloth, decorative cover, rough edges, gilt top. Four
                    drawings by Charlotte Harding. Size, 5 7 3/4. Price $1.50
                
                    O
                    NE of the strongest and most forceful of recent novels, now attracting marked
                    attention, and already one of the most successful books of the present year. The characters are
                    unique, the plot is puzzling, and the action is remarkably vivid. Readers and critics alike
                    pronounce it a romance of rare strength and beauty. The scenes are laid in America, Scotland, and
                    India; and one of the most thrilling and pathetic chapters in recent fiction is found in
                    Trevelyan's heroic self-sacrifice during the heart-rending epidemic of cholera in the
                    latter country. The story through out is one of great strength.
                
                    Margaret E. Sangster: "From the opening chapter, which tugs at the heart,
                    to the close, when we read through tears, the charm of the book never flags. It is not for one
                    season, but of abiding human interest."
                
                    Minot J. Savage: "I predict for the book a very large sale, and for the
                    authoress brilliant work in the future."
                Boston Journal "One of the most remarkable books of the year. Brilliant, but better than
                    that, tender."
                
                    Lothrop, Lee & Shepard Co., Boston
                
            
            
            
                Cliveden
                By KENYON WEST. 12mo. Brown cloth, rough edges. Price, $1.50.
                "C
                    LIVEDEN" is an historical romance by Kenyon West, favorably known as the
                    author of several books of fiction and criticism. The story which is quick in action, picturesque in
                    scene, and dramatic in situation centres in the famous Chew House in Germantown, during the
                    Revolutionary War, at the time when the battles of Brandywine and Germantown were being fought, and
                    the British General Howe was threatening the native forces. Both sides of the struggle are
                    represented, the American patriots and the British redcoats, and a charming love-story is developed,
                    in which the principals are a well-born American beauty and a British officer with a noble
                    character. The Chew residence is in a state of siege, and the attempts of a British spy to wreck the
                    fortunes of General Washington, who is only a few miles off, make exciting reading. The volume is
                    given an appropriate patriotic dress.
                
                    Lothrop, Lee & Shepard Co., Boston
                
            
            
            
                The Judges' Cave
                A Romance of the New Haven Colony in the days of the Regicides
                By MARGARET SIDNEY, author of "A Little Maid of Concord-town," "Five
                    Little Peppers," etc. 12mo, cloth, illustrated, $1.50
                
                    T
                    HERE are few more fascinating phases of colonial history than that which tells
                    the wanderings and adventures of the two judges who, because they sat in judgment over that royal
                    criminal, Charles the First of England, were hunted out of England into hiding in New England and
                    there remained, a mystery and fugitives, in their celebrated cave in New Haven Colony. Margaret
                    Sidney has made her careful and exhaustive research into their story a labor of love and has, in
                    this book, woven about them a romance of rare power and great beauty. Marcia, the heroine, is a
                    strong and delightful character, and the book will easily take high rank among the most effective
                    and absorbing stories based upon a dramatic phase of American history.
            
        
    
