
     ----CITATION---- 
        Nicholson, Meredith, 1866-1947. The Madness of May: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2366
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                THE MADNESS OF MAY
                
            
            
            
                
                    "I didn't know it was your moon," he said. [Page 60
                
                
            
            
            
                
                    THE MADNESS OF MAY
                
                BY
                    MEREDITH NICHOLSON
                WITH ILLUSTRATIONS BY FREDERIC DORR STEELE
                
                    Upon the morn they took their horses with the queen, and rode a-maying in woods and meadows, as
                        it pleased them.
                    
                        The Age of Chivalry.
                
                
                    NEW YORK
                    CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS
                    1917
                
            
            
            
                COPYRIGHT, 1917, BY
                     CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS
                Published March, 1917
            
            
            
                TO MRS. CHARLES THOMAS KOUNTZE
            
            
            
                ILLUSTRATIONS
                
                    "I didn't know it was your moon," he said 
                            Frontispiece
                        
                        
                    "The young person left in haste, that's clear enough," remarked
                        Hood 30
                        
                    "I make it a rule never to deny food to any applicant, no matter how unworthy. You
                        may remain" 122
                        
                    "Throw up your hands, boys; it's no use!" cried Hood in mock
                        despair 164
                        
                
            
        
        
            
            
                THE MADNESS OF MAY
            
            
                I
                BILLY DEERING let himself into his father's house near Radford Hills, Westchester County,
                    and with a nod to Briggs, who came into the hall to take his hat and coat, began turning over the
                    letters that lay on the table.
                "Mr. Hood has arrived, sir," the servant announced. "I put him in the
                    south guest-room."
                Deering lifted his head with a jerk. "Hoodwhat Hood?"
                "Mr. Hood is all I know, sir. He said he was expectedyou had asked him for the night. If
                    there's a mistake"
                Deering reached for his hat and coat, which Briggs still held. His face 
                    whitened, and the outstretched hand shook visibly. Briggs eyed him with grave concern, then took a
                    step toward the stairway.
                "If you wish, sir"
                "Never mind, Briggs," Deering snapped. "It's all right.
                    I'd forgotten I had a guest coming; that's all."
                He opened a letter with assumed carelessness and held it before his eyes until the door closed upon
                    Briggs. Then his jaws tightened. He struck his hands together and mounted the steps doggedly, as
                    though prepared for a disagreeable encounter.
                All the way out on the train he had feared that this might happen. The long arm of the law was
                    already clutching at his collar, but he had not reckoned with this quick retribution. The  presence of the unknown man in the house could be explained on no other
                    hypothesis than the discovery of his theft of two hundred thousand dollars in gilt-edged bonds from
                    the banking-house of Deering, Gaylord & Co. It only remained for him to kill himself and
                    escape from the shame that would follow exposure. He must do this at once, but first he would see
                    who had been sent to apprehend him. Hood was an unfamiliar name; he had never known a Hood anywhere,
                    he was confident of that.
                The house was ominously quiet. Deering paused when he reached his own room, glanced down the hall,
                    then opened the door softly, and fell back with a gasp before the blaze of lights. There, lost in
                    the recesses of a comfortable  chair, with his legs thrown across the
                    mahogany table, sat a man he had never seen before.
                "Ah, Deering; very glad you've come," murmured the stranger, glancing up
                    unhurriedly from his perusal of a newspaper.
                He had evidently been reading for some time, as the floor was littered with papers. At this instant
                    something in the page before him caught his attention and he deftly extracted a quarter of a column
                    of text, pinched it with the scissors' points and dropped it on a pile of similar cuttings
                    on the edge of the table.
                "Just a moment!" he remarked in the tone of a man tolerant of interruptions,
                    "and do pardon me for mussing up your room. I liked it better here  than in the pink room your man gave meno place there to put your legs! Creature of
                    habit; can't rest without sticking my feet up."
                He opened a fresh newspaper and ran his eyes over the first page with the trained glance of an expert
                    exchange reader.
                "The Minneapolis papers are usually worthless for my purposes, and yet occasionally they
                    print something I wouldn't miss. I'm the best friend the 'buy your home
                    paper' man has," he ran on musingly, skimming the page and ignoring Deering, who
                    continued to stare in stupefied amazement from the doorway. "Ah!"
                The scissors flashed and the unknown added another item to his collection.
                "That's all," he remarked with a  sigh. He
                    dropped his feet to the floor, rose, and lazily stretched himself.
                Tall, compactly built, a face weather-beaten where the flesh showed above a close-clipped brownish
                    beard, and hair, slightly gray, brushed back smoothly from a broad foreheadthese items Deering noted
                    swiftly as he dragged himself across the threshold.
                "Really, a day like this would put soul into a gargoyle," the stranger remarked,
                    brushing the paper-shavings from his trousers. "Motored up from Jersey and had a grand time
                    all the way. I walk, mostly, but commandeer a machine for long skips. To learn how to live, my dear
                    boy, that's the great business! Not sure I've caught the trick, but I'm
                    working at it, with such feeble talents as the gods have bestowed."
                
                He filled a pipe deftly from a canvas bag, and drew the strings together with white, even teeth.
                This cool, lounging stranger was playing a trick of some kind; Deering was confident of this and
                    furious at his utter inability to cope with him. He clung to the back of a chair, trembling with
                    anger.
                "My name," the visitor continued, tossing his match into an ash-tray, "is
                    HoodR. Hood. The lone initial might suggest Robert or Roderigo, but if your nursery library was
                    properly stocked you will recall a gentleman named Robin Hood of Sherwood Forest. I don't
                    pretend to be a descendantfar from it; adopted the name out of sheer admiration for one of the
                    grandest figures in all literature. Robin Hood, Don  Quixote, and
                    George Borrow are rubricated saints in my calendar. By the expression on your face I see that you
                    don't make me out, and I can't blame you for thinking me insane; but, my dear boy,
                    such an assumption does me a cruel wrong! Briefly, I'm a hobo with a weakness for good
                    society, and yet a friend of the under dog. I confess to a passion for grand opera and lobster in
                    all its forms. Do you grasp the idea?"
                Deering did not grasp it. The man had protested his sanity, but Deering had heard somewhere that a
                    confident belief in their mental soundness is a common hallucination of lunatics. Still, the
                    stranger's steady gray eyes did not encourage the suspicion that he was mad.
                    Deering's own reason, already severely taxed, was unequal to the task  of dealing with this assured and cheerful Hood, who looked like a gentleman but talked
                    like a fool.
                "For God's sake, who are you and what do you want?" he demanded angrily.
                Hood pushed him gently into a chair, utterly ignoring his fury.
                "What time do we dine? Seven-thirty, I think your servant told me. I shan't dress
                    if you don't mind. Speaking of clothes, that man of yours is a very superficial observer;
                    let me in on the strength of my automobile coat, and I suppose the machine impressed him too. If
                    he'd looked under the surface at these poor rags, I'd never have got by! That
                    illustrates an ancient habit of the serving class in thinking all is gold that glitters. Snobs!
                    Deplorable  weakness! Let's talk like sensible men till the
                    gong sounds."
                Deering shook himself impatiently. This absurd talk, carefully calculated, he assumed, to prolong his
                    misery, had torn his nerves to shreds. Hood sat down close to him in a straight-backed chair,
                    crossed his legs, and thrust his hands into his coat pockets.
                "My dear boy, in the name of all the gods at once, cheer up! To satisfy your very natural
                    curiosity, I'll say that I fancied you were in trouble and needed a strong arm to sustain
                    you in your hour of trial. Laudable purposeah, I see you begin to feel more comfortable. I have
                    every intention of playing the big brother to you for a few hours, weeks, or months, or till you
                    come out of your green funk. You wonder,  of course, what motive I have
                    for intruding in this waylying to your servant, and making myself at home in your house. The motive,
                    so far as there is any, is the purely selfish one of finding enjoyment for myself, while
                    incidentally being of service to you. And you're bound to admit that that's a fair
                    offer in this world of greed and selfishness. The great trouble with most of us is that the flavor
                    so soon wears out of the chewing-gum. Do you remember the last time you had a good, hearty laugh?
                    I'll wager you don't!"
                Deering scowled, but Hood continued to expound his philosophy:
                "The world's roaring along at such a rate we can't find happiness anywhere
                    but in the dictionary. It's worrying me to death, just the spectacle of the fool  old human race never getting a chance to sit down by the side of the
                    road and pick the pebbles out of its shoes. Everybody's feet hurt and everybody's
                    carrying a blood pressure that's bound to blow the roof off. I tell you, Deering,
                    civilization hasn't got anything on the gypsies but soap and sanitary plumbing.
                    I'm just forty-five and for years I've kept in motion most of the time. Alone of
                    great travellers William Jennings Bryan has reviewed more water-tanks than I. I find the same
                    delight in Butte, Peoria, Galesburg, Des Moines, Ashtabula, and Bangor, in Tallahassee, Birmingham,
                    and Waco, that others seek in London, Paris, and Viennaand it's all American stuffbusiness
                    of flags flying and Constitution being chanted offstage by a choir of a million voices!  I've lived in coal-camps in Colorado, wintered with Maine
                    lumbermen, hopped the ties with hobos, and enjoyed the friendship of thieves. I don't mean
                    to brag, but I suppose there isn't a really first-rate crook in the country that I
                    don't know. And down in the underworld they look on meif I may modestly say itas an old
                    reliable friend. I've found these contacts immensely instructive, as you may imagine.
                    Don't get nervous! I never stole anything in my life."
                He thrust his fingers into his inside waistcoat pocket, and drew out a packet of bills, neatly
                    folded, and opened them for Deering's wondering inspection.
                "I beg of you don't jump to the conclusion that I roll in wealth. Money is poison
                    to me; I hate the very smell of  ithaven't a cent of my own in
                    the world. This belongs to my chauffeurcarry it as a precaution merely."
                Hood relighted his pipe, and dreamily watched the match blacken and curl in his fingers.
                "Your chauffeur?" Deering suggested, like a child prompting a parent in the midst
                    of an absorbing story.
                "Oh, yes! Cassowary"he pronounced the word lingeringly as though to prolong his
                    pleasure in it"real name doesn't matter. His father rolled up a big wad cutting
                    the forest primeval into lumber, and left it to Cassowarymatter of a million or two. Cassowary had
                    been driven to drink by an unhappy love-affair when I plucked him as a brand from burning Broadway.
                    Nice chap, but too much self-indulgence;  never had any discipline.
                    He's pretty well broken in now, and as we seemed to need each other we follow the long
                    trail together. Manage to hit it off first-rate. He's still mooning over the girl; tough
                    that he can't have the only thing in the world he wants! Obstreperous parent adumbrated in
                    the foreground, shotgun in hand. I don't allow Cassowary to carry any moneywould rather
                    risk contamination myself than expose him to it. If he stays with me for a few years, his
                    accumulated income will roll up so that he can endow orchestras and art museums all through the
                    prairie towns of the West, and become a great benefactor of mankind."
                Hood's story was manifestly absurd, and yet he invested it with a certain  plausibility. Even Cassowary, as Hood described him, seemed a wholly
                    credible person, and the bills Hood had drawn from his pocket bore all the marks of honest money.
                Dinner was announced, and Hood lounged down-stairs and into the dining-room arm in arm with Deering.
                    A tapestry on the wall immediately attracted his attention. After pecking at the edges with his
                    long, slender fingers he turned to his seat with a sigh.
                "Preposterous imitation! I dare say it was passed off as a real Gobelin, but I know the
                    artist who fakes those thingsa New Jersey genius and very smooth at the game."
                Deering had never paid the slightest attention to the tapestry, which had hung in the room for a
                    dozen years,  but he apologized in a vein of irony for its
                    spuriousness, and steeled himself against complaints of the food; but after tasting the soup Hood
                    praised it with enthusiasm. He was wholly at ease, and his table manners were beyond criticism. He
                    seemed indifferent to the construction Deering or the bewildered Briggs might place upon his
                    confessions, to which he now glibly addressed himself.
                "A couple of years ago I was roaming through the Western provinces with a couple of old
                    friends who persistagainst my advice, I assure youin the childish pastime of safe-blowing. We got
                    pinched en bloc, and as I was broke I had to sponge on the yeggs to get me out of
                    jail."
                Briggs dropped a plate and Deering  frowned at the interruption. Hood
                    went on tranquilly:
                "However, I was immured only three weeks, and the experience was broadening. That was in
                    Omaha, and I'll say without fear of contradiction that the Omaha jail is one of the most
                    comfortable in the Missouri Valley. I recommend it, Deering, without reservation, to any one in
                    search of tranquillity. After they turned me loose I introduced myself to an old college
                    classmatefraternity brotherno danger of exposure. I had him put me up at the Omaha Club, and then I
                    gave a dinner to the United States commissioner who heard my case, the district attorney, and the
                    United States marshal. I wanted to ask the yeggs tooit seemed only squarebut the judge was out of
                    town, and  the marshal was afraid his Honor might cite him for contempt
                    if he brought his prisoners to my party. These things probably seem to you most banal, but take it
                    all round I do manage to keep amused. Of course, now and then I pay more for my fun than
                    it's worth. Last summer I mixed in with some moonshiners in Tennessee. Moonshining is
                    almost a lost art, and I wanted the experience before the business became extinct. An unsociable
                    lot, the lone still boys, and wouldn't warm up to me a bit. The unhappy result was a bullet
                    through my left lung. I got patched up by a country doctor, but had to spend two months in a
                    Philadelphia hospital for the finishing touches."
                Deering's uneasiness increased. This man who spoke so blithely of imprisonment  and bullets in his lung must have a motive for his visit. With a jerk
                    of the head he sent Briggs from the room.
                "This is all very amusing," he remarked with decision as he put down his
                    salad-fork, "but will you pardon me for asking just why you came here? I have your own word
                    for it that your favorite a-- is consorting with criminals, and that money you
                    flashed may have been stolen for all I know! If you have any business with me"
                "My dear boy, I don't blame you for growing restless," replied Hood
                    amiably. "Of course, I know that your father and sister are away, and that you are alone.
                    Your family history I am pretty familiar with; your antecedents and connections are excellent. Your
                    mother, who died four years ago, was of  the Rhode Island Ranger
                    familyand there is no better blood in America. Your sister Constance won the Westchester golf
                    championship last yearI learned that from the newspapers, which I read with a certain passion, as
                    you have observed. If I hadn't thought you needed companymy company particularlyI
                    shouldn't have landed on your door-step. You dined Monday night at the Hotel Pendragonat a
                    table in the corner on the Fifth Avenue side, and your dejection touched me deeply. Afterward you
                    went down to the rathskeller, and sat there all alone drinking stuff you didn't need. It
                    roused my apprehensions. I feared things were going badly with you, and I thought I'd give
                    you a chance to unburden your soul to me, Hood, the enchanted hobo"
                
                "For sheer cheek" began Deering hotly.
                Hood lifted his hand deprecatingly.
                "Please don't!" he remarked soothingly. "With the tinkle of a
                    bell you can call your man and have me bounced. I repacked my bag after taking a bath in your very
                    comfortable guest-room, and we can part immediately. But let us be sensible, Deering; just between
                    ourselves, don't you really need me?"
                His tone was ingratiating, his manner the kindest. Deering had walked the streets for two days trying
                    to bring himself to the point of confessing his plight to one of a score of loyal friendsmen he had
                    known from prep-school days, and on through college: active, resourceful, wealthy young fellows who
                    would risk much to help himand yet  in his fear and misery he had
                    shrunk from approaching them. Hood, he was now convinced, was not a detective come to arrest him; in
                    fact his guest's sympathies and connections seemed to lie on the other side of the
                    law's barricade.
                They had coffee in the living-room, where Hood, inspired by specimens of the work of several of the
                    later French painters, discussed art with sophistication. Deering observed him intently. There was
                    something immensely attractive in Hood's face; his profile, clean-cut as a cameo, was
                    thoroughly masculine; his head was finely moulded, and his gray eyes were frank and responsive.
                "It's possible," said Deering, after a long silence in which Hood smoked
                    meditatively, "that you may be able to help me."
                
                On a sudden impulse he rose and put out his hand.
                "Thank you," said Hood gravely, "but don't tell me unless you
                    really want to."
            
            
            
                II
                "SO after all the bother of stealing two hundred thousand dollars' worth of
                    negotiable securities you lost them!" Hood remarked when Deering ended
                    his recital.
                Deering frowned and nodded. Not only had he told his story to this utter stranger, but he had found
                    infinite relief in doing so.
                "Let us go over the points again," said Hood calmly. "You set down your
                    suitcase containing two hundred K. & L. Terminal 5's in the Grand
                    Central Station, turned round to buy a ticket to Boston, and when you picked up the bag it was the
                    wrong one! Such instances  are not rare; the strong family resemblance
                    between suitcases has caused much trouble in this world. Only the other day a literary friend told
                    me the magazine editors have placed a ban on mixed suitcases as a fictional device; but of course
                    that doesn't help us any in this affair. I've known a few professional suitcase
                    lifters. One of the smoothest is Sammy Tibbots, but he's doing time in Joliet, so we may as
                    well eliminate Sammy."
                "No, no!" Deering exclaimed impatiently. "It was a girl who did the trick!
                    She was at the local ticket window, just behind me. You see, I was nervous and after I bought my
                    ticket it dropped to the floor, and while I was picking it up that girl grabbed my suitcase and beat
                    it for the gate."
                
                "Enter the girl," Hood muttered. "'Twas ever thus! Of course, you
                    telegraphed ahead and stopped herthat was the obvious course."
                "There you go! If I'd done that, there wouldn't have been any publicity;
                    oh, no!" Deering replied contemptuously. "People don't carry big bunches
                    of bonds around in suitcases; they send 'em by registered express. Of course, if the girl
                    was honest she'd report the matter to the railroad officials and they'd notify the
                    police, and they'd be looking for the thief! And that's just what I don't
                    want."
                "Of course not," Hood assented readily. "That was Wednesday and this is
                    Friday, and you haven't seen any ads in the papers about a suitcase full of bonds? Well,
                    I'd hardly have  missed such a thing myself. What did the girl
                    look like?"
                "Small, dressed in blue and wearing a white veil. She made a lively sprint for the gate, and
                    climbed into the last car just as the train started. The conductor yelled to her not to try it, but
                    the porter jumped out and pushed her up the steps."
                At Hood's suggestion Deering brought the suitcase that had been exchanged for his own, and
                    disclosed its contentsa filmy night-dress, a silk shirt-waist, a case of ivory toilet articles
                    bearing a complicated monogram, a bottle of violet-water, half empty, a pair of silk stockings, a
                    novel, a pair of patentleather pumps, all tumbled together.
                "The young person left in haste, that's clear enough," remarked Hood,
                    balancing 
                    
                        "The young person left in haste, that's clear enough," remarked
                            Hood.
                    
                     one of the pumps in his hand. "'Bonet,
                    Paris,'" he read, squinting at the lining. "Most deplorable that we have
                    both slippers; one would have been a clew, and we could have spent the rest of our lives measuring
                    footprints. Very nice slippers, though; fastidious young person, I'll wager. The monogram
                    on these trinkets is of no assistanceit might be R. G. T., or T. G. R., or G. R. T. Monograms are a
                    nuisance, a delusion, a snare!"
                Deering flung the faintly scented violet-tinted toilet-case into the bag resentfully.
                "The silly little fool; why didn't she mind what she was doing!" he
                    exclaimed angrily, "and not steal other people's things!"
                "Pardon me," Hood remonstrated,  "but from
                    your story the less you speak of stealing the better. But it isn't clear yet why you
                    sneaked the bonds. Your father has a reputation for generosity; you're an only son and
                    slated to succeed him in the banking-house. Just what was your idea in starting for Boston with the
                    loot?"
                "It was to help Ned Ranscomb, an old pal of mine," Deering blurted"one of
                    the best fellows on earth, who has pulled me out of a lot of holes. He'd taken options on
                    Mizpah Copper for more than he could pay for and fell on my neck to help him out. And the rotten
                    part of it is that I can't find him anywhere! I've telephoned and telegraphed all
                    over creation, but he's fallen off the earth! I tell you everything from the start has gone
                    wrong. I guess  I didn't tell you that I already had a couple
                    of hundred thousand in Mizpahall I could put up personally, and now I've lost the two
                    hundred thousand I stole, and Ned's got cold feet and drowned himself, and here
                    I'm talking about it to a man who may be a crook for all I know!"
                "This disappearance of Ranscomb has a suspicious look," remarked Hood, ignoring the
                    fling. "Either money or a woman, of course."
                "Ranscomb," Deering retorted savagely, "is all business and never fools
                    with women. And you can bet that with this big copper deal on he wouldn't waste time on any
                    girl that ever was born."
                "Human beings are as we find them," observed Hood judicially, "but
                    you're  entirely too tragic about this whole business. If it
                    isn't comedy, it's nothing. I'll wager the girl who skipped with your
                    stolen boodle has a sense of humor. The key-note to her character is in this novel she grabbed as
                    she hastily packed her bag'The Madness of May.' That's one of the
                    drollest books ever written. A story like that is a boon to mankind; it kept me chuckling all night.
                    Haven't read it? Well, the heroine excused herself from a dinner-table that was boring her
                    to death, ran to her room and packed a suitcase, and that was the last her friends saw of her for
                    some time. Along about this season it's in the blood of healthy human beings to pine for
                    clean air and the open road. It's the wanderlust that's in all of us, old and
                    young alike. It's possible  that the young lady who ran off
                    with your bonds felt the spring madness and determined to hit the trail as the girl did in that
                    yarn. Finding herself possessed of a lot of bonds belonging to a stranger, I dare say she is badly
                    frightened. Put yourself in that girl's place, Deeringimagine her feelings, landing
                    somewhere after a hurried journey, opening her suitcase to chalk her nose, and finding herself a
                    thief!"
                "Rot!" sniffed Deering angrily.
                One moment he distrusted Hood; the next his heart warmed to him. At the table the light-hearted
                    adventurer had kept him entertained and amused with his running comment on books, public characters,
                    the world's gold supply, and scrapes he had been in, without dropping any clew to his
                    identity. He seemed to  be a veritable encyclopdia of places;
                    apparently there was not a town in the United States that he hadn't visited, and he spoke
                    of exclusive clubs and thieves' dens in the same breath. But Deering's hopes of
                    gaining practical aid in the search for the lost bonds was rapidly waning.
                "There's no use being silly about this; I'm going to telephone to a
                    detective agency and tell them to send out a good man, right awayto-night-"
                "As you please," Hood assented, "but if you do, you'll regret it
                    to your last hour. I know the whole breed, and you may count on their making a mess of it. And
                    consider for a moment that what you propose means putting a hired bloodhound on the trail of a girl
                    who probably never harmed a kitten in her  life. It would be rotten
                    caddishness to send a policeman after her. It isn't done, Deering; it isn't done!
                    Of course, there's not much chance that the sleuths would ever come within a hundred miles
                    of her, but what if they found her! You are a gentleman, Deering, and that's not the game
                    for you to play."
                "Then tell me a better one! In ten days at the farthest father will be back and what am I
                    going to say to himhow am I going to explain breaking into his safety box and stealing those
                    bonds?"
                "You can't explain it, of course, and it's rather up to you, son, to put
                    'em back. Every hour you spend talking about it is wasted time. That girl's had
                    your suitcase two days, and it's your duty to find her. Something must  have happened or she'd have turned it back to the railroad company. Perhaps
                    she's been arrested as a thief and thrown into jail! Again, her few effects point to a
                    degree of prosperityshe's not a girl who would steal for profit; I'll swear to
                    that. We must find that girl! We'll toss a slipper and start off the way the toe
                    points."
                Indifferent to Deering's snort of disgust, Hood was already whirling the slipper in the air.
                "Slightly northeast! There you are, Deeringthe clear pointing of Fate! The girl
                    wasn't going far or she wouldn't have been in the local ticket line, and even a
                    lady in haste packs more stuff for a long journey. We'll run up to the Barton Armsan
                    excellent inn, and establish headquarters. The girl who  danced off
                    with your two hundred thousand is probably around there somewhere, bringing up her tennis for the
                    first tournaments of the season. Let's be moving; a breath of air will do you
                    good."
                "That's all you can do about it, is it?" demanded Deering. "Let
                    me tell my whole storyput myself in your power, and now the best you can do is to flip a slipper to
                    see which way to start!"
                "Just as good a way as any," remarked Hood amiably.
                He pressed the button, ordered his car, and then led the way back to Deering's room.
                "Throw some things into a bag. You'll soon forget your sordid money affairs and
                    begin to live, and you'd  better be prepared for anything that
                    turns up. I'll fold the coats; some old fishing-togs for rough work and jails, and even
                    your dress suit may come in handy."
                He fell to work, folding the suits neatly, while Deering moved about like a man in a trance,
                    assembling linen and toilet articles.
                "Something tells me we're going to have a pretty good time," continued
                    Hood musingly. "I'll show you untold kingdoms, things that never were on sea or
                    land. We shall meet people worn with the world-old struggle for things they don't need, and
                    who are out in the tender May air looking for happinessthe only business, my dear boy,
                    that's really worth while. And you'll be surprised, son, to find how many such
                    people there are."
                
                "Ah, you're ready, Cassowary!" remarked Hood as they stepped out of the
                    side door where a big touring-car was drawn up in the driveway. "Just a moment till I get
                    my stick."
                Briggs had placed their bags in the car, and Deering had a moment in which to observe the chauffeur,
                    who stood erect and touched his cap. Hood's protg proved to be a tall, dark, well-knit
                    young fellow dressed in a well-fitting chauffeur's costume.
                "It's a good night for a run," Deering suggested, eying the man in the
                    light from the door.
                "Fine, sir."
                "I hope the people in the house took good care of you."
                "Very good, sir."
                There was nothing in Cassowary's  voice or manner to indicate
                    that he was the possessor of the fortune to which Hood had referred so lightly. Deering's
                    hastily formed impressions of Hood's chauffeur were wholly agreeable and satisfying.
                Hood, lingering in the hall, could be heard warning Briggs against the further accumulation of fat.
                    He recommended a new system of reducing, and gave the flushed and stuttering butler the name of a
                    New York specialist in dietetics whom he advised him to consult without delay.
                The chauffeur's lips twitched and, catching Deering's eye, he winked. Deering
                    tapped his forehead. Cassowary shook his head.
                "Don't you believe it!" he ejaculated with spirit.
                
                At this moment Hood appeared on the steps, banging his recovered stick noisily as he descended.
                "The Barton Arms, Cassowary," he ordered, and they set off at a lively clip.
            
            
            
                III
                ON the steps of the Barton Arms an hour later Hood and Deering ran into two men who were just leaving
                    the inn. Hood greeted them heartily as old acquaintances and remained talking to them while Deering
                    went to ask for rooms.
                "The suspicions of those fellows always tickle me," he remarked as he joined
                    Deering at the desk, where he scrawled "R. Hood, Sherwoodville," on the register.
                    "Detectivesrather good as the breed goes, but not men of true vision. Now and then
                    I've been able to give them a useful hintthe slightest, mind you, and only where I could
                    divert suspicion from some of my friends in  the underworld. I always
                    try to be of assistance to predatory genius; there are clever crooks and stupid ones; the kind who
                    stoop to vulgar gun-work when their own stupidity gets them into a tight pinch don't appeal
                    to me. My artistic sensibilities are affronted by clumsy work."
                "Perhaps" Deering suggested with a hasty glance at the door"maybe
                    they're looking for me!"
                "Bless you, no," Hood replied as they followed a boy with their bags;
                    "nothing so intelligent as that. On the contrary"he paused at the landing and laid
                    his hand impressively on Deering's arm"on the contrary, they're looking
                    for me!"
                He went on with a chuckle and a shake of the head, as though the thought  of being pursued by detectives gave him the keenest pleasure. When he reached their rooms he sat
                    down and struck his knee sharply and chuckled again. Deering turned frowningly for an explanation of
                    his mirth.
                "Oh, don't bother about those chaps! I repeat, that they are looking for me,
                    but"he knit his fingers behind his head and grinned"they don't know it!"
                "Don't know you are you!" exclaimed Deering.
                "You never said a truer word! More than that, they're not likely to! There are
                    things, son, IHood, the frankest of mortalscan't tell even you! I, Hood, the inexplicable;
                    Hood, the prince of tramps, the connoisseur in all the artseven I must have my secrets;  but in time, my dear boy, in time you shall know everything! But
                    there's work before us! The long arm of coincidence beckons us. We shall test for ourselves
                    all the claptrap of the highest-priced novelists."
                Deering walked to the window and stared out at the landscape, then strode toward Hood angrily.
                "I don't like this!" he wailed despairingly. "You promised to
                    help me find those stolen bonds, and now you're talking like a lunatic again. If I
                    can't find the bonds, I've got to find Ranscomb, and get back that first two
                    hundred thousand I gave him. I can't stand thisdetectives waiting for us wherever we stop,
                    and you babbling rotrot" Words failed him; he clinched his hands and glared.
                
                "Don't bluster, son, or I shall grow peevish," Hood replied tolerantly.
                    "At the present moment I feel like taking a walk under the mystical May stars. The night
                    invites the soul to meditation; the stars may have the answer to all our perplexities. Stop fretting
                    about your bonds and your friend Ranscomb; very likely he's busted, clean broke;
                    that's what usually happens to fellows who take money from their friends and put it into
                    the metals. Possibly he swallowed poison, and went to sleep forever just to escape your wrath. Let
                    us take counsel of the heavens and try to forget your sins. We must still move the way the slipper
                    pointednortheast. The road bends away from the inn just right for a fresh start. We depart, we skip,
                    we are on our way, my dear boy!"
                
                They had walked nearly a mile when Deering announced that he was tired, and refused to go farther. He
                    clambered upon a stone wall at the roadside. On a high ridge some distance away and etched against
                    the stars was a long, low house.
                "Splendid type of bungalow," Hood commented, throwing his legs over the wall.
                    "I'm glad you have an eye for nice effectsthe roof makes a pretty line against the
                    stars, and those pines beyond add a toucha distinct touch. Bungalows should always be planned with a
                    view to night effects; too bad architects don't always consider little points like
                    that."
                Deering growled angrily. Suddenly as his eyes gazed over the long, sloping meadow that rose to the
                    house he started and laid his hand on Hood's knee.
                
                "Steady, steady! Always give a ghost a chance," murmured Hood.
                If the figure that danced across the meadow was a ghost, it was an agile one, and its costume
                    represented a radical departure from the traditional garb of spirits doomed to walk the night.
                "A boy, kicking up before he goes to bed," suggested Deering, forgetting his
                    sorrows for the moment as he contemplated the dancing apparition.
                "In a clown's suit, if I'm any judge," said Hood, jumping down
                    from the wall and moving cautiously up the slope. The dancing figure suddenly darted away through a
                    clump of trees.
                "Of course," remarked Hood when they had reached the level where the figure had
                    executed its fantastic gyrations, "of course, it's none of our affair;  but, in that story I was telling you about, the heroine danced around
                    at night in strange costumes scaring people to death. I'm not saying this ghost has read
                    that bookI'm merely stating a fact."
                They found a path that zigzagged across the meadow and followed it to the edge of a ravine. Below
                    they heard the ripple of running water; and as an agreeable accompaniment some one was whistling
                    softly.
                In a moment the rattle of loosened gravel caused them to drop down by the path. The pantalooned
                    figure came up, still whistling, and paused for a moment to take breath. Deering, throwing himself
                    back from the path, grasped a bush. The twigs rattled noisily, and with a frightened
                    "Oh!" the clown darted away, nimbly and fleetly. They  followed a white blur in the starlight for an instant and heard the patter of light feet.
                "A girl," whispered Deering.
                "I believe you are right," remarked Hood, feeling about in the grass, "and
                    here's a part of her costume." He picked up something white and held it to his
                    face. "She dropped her clown's cap when you began shaking the scenery. I seem to
                    remember that a girl's hair is sweet like that! In old times the clown's cap was
                    supposed to possess magic. Son, we have begun well! A girl masquerading, happy victim of the May
                    madnessthis is the jolliest thing I've struck in yearsa girl, out dancing all by her
                    lonesome under the starsColumbine playing Harlequin!"
                "We might as well be off," he added,  relighting his
                    pipe. "We frightened her ladyship, and she will dance no more to-night. However, we have
                    her cap, which points the way for to-morrow's work."
                "You're going to hang around here watching a girl cut monkey-shines!"
                    moaned Deering. "You haven't forgotten what we're looking for, have
                    you!" he demanded, shaking his fist in Hood's face.
                "Once more, be calm! Don't you see that you're on the verge of a new
                    'Midsummer Night's Dream'; that the world's tired of work and
                    gone back to play! Don't talk like a tired business man whose wife has dragged him to see
                    one of Ibsen's frolics'Rosmersholm,' for examplewhere they talk for three
                    hours and then jump in the well! The  fact that there's one
                    girl left in the world to dance under stars ought to hearten you for anything. We don't
                    find in this world the things we're looking for, Deering; we've got to be ready
                    for surprises. I won't say that that's the girl who ran off with your bonds; all I
                    can say is that she's as likely to be the one as any girl I can think of. Tut!
                    Don't imagine I don't sympathize with you in your troubles; but forget them,
                    that's the ticket. This will do for tonight. We'd better go back to the Barton and
                    to bed."
                He yawned sleepily and started toward the road. Deering caught him by the arm.
                "I was just thinking" he began.
                "Thinking is a bad habit, my boy. Thought is the curse of the world. The  less thinking we do the better off we are. Down at Pass Christian last
                    winter I sat under a tree for a solid month and never thought a think. Most profitable time I ever
                    spent in my life. Camped with a sneak-thief who was making a tour of the Southern resortsnice chap;
                    must tell you about him sometime."
                He chuckled as though the recollection of his larcenous companion  eased him tremendously.
                "I don't believe I'll go back to the Barton just yet," Deering
                    suggested timidly. "It's possible, you know, that that girl might"
                "You've got it!" exclaimed Hood eagerly, clapping his hands upon
                    Deering's shoulders. "The spell is taking hold! Wait here a thousand years if you
                    like for that kid to come back, and  don't bother about me.
                    But cut out your vulgar bond twaddle, and don't ask her if she stole your suitcase! As like
                    as not she'll lead you to the end of the rainbow, and show you a meal sack bulging with
                    red, red gold. Here's her capbetter keep it for good luck."
                Deering stood, with the clown's cap in his hand, staring after Hood's retreating
                    figure. It was not wholly an illusion that he had experienced a change of some sort, and he wondered
                    whether there might not be something in Hood's patter about the May madness. At any rate,
                    his troubles had slipped from him, and he was conscious of a new and delightful sense of freedom.
                    Moreover, he had been kidnapped by the oddest man he had ever met, and he didn't care!
            
            
            
                IV
                BEYOND the bungalow rose a dark strip of woodland, and suddenly, as Deering's eyes caught
                    sight of it, he became aware that the moon, which had not appeared before that night, seemed to be
                    lingering cosily among the trees. Even a victim of May madness hardly sees moons where they do not
                    exist, but to all intents and purpose this was a moon, a large round moon, on its
                    way down the horizon in the orderly fashion of elderly moons. He turned toward the road, then
                    glanced back quickly to make sure his eyes were not playing tricks upon him. The moon was still
                    there, blandly staring. His powers of orientation had often been tested; on  hunting and fishing trips he had ranged the wilderness without a compass, and never
                    come to grief. He was sure that this huge orb was in the north, where no moon of decent habits has
                    any right to be.
                With his eyes glued to this phenomenon, he advanced up the slope. When he reached the crest of the
                    meadow the moon still hung where he had first seen ita most unaccountable moon that apparently
                    lingered to encourage his investigations.
                He jumped a wall that separated the meadow from the woodland, and advanced resolutely toward the
                    lunar mystery. He found Stygian darkness in among the pines: the moon, considering its size, shed
                    amazingly little light. He crept toward it warily, and in a moment 
                    stood beneath the outward and visible form of a moon cleverly contrived of barrel staves and
                    tissue-paper with a lighted lantern inside, and thrust into the crotch of a tree.
                As he contemplated it something struck himsomething, he surmised, that had been flung by mortal hand,
                    and a pine-cone caught in his waistcoat collar.
                "Please don't spoil my moon," piped a voice out of the darkness.
                    "It's a lot of trouble to make a moon!"
                Walking cautiously toward the wall, he saw, against the star dusk of the open, the girl in clown
                    costume who had danced in the meadow. She sat the long way of the wall, her knees clasped
                    comfortably, and seemed in nowise disturbed by his appearance.
                "I beg your pardon," he said, "but  I
                    didn't know it was your moon. I thought it was just the regular old moon
                    that had got lost on the way home."
                "Oh, don't apologize. I rather hoped somebody would come up to have a look at it;
                    but you'd better run along now. This is private property, you know."
                "Thanks for the hint," he remarked. "But on a night when moons hang in
                    trees you can't expect me to be scared away so easily. And besides, I'm an
                    outlaw," he ended in a tone meant to be terrifying.
                She betrayed neither surprise nor fear, but laughed and uttered a "Really!" that
                    was just such a "really" as any well-bred girl might use at a tea, or anywhere
                    else that reputable folk congregate,  to express faint surprise. Her
                    way of laughing was altogether charming. A girl who donned a clown's garb for night
                    prowling and manufactured moons for her own amusement could not have laughed otherwise, he
                    reflected.
                "A burglar?'" she suggested with mild curiosity.
                "Not professionally; but I'm seriously thinking of going in for it. What do you
                    think of burgling as a career?"
                "InterestingratherI should think," she replied after a moment's
                    hesitation, as though she were weighing his suggestion carefully.
                "And highway robbery appeals to merather. It's more picturesque, and you
                    wouldn't have to break into houses. I think I'd rather work in the open."
                
                "The chances of escape might be better," she admitted; "but you
                    needn't try the bungalow down there, for there's nothing in it worth stealing. I
                    give you my word for that!"
                "Oh, I hadn't thought of the bungalow. I had it in mind to begin by holding up a
                    motor. Nobody's doing that sort of thing just now."
                "Capital!" she murmured pleasantly, as though she found nothing extraordinary in
                    the idea. "So you're really new at the game."
                "Well, I've stolen before, if that's what you mean, but
                    I didn't get much fun out of it. I suppose after the first fatal plunge the rest will come
                    easier."
                "I dare say that's true," she assented. There was real witchery in the
                    girl's light, murmurous laugh.
                
                It seemed impossible to surprise her; she was taking him as a matter of courseas though sitting on a
                    wall at night, and talking to a strange young man about stealing was a familiar experience.
                "I've joined Robin Hood's band," he continued. "At least
                    I've been adopted by a new sort of Robin Hood who's travelling round robbing the
                    rich to pay the poor, and otherwise meddling in people's affairsthe old original Robin Hood
                    brought up to date. If it hadn't been for him I might be cooling my heels in jail right
                    now. He's an expert on jailsbeen in nearly every calaboose in America. He's tucked
                    me under his wingpersuaded me to take the highway, and not care a hang for anything."
                "How delightful!" she replied, but so  slowly that he
                    began to fear that his confidences had alarmed her. "That's too good to be true;
                    you're fooling, aren't youreally?"
                His eyes had grown accustomed to the light, and her profile was now faintly limned in the dusk. Hers
                    was the slender face of youth. The silhouette revealed the straightest of noses and the firmest of
                    little chins. She was young, so young that he felt himself struggling in an immeasurable gulf of
                    years as he watched her. Apparently such sophistication as she possessed was in the things of the
                    world of wonder, the happy land of make-believe.
                "Keats would have liked a night like this," she said gently.
                Deering was silent. Keats was a person whom he knew only as the subject 
                    of a tiresome lecture in his English course at college.
                "Bill Blake would have adored it, but he would have had lambs in the pasture," she
                    added.
                "Bill Blake?" he questioned. "Do you mean Billy Blake who was halfback on
                    the Harvard eleven last year?"
                She tossed her head and laughed merrily.
                "I love that!" she replied lingeringly, as though to prolong her joy in his
                    ignorance. "I was thinking of a poet of that name who wrote a nice verse something like
                    this:
                
                    'I give you the end of a golden string;
                    Only wind it into a ball,
                    It will lead you in at Heaven's gate,
                    Built in Jerusalem's wall.'"
                
                No girl had ever quoted poetry to him before, and he was thinking more 
                    of her pretty way of repeating the stanzakeeping time with her handsthan of the verse itself.
                "Well," he said, "what's the rest of it?"
                "Oh, there isn't any rest of it! Don't you see that there
                    couldn't be anything morethat it's finisheda perfect little poem all by
                    itself!"
                He played with a loosened bit of stone, meekly conscious of his stupidity. And he did not like to
                    appear stupid before a girl who danced alone in the starlight and hung moons in trees.
                "I'm afraid I don't get it. I'd a lot rather stay by this wall
                    talking to you than go to Jerusalem."
                "You'd be foolish to do that if you really had the end of the golden string, and
                    could follow it to Paradise. I think  it means any nice placejust any
                    place where happiness is."
                He was not getting on, and to gain time he bade her repeat the stanza.
                "I think I understand now; I've never gone in much for poetry, you know,"
                    he explained humbly.
                "Burglars are natural poets, I suppose," she continued. "A burglar just
                    has to have imagination or he can't climb through the window of a house he has never seen
                    before. He must imagine everything perfectlythe silver on the sideboard, the watch under the pillow,
                    and the butler stealing down the back stairs with a large, shiny pistol in his hand."
                "Certainly," Deering agreed readily. "And if he runs into a policeman on
                    the way out he's got to imagine that  it's an old
                    college friend and embrace him."
                "You mustn't spoil a pretty idea that way!" she admonished in a tone that
                    greatly softened the rebuke. "Come to think of it, you haven't told me your name
                    yet; of course, if you become a burglar, you will have a great number of names, but I'd
                    like awfully to know your true one."
                "Why?" he demanded.
                "Because you seem nice and well brought up for a burglar, and I liked your going up to the
                    moon and poking your finger into it. That makes me feel that I'd like to know
                    you."
                "Well, the circumstances being as they are, and being really a thief, you mustn't
                    ask me to tell my real name; for all I know you may be a detective in disguise."
                
                "I'm notreally," she saidhe found her "reallys"
                    increasingly enchanting.
                "You might call me Friar Tuck or Little John. I'm travelling with Robin Hood, you
                    remember."
                "Mr. Tuckthat will be splendid!"
                "And now that you know my name it's only fair to tell me yours."
                "Pierrette," she answered.
                "Not really!"
                His unconscious imitation of her manner of uttering this phrase evoked another merry laugh.
                "Yes, really," she answered.
                "And you live somewhere, of coursenot in the tree up there with your moon, but in the
                    bungalow, I suppose."
                "I live wherever I am; that's the fun of playing all the time," she
                    replied evasively. "Poste restante, the Little Dipper. How do you like
                    that?"
                
                "But just now your true domicile is the bungalow?" he persisted.
                "Oh, I've been stopping there for a few days, that's all. I
                    haven't any homenot really," she added as though she found her homelessness the
                    happiest of conditions. She snapped her fingers and recited:
                
                    "Wherever stars shine brightest, there my home shall be,
                    In the murmuring forest or by the sounding sea,
                    With overhead the green bough and underfoot the grass,
                    Where only dreams and butterflies ever dare to pass!"
                
                "Is that Keats or Blake?" he ventured timidly.
                "It's me, you goose! But it's only an imitationwhy,
                    Stevenson, of course, and pretty punk as you ought to know. Gracious!"
                
                She jumped down from the wall, on the side toward the bungalow, and stared up at the tree she had
                    embellished with her moon.
                "The moon's gone out, and I've got to go in!"
                "Please, before you go, when can I see you again?"
                "Who knows!" she exclaimed unsympathetically; but she waited as though pondering
                    the matter.
                "But I must see you again!" he persisted.
                "Oh, I shouldn't say that it was wholly essential to your happinessor mine! I
                    can't meet burglarssocially!"
                "Burglars! But I'm not" he cried protestingly.
                She bent toward him with one hand extended pleadingly.
                
                "Don't say it! Don't say it! If you say you're
                        not, you won't be any fun any more!"
                "Well, then we'll say I ama terrible freebootera bold, bad pirate," he
                    growled. "Now, may I come?"
                She mused a moment, then struck her hands together.
                "Come to the bungalow breakfast; that's a fine idea!"
                "And may I bring Hood?" he asked, leaning half-way across the wall in his anxiety
                    to conclude the matter before she escaped. "He's my boss, you understand, and
                    I'm afraid I can't shake him."
                "Certainly; bring Mr. Hood. Breakfast at eight."
                "And your homeyour addressis there in the bungalow?"
                
                "I've told you where my home is, in a verse I made up specially; and my address is
                    care of the Little Dipperthere it is, up there in the sky, all nice and silvery."
                His gaze followed the pointing of her finger. The Little Dipper, as an address for the use of
                    mortals, struck him as rather remote. To his surprise she advanced to the wall, rested her hands
                    upon it, and peered into his face.
                "Isn't this perfectly killing?" she asked in a tone wholly different from
                    that in which she had carried on her share of the colloquy.
                He experienced an agreeable thrill as it flashed upon him that this was no child, but a young woman
                    who, knowing the large world, had suddenly awakened to a consciousness that encounters  with strange young men by starlight were not to be prolonged forever.
                    In the luminous dusk he noted anew the delicate perfectness of her face, the fine brow about which
                    her hair had tumbled from her late exertions. Her eyes searched his face with honest curiosityfor an
                    instant only.
                Then she stepped back, as though to mark a return to her original character, and answered her own
                    question with an air of amused conviction:
                "It is perfectly killing!"
                His hand fumbled the cap in his pocket.
                "Here's something I found down yonderyour clown's cap."
                She took it with a murmur of thanks, and darted away toward the bungalow. He heard her light step on
                    the veranda  and then a door closed with a sharp bang.
                Deering walked back to the inn with his head high and elation throbbing in his pulses. He observed
                    groups of people playing bridge in the inn parlor, and he was filled with righteous contempt for
                    them. The May air had changed his whole nature. He was not the William B. Deering who had meditated
                    killing himself a few hours earlier. A new joy had entered into him; he was only afraid now that he
                    might not live forever!
                Hood slept tranquilly, his bed littered with the afternoon's New York papers which evidently
                    he had been scissoring when he fell asleep. Deering's attitude toward the strange vagrant
                    had changed since his meeting  with Pierrette. Hood might be as mad as
                    the traditional hatter, and yet there was somethingindubitably somethingabout the man that set him
                    apart from the common run of mortals.
                Deering lay awake a long time rejoicing in his new life, and when he dreamed it was of balloon-like
                    moons cruising lazily over woods and fields, pursued by innumerable Pierrettes in spotted trousers
                    and pointed caps.
            
            
            
                V
                HE awoke at seven, and looked in upon Hood, who lay sprawled upon his bed reading one of the battered
                    volumes of Borrow he carried in his bag.
                "Get your tub, son; I've had mine and came back to bed to let you have your sleep
                    out. Marvellous manBorrow. Spring's the time to read him. We'll have some
                    breakfast and go out and see what the merry old world has to offer."
                With nice calculation he tossed the book into the open bag on the further side of the room, rose, and
                    stretched himself. Deering stifled an impulse to scoff at his silk pajamas as hardly an appropriate
                    sleeping garb for one who professed  to have taken vows of poverty.
                    Hood noted his glance.
                "Found these in some nabob's house at Bar Harbor last fall. Went up in November,
                    after all the folks had gone, to have a look at the steely blue ocean; camped in a big cottage for a
                    few days. Found a drawer full of these things and took the pink ones. Wrote my thanks on the
                    villa's stationery and pinned 'em to the fireplace. I hate to admit it, son, but I
                    verily believe I could stand a little breakfast."
                "We're going out for breakfast," Deering remarked with affected
                    carelessness. "I accepted an invitation for you last night. A girl up there at the bungalow
                    asked me; I told her about you, and she seemed willing to stand for it."
                
                "The thought pleases me! You are certainly doing well, my boy!" Hood replied,
                    dancing about on one foot as he drew a sock on the other.
                He explained that a man should never sit down while dressing; that the exercise he got in balancing
                    himself was of the greatest value as a stimulus to the circulation.
                "She's a very nice girl, I think," Deering continued, showing his lathered
                    face at the bathroom door.
                He hadn't expected Hood to betray surprise, and he was not disappointed in the
                    matter-of-course fashion in which his companion received the invitation.
                "Breakfast is the one important meal of the day," Hood averred as he executed a
                    series of hops in his efforts to land inside his trousers. "All great adventures  should be planned across breakfast tables; centrepiece of cool fruits;
                    coffee of teasing fragrance, the toast crisp; an egg perhaps, if the morning labors are to be
                    severe. I know a chap in Boston who cuts out breakfast altogether. Most melancholy person I ever
                    knew; peevish till one o'clock, then throws in a heavy lunch that ruins him for the rest of
                    the day. What did you say the adorable's name was?"
                "Pierrette," Deering spluttered from the tub.
                "Delightful!" cried Hood, flourishing his hair-brushes. "Then you met the
                    dancing-girl! I must say"
                "She had hung a moon in a tree! I followed the moon and found the girl!"
                "Always the way; it never fails," Hood commented, as though the finding  of the girl had fully justified his philosophy of life. "But
                    we can't fool away much time at the bungalow; we've got a lot to do
                    to-day."
                "Time!" cried Deering, "I'm going to stay forever! You
                    can't expect me to find a girl whose post-office address is the Little Dipper, and then go
                    coolly off and forget about her!"
                "That's the right spirit, son," Hood remarked cautiously; "but
                    we'll see. I'll have a look at her and decide what's best for you. My
                    business right now is to keep you out of trouble. You can't tell about these moon girls;
                    she may have a wart on her nose when you see her in daylight."
                Deering hooted.
                "And she probably has parents who may not relish the idea of having two  strange men prowling about the premises looking for breakfast. There are still a few of
                    those old-fashioned people left in the world. It may be only a backdoor hand-out for us, but
                    I've sawed wood for breakfast before now. I'll wait for you below; I want to see
                    how old Cassowary's standing the racket. The boy seemed a little cheerfuller last
                    night."
                They walked to the bungalow which, to Deering's relief, was still perched on the ridge as he
                    had left it. He was beset with misgivings as they entered the gate and followed a hedge-lined path
                    that rose gradually to the house; it might be a joke after all; but Hood's manner was
                    reassuring. He swung his stick and praised the landscape, and when they reached the veranda banged
                         the knocker noisily. A capped and aproned maid opened the door
                    immediately.
                Deering, struck with cowardice, found his legs quaking and stepped back to allow Hood to declare
                    their purpose.
                "We have come for breakfast, lass," Hood announced, "and have brought our
                    appetites with us if that fact interests you."
                "You are expected," said the maid; "breakfast will be served
                    immediately."
                She led the way across a long livingroom to the dining-room beyond, where a table was set for three.
                    The tangible presence of the third plate caused Deering's heart to thump.
                "The host or hostess?" Hood inquired as the girl waited for them to be seated.
                
                "The lady of the house wished me to say that she would be herein spirit! Pressing duties
                    called her elsewhere."
                Deering's spirits sank. Pierrette, then, was only a dream of the night, and had never had
                    the slightest intention of meeting him at breakfast! The maid curtsied and vanished through a swing
                    door.
                Hood, accepting the situation as he found it, expressed his satisfaction as a bowl of strawberries
                    was placed on the table, and as the door ceased swinging behind the maid, laid his hand on
                    Deering's arm. "Don't worry; mere shyness has driven our divinity away:
                    you can see for yourself that even a girl who hangs moons in trees might shrink from the shock of a
                    daylight meeting with a gentleman she had found amusing by  starlight.
                    Let it suffice that she provided the breakfast according to schedulethat's highly
                    encouraging. With strawberries at present prices she has been generous. This little disappointment
                    merely adds zest to the adventure."
                The hand of the maid as she changed his plate at once interested Deering. It was a slender, supple,
                    well-kept hand, browned by the sun. Her maid's dress was becoming; her cap merely served to
                    invite attention to her golden-brown hair. Her coloring left nothing for the heart to desire, and
                    her brown eyes called immediately for a second glance. She was deft and quick; her graceful walk in
                    itself compelled admiration. As the door closed upon her, Hood bent a look of inquiry upon his
                    brooding companion.
                
                "Perhaps she's the adorablethe true, authentic Pierrette," he suggested.
                Deering shook his head.
                "No; the other girl was not so tall and her voice was different; it was wonderfully sweet
                    and full of laughter. I couldn't be fooled about it."
                "There's mystery herea game of some kind. Mark the swish of silken skirts; unless
                    my eyes fail me, I caught a glimpse of silken hose as she flitted into the pantry."
                When an omelet had been served and the coffee poured (she poured coffee charmingly!) Hood called her
                    back as she was about to leave them.
                "Two men should never be allowed to eat alone. If your mistress is not returning at once,
                    will you not do us the honor to sit down with us?"
                
                "Thank you, sir," she said, biting her lip to conceal a smile.
                Deering was on his feet at once and drew out the third chair, which she accepted without debate. She
                    composedly folded her arms on the edge of the table as though she were in nowise violating the rules
                    set down for the guidance of waitresses. Hood, finding the situation to his taste, blithely assumed
                    the lead in the conversation.
                "It is perfectly proper for you to join us at table," he remarked, "but
                    formal introductions would not be in keeping. Still, your employer doubtless has some familiar name
                    for you, and you might with propriety tell us what it is, so we won't need to attract your
                    attention by employing the vulgar 'Say' or 'Listen'!"
                "My mistress calls me Babette," she  answered, her
                    lashes drooping becomingly.
                "Perfect!" cried Hood ecstatically. "And we are two outlaws whose names it
                    is more discreet for us to withhold, even if it were proper to exchange names with a mere
                    housemaid."
                Deering winced; it was indecent in Hood to treat her as though she were a housemaid when so obviously
                    she was not.
                "My friend doesn't mean to be rude," he explained; "the morning
                    air always makes him a little delirious."
                "I hope I know my place," the girl replied, "and I'm sure you
                    gentlemen mean to be kind."
                "You needn't count the spoons after we leave," said Hood; "I
                    assure you we have no professional designs on the house."
                
                "Thank you, sir. Of course, if you stole anything, it would be taken out of my
                    wages."
                Deering's interest in her increased.
                She rested her chin on her hand just as his sister often did when they lingered together at table. He
                    was a good brother and Constance was his standard. He was sure that Constance would like
                    Pierrette's maid. He resented Hood's patronizing attitude toward the girl, but
                    Hood's spirits were soaring and there was no checking him.
                "Babette," he began, "I'm going to trouble you with a question,
                    not doubting you will understand that my motives are those of a philosopher whose whole life has
                    been devoted to the study of the human race. May I ask you to state in all sincerity whether you
                    consider  apple sauce the essential accompaniment of roast
                    duck?"
                "I do not; nor do I care for jelly with venison," she answered readily.
                "Admirable! You are clearly no child of convention but an independent thinker! May I smoke?
                    Thanks!"
                He drew out his pipe and turned beaming to the glowering Deering.
                "There, my boy! Babette is one of usone of the great company of the stars! Wonderful, how
                    you find them at every turn! Babette, my sister, I salute you!"
                She smiled and turned toward Deering.
                "Are you, too, one of the Comrades of Perpetual Youth?" she inquired gravely.
                "I am," Deering declared heartily,  and they smiled at
                    each other; "but I'm only a novicea brother of the second class."
                She shook her head.
                "There can be no question of classes in the great comradeshipeither we are or we are
                    not."
                "Well spoken!" Hood assented, pushing back his chair and crossing his legs
                    comfortably.
                "And youdo you and Pierrette think about things the same way?" Deering asked.
                "We doby not thinking," Babette replied. "Thinking among the comrades is
                    forbidden, is it not?"
                "Absolutely," Hood affirmed. "Our young brother here is still a little
                    weak in the faith, but he's taking to it splendidly."
                
                "I'm new myself," Babette confessed.
                "You're letter-perfect in the part," said Hood. "Perhaps you were
                    driven to it? Don't answer if you would be embarrassed by a confession."
                The girl pondered a moment; her face grew grave, and she played nervously with the sugar-tongs.
                "A man loved me and I sent him away, and was sorry!" The last words fell from her
                    lips falteringly.
                "He will come backif he is worthy of one of the comradeship," said Hood
                    consolingly. "Even now he may be searching for you."
                "I was unkind to him; I was very hard on him! And I've been afraidsometimesthat I
                    should never see him again."
                Deering thought he saw a glint of  tears in her eyes. She rose hastily
                    and asked with a wavering smile:
                "If there's nothing further"
                "Not foodif you mean that," said Hood.
                "But about Pierrette!" Deering exclaimed despairingly. "If she's
                    likely to come, we must wait for her."
                "I rather advise you against it," the girl answered. "I have no idea when
                    she will come back."
                They rose instinctively as she passed out. The door fanned a moment and was still.
                "Well?" demanded Deering ironically.
                "Please don't speak to me in that tone," responded Hood. "This
                    was your breakfast, not mine; you needn't scold me if it didn't go to suit you!
                    Ah, what have we here!"
                
                He had drawn back a curtain at one end of the dining-room, disclosing a studio beyond. It was
                    evidently a practical workshop and bore traces of recent use. Deering passed him and strode toward
                    an easel that supported a canvas on which the paint was still wet. He cried out in astonishment:
                "That's the moon girlthat's the girl I talked to last nightclown clothes
                    and all! She's sitting on the wall there just as I found her."
                "A sophisticated brush; no amateur's job," Hood muttered, squinting at the
                    canvas. "Seems to me I've seen that sort of thing somewhere latelyPantaloon,
                    Harlequin, Columbine, and Clownlatest fad in magazine covers. We're in the studio of a
                    popular illustratorthere's a bunch of proofs on the table, and those things on the floor
                    are from  the same hand. Signature in the corner a trifle obscureMary
                    B. Taylor."
                "She may be Babette," Deering suggested. "Suppose I call her and
                    ask?"
                Hood, having become absorbed in a portfolio of pen-and-ink sketches of clowns, harlequins, and
                    columbines, subjects in which the owner of the studio apparently specialized, paid no heed to the
                    suggestion. When Deering returned he was gazing critically at a sketch showing a dozen clowns
                    executing a spirited dance on a garden-wall.
                "She's skipped! There isn't a soul on the place," Deering
                    announced dejectedly.
                "Not at all surprising; probably gone to join her model, Pierrette. And we'd better
                    clear out before we learn too much; life ceases to be interesting when you begin to find the answers
                    to riddles.
                
                Pierrette is probably a friend of the artist, and plays model for the fun of it. The same girl is
                    repeated over and over again in these drawingsfrom which I argue that Pierrette likes to pose and
                    Babette enjoys painting her. We mustn't let this affect the general illusion. The next turn
                    of the road will doubtless bring us to something that can't be explained so
                    easily."
                "If it doesn't bring us to Pierrette" began Deering.
                "Tut! None of that! For all you know it may bring us to something infinitely better.
                    Remember that this is mid-May, and anything may happen before June kindles the crimson ramblers. Let
                    us be off."
                Half-way across the living-room Deering stopped suddenly.
                
                "My bagmy suitcase!" he shouted.
                A suitcase it was beyond question, placed near the door as though to arrest their attention. Deering
                    pounced upon it eagerly and flung it open.
                "It's all rightthe stuff's here!" he cried huskily.
                He began throwing out the packets that filled the case, glancing hurriedly at the seals. Hood lounged
                    near, watching him languidly.
                "Most unfortunate," he remarked, noting the growing satisfaction on
                    Deering's face as he continued his examination. "Now that you've found
                    that rubbish, I suppose there'll be no holding you; you'll go back to listen to
                    the ticker just when I had begun to have some hope of you!"
                "It was Pierrette that took it; it  couldn't have been
                    this artist girl," said Deering, excitedly whipping out his penknife and slitting one of
                    the packages. A sheaf of blank wrappingpaper fluttered to the floor. His face whitened and he gave a
                    cry of dismay. "Robbed! Tricked!" he groaned, staring at Hood.
                Hood picked up the paper and scrutinized the seal.
                "S. J. Deering, personal," he read in the wax. "You don't suppose
                    that girl has taken the trouble to forge your father's private seal, do you?"
                Deering feverishly tore open the other packages.
                "All alike; the stuff's gone!"
                Perspiration beaded his forehead. He stared stupidly at the worthless paper.
                "You ought to be grateful, son," said  Hood;
                    "yesterday you thought yourself a thiefnow that load's off your mind, and you know
                    yourself for an honest man. General rejoicing seems to be in order. Looks as though your parent had
                    robbed himselfrather a piquant situation, I must say."
                He carried the wrappers to the window-seat and examined them more closely.
                "Seals were all intact. 'The Tyringham estate,' " he read
                    musingly. "What do you make of that?" he asked Deering, who remained crumpled on
                    the floor beside the suitcase.
                "That's an estate father was executor ofit's a long story. Old man
                    Tyringham had been a customer of his, and left a will that made it impossible to close the estate
                    till his son had reached  a certain age. The final settlement was to
                    be made this summer. But my God, Hood, do you suppose fathermy father could be"
                "A defaulter?" Hood supplied blandly.
                "It's impossible!" roared Deering. "Father's the very
                    soul of honor."
                "I dare say he is," remarked Hood carelessly. "So were you till greed led
                    you to pilfer your governor's strong box. Let us be tolerant and withhold judgment.
                    It's enough that your own skirts are clear. Put that stuff out of sight; we must
                    flit."
                Hood set off for the Barton Arms at a brisk pace, talking incessantly.
                "This whole business is bully beyond my highest expectations. By George, it's
                    almost too good to be true! Critics  of the drama complain that the
                    average amateur's play ends with every act; but so far in our adventures every incident
                    leads on to something else. Perfectly immense that somebody had beaten you to the bonds!"
                Deering's emotions were beyond utterance. It was a warm morning, and he did not relish
                    carrying the suitcase, whose recovery had plunged him into a despair darker than that caused by its
                    loss.
                At a turn in the road Hood paused, struck his stick heavily upon the ground, and drew out the
                    slipper. He whirled it in the air three times and twice it pointed east. He thrust it back into his
                    pocket with a sigh of satisfaction and brushed the dust from his hands.
                "Once more we shall follow the pointing  slipper. Yesterday it
                    led us to the moon girl, the bungalow, and the suitcase; now it points toward the mysterious east,
                    and no telling what new delights!"
            
            
            
                VI
                HOOD and Deering found Cassowary sitting in the machine in the inn yard reading a newspaper; this
                    Hood promptly seized and scanned with his trained eye.
                "Are the bags aboard? Ah, I see you have been forehanded, Cassowary!"
                Deering went to the inn office and came out with a number of telegrams which he read as he slowly
                    crossed the yard.
                "What do you think of this?" he asked weakly. The yellow sheets shook in his hand
                    and his face was white. "I wired to a bank and a club in San Francisco last night, and
                    they've answered that father isn't in San Francisco and  hasn't been there! And I wired the people Constance was to visit at Pasadena,
                    and they don't know anything about her. Just look at these things!"
                "Sounds like straight information, but why worry?" remarked Hood, scanning the
                    telegrams.
                "But why should father lie to me? Why should Constance say she was going to California if
                    she wasn't?"
                "My dear boy, don't ask me such questions!" Hood remarked with an injured
                    air. "You are guilty of the gravest error in sending telegrams without consulting me! How
                    can we trust ourselves to Providence if you persist in sending telegrams! If you do this again, I
                    shall be seriously displeased, and you mustn't displease Hood. Hood is very ugly in his
                    wrath."
                
                Deering was at the point of tears. Hood was a fool, and he wished to tell him so, but the words stuck
                    in his throat.
                "We move eastward toward the Connecticut border, Cassowary," Hood ordered and
                    pushed Deering into the machine.
                Hood was as merry as the morning itself, and talked ceaselessly as they rolled through the country,
                    occasionally bidding Cassowary slow down and give heed to his discourse. The chauffeur listened with
                    a grin, glancing guardedly at Deering, who stared grimly ahead with an unlighted cigar in his mouth.
                    He was not to be disturbed in his meditations upon the blackness of the world by the idiotic prattle
                    of a madman. For half an hour Hood had  been describing his adventures
                    with a Dublin University man, whose humor he pronounced the keenest and most satisfying he had ever
                    known. He had gathered from this person an immense fund of lore relating to Irish superstitions.
                "He left me just when I had learned to love him," Hood concluded mournfully.
                    "Became fascinated with a patent-medicine faker we struck at a county fair in Indiana. He
                    was so tickled over the way the long-haired doctor played the banjo and jollied the crowd that he
                    attached himself to his caravan. That Irishman was one of the most agreeable men to be in jail with
                    that I ever knew; even hardened murderers would cotton to him. That spire over there must be
                    Addington.
                
                The inn is nothing to boast of, but we'd better tackle it."
                His gayety at luncheon once more won Deering to a cheerier view of his destiny. Hood called for the
                    proprietor and lectured him roundly for offering canned-blueberry pie. The fact that blueberries
                    were out of season made no difference to the outraged Hood; pie produced from a can was a gross
                    imposition. He cited legal decisions covering such cases and intimated that he might bring
                    proceedings. As the innkeeper strode angrily away an elderly woman at a neighboring table addressed
                    the dining-room on the miserable incompetence of the pastry-cooks of these later times, winding up
                    by thanking Hood heartily for his protest. She was from Boston, she announced, and the declining  intellectual life of that city she attributed to the deterioration of
                    its pie.
                Hood rose and gravely replied in a speech of five minutes, much to the delight of two girls at the
                    old lady's table. Hood wrote his name on the menu card, and bade the giggling waitress hand
                    it to the lady from Boston. Her young companions conferred for a moment, and then sent back a card
                    on which appeared these names neatly pencilled:
                
                    MAID MARLAN
                    
                    THE QUEEN OF SHEBA
                    
                    THE DUCHESS OF SUFFOLK (MASS.)
                
                "My dear boy," Hood remarked to Deering after he had bowed elaborately to the trio,
                    "I tell you the whole world's caught step with us! That lady and her two nieces,
                    or granddaughters as the case may be, are under the spell, just  as
                    you and I are and Cassowary and your Pierrette and Babette of the bungalow. If only you could yield
                    yourself to the May spirit, how happy we might be! Just think of Cassowary; worth a million dollars
                    and eating his lunch with the chauffeurs somewhere below stairs and picking up much information that
                    he will impart to me later! What a bully world this would be if all mankind followed my system:
                    stupid conventions all broken-down; the god of mirth holding his sides as he contemplates the world
                    at play! You may be sure that old lady is a stickler for the proprieties when she's at
                    home; widow of a bishop most likely. Those girls have been carefully reared, you can see that, but
                    full of the spirit of mischief. The moment I tackled that  stupid
                    innkeeper about his monstrous pie they felt the drawing of the mystic tie that binds us together
                    with silken cords. Very likely they, like us, are in search of adventure, and if our own affairs
                    were less urgent I should certainly cultivate their further acquaintance."
                The lady who called herself the Duchess of Suffolk (Mass.) was undoubtedly a person of consequence
                    and the possessor of a delightful humor. Deering assumed that she and her companions were abroad
                    upon a lark of some kind and were enjoying themselves tremendously. Hood's spell renewed
                    its grip upon him. It occurred to him that the whole world might have been touched with the May
                    madness, and that the old order of things had passed forever.  It
                    seemed ages since he had watched the ticker in his father's office. As they sat smoking on
                    the veranda the Duchess of Suffolk, the Queen of Sheba, and Maid Marian came out and entered a big
                    car. The old lady bowed with dignity as the car moved off; the girls waved their hands.
                "Perfect!" Hood muttered as he returned their salutations. "We may never
                    meet again in this world, but the memory of this encounter will abide with me forever."
                "I don't want to appear fussy, Hood," Deering began good-naturedly,
                    "but would you mind telling me what's next on your programme?"
                "Not in the slightest. It's just occurred to me that it would be well to dine
                    to-night in one of the handsome  villas scattered through these hills.
                    Still following the slipper, we shall choose one somewhere east of the inn and present ourselves
                    confidently at the front door. Failing there, we shall assault the postern and, perhaps, enrich our
                    knowledge of life with the servants' gossip."
                "There are some famous kennels in this neighborhood, and I'd hate awfully to have
                    an Airedale bite a hole in my leg," Deering suggested.
                "My dear boy, that's the tamest thing that could happen to us! My calves are
                    covered with scars from dogs' teeth; you soon get hardened to canine ferocity.
                    We'll take a tramp for an hour to work the fuzz off our gray matter, and then a nap to
                    freshen us up for the evening. We shall learn much to-night; I'm confident of
                    that."
                
                There seemed to be no way of escaping Hood or changing his mind once he announced a decision. The
                    programme was put through exactly as he had indicated. The important thing about the tramp was that
                    Cassowary accompanied them on the walk, and Deering found him both agreeable and interesting. He
                    discoursed of polo, last year's Harvard-Yale football game, and iceboating, in which he
                    seemed deeply experienced.
                Hood left them to look for hieroglyphics on a barn which he said was a veritable palimpsest of
                    cryptic notations of roving thieves.
                Cassowary's manner underwent a marked change when he and Deering were alone.
                "If you're going to give the old boy  the
                    slip," he said earnestly, "I want you to give me notice. I'm not going to
                    be left alone with him."
                Their eyes met in a long scrutiny; then Deering laughed.
                "I don't know how you feel about it, but, by George, I'm afraid to shake
                    him!"
                "That's exactly my fix," Cassowary answered. "I was in a bad way
                    when he picked me up: just about ready to jump off a high building and let it go at that. And I must
                    say he does make things seem brighter. He mustn't see us talking off key, as he'd
                    say, but I'd like to ask you this: what's he running away from? That's
                    what worries me. What's he grabbing newspapers for all the time and slashing out ads and
                    other queer stuff?"
                "You've got me there," Deering replied 
                    soberly. "We ran into some men the other night who he said were detectives looking for him,
                    but it didn't seem to worry him any."
                "There's nothing new in that. We've struck a number of
                    men who apparently were looking for somebody, and he greatly enjoys chaffing them. If he's
                    really a crook, he wouldn't be exposing himself to arrest as he does."
                Hood was now returning from his investigations of the barn, and as he crossed the pasture was
                    examining a bunch of the newspaper clippings with which his pockets were stuffed.
                "You needn't be afraid of getting into trouble with him," Cassowary
                    remarked admiringly. "He pulls off things you wouldn't think could be done.
                    He's a marvel, that man!"
                
                "Old Bill Fogarty's been ripping into the country stores in these parts,"
                    began Hood volubly; "found his mark on the barn, all right. Amusing cuss, Fogarty. Sawed
                    himself out of most of the jails between here and Bangor. We'll probably meet up with him
                    somewhere. It's about time to go back for that snooze, boys. To the road again!"
                He strode off singing, in a very good tenor voice, snatches from Italian operas, and his pace was so
                    rapid that his companions were hard pressed to keep up with him.
            
            
            
                VII
                EVENING dress was becoming to Hood, enhancing the distinction which his rough corduroys never wholly
                    obscured. He surveyed Deering critically, gave a twist to his tie, and said it was time to be off.
                    As they drove slowly through the country he discussed the various houses they passed, speculating as
                    to the entertainment they offered. He finally ordered Cassowary to stop at the entrance to an
                    imposing estate, where a large colonial mansion stood some distance from the highway.
                "This strikes me as promising," he remarked, rising in the car and craning his neck
                    to gain a view of the house through the shrubbery. "Drive in, Cassowary,  and stand by with the car till you see whether we have to run for
                    it."
                He gave the electric annunciator a prolonged push, and as a butler opened the door advanced into the
                    hall with his most authoritative air.
                "Mr. Hood and Mr. Tuck. I trust I correctly understood that we dine at seven." The
                    man eyed them with surprise but took their coats and hats.
                "We are expected. Please announce us immediately."
                Deering followed him bewilderedly into the drawing-room and planted himself close to the door.
                "Assurance, my dear boy, conquers all things," Hood declaimed. "This stuff
                    looks like real Chippendale, and the rugs seem to be genuine." He sniffed contemptuously as
                    he posed before  a long mirror for a final inspection of his raiment.
                    "It always pains me to detect the odor of boiled vegetables when I enter a strange house.
                    Architects tell me that it is almost impossible to prevent"
                A woman's figure flashed in the mirror beside him, and he whirled round and bowed from the
                    hips.
                "I trust you are not so lacking in the sense of hospitality that you find yourself
                    considering means of ejecting us. My comrade and I are weary from a long journey."
                Turning quickly, her gaze fell upon Deering, who was stealing on tiptoe toward the door.
                "Halt!" commanded Hood.
                Deering paused and sheepishly faced his hostess.
                
                She was a small, trim, graceful woman, of the type that greets middle life smilingly and with no fear
                    of what may lie beyond. Her dark hair had whitened, but her rosy cheeks belied its insinuations. She
                    viewed Deering with frank curiosity, but with no indication of alarm. She was not a woman one would
                    consciously annoy, and Deering's face burned as he felt her eyes inspecting him from head
                    to foot. He had never before been so heartily ashamed of himself; once out of this scrape, he meant
                    to escape from Hood and lead a circumspect, orderly life.
                "Which is Hood and which is Tuck?" the woman asked with a faint smile.
                "The friar is the gentleman standing on one foot at your right," Hood answered.
                    "Conscious of my unworthiness,  I plead guilty to being
                    HoodHood the hobo delectable, the tramp incomprehensible!"
                "Incomprehensible," she repeated; "you strike me as altogether
                    obvious."
                "You never made a greater mistake," Hood returned with asperity. "But the
                    question that now agitates us is simply this: do we eat or do we not?"
                Deering looked longingly at a chair with which he felt strongly impelled to brain his suave,
                    unruffled companion. Hood apparently was hardened to such encounters, and stood his ground
                    unflinchingly. All Deering's instincts of chivalry were roused by the little woman, who had
                    every reason for turning them out of doors. He resolved to make it easy for her to do so.
                "I beg your pardon" he faltered.
                
                Hood signalled to him furiously behind her back to maintain silence.
                "No apology would be adequate," she remarked with dignity. "We'd
                    better drop that and consider your errand on its strict merits."
                "Admirably said, madam," Hood rejoined readily. "We ask nothing of you but
                    seats at your table and the favor of a little wholesome and stimulating conversation, which I refuse
                    to believe you capable of denying us."
                A clock somewhere began to boom seven. She waited for the last stroke to die away.
                "I make it a rule never to deny food to any applicant, no matter how unworthy. You may
                    remain."
                Deering had hardly adjusted himself to this when an old gentleman entered 
                    
                        "I make it a rule never to deny food to any applicant, no matter how
                            unworthy. You may remain."
                    
                     the room, and with only the most casual glance at the two pilgrims
                    walked to the grand piano, shook back his cuffs, and began playing Mendelssohn's
                    "Spring Song," as though that particular melody were the one great passion of his
                    life. When he had concluded he rose and shook down his cuffs.
                "If that isn't music," he demanded, walking up to the amazed Deering, who
                    still clung to his post by the door, "what is it? Answer me that!"
                "You played it perfectly," Deering stammered.
                "And you," he demanded, whirling upon Hood, "what have you to say,
                    sir?"
                "The great master himself would have envied your touch," Hood replied.
                The old gentleman glared. "Rot!"  he ejaculated; and
                    then, turning to the mistress of the house, he asked: "Do these ruffians dine with
                    us?"
                "They seem about to do us that honor. My father, Mr. Hood, and Mr. Tuck. Shall we go out to
                    dinner?"
                The gentleman she had introduced as her father glared againa separate glare for eachand, advancing
                    with a ridiculous strut, gave the lady his arm.
                In the hall Hood intercepted Deering in the act of effecting egress by way of the front door. His
                    fingers dug deeply into his nervous companion's arm as he dragged him along, talking in his
                    characteristic vein:
                "My dear Tuck, it's a pleasure to find ourselves at last in a home whose
                    appointments speak for breeding and taste. The portrait on our right bears  all the marks of a genuine Copley. Madam, may I inquire whether I correctly attribute
                    that portrait to our great American master?"
                "You are quite right," she answered over her shoulder. "The subject of the
                    portrait is my great-great-grandfather."
                "My dear Tuck!" cried Hood jubilantly, still clutching Deering's arm,
                    "fate has again been kind to us; we are among folk of quality, as I had already
                    guessed."
                The dining-room was in dark oak; the glow from concealed burners shed a soft light upon a round
                    table.
                "You will sit at my right, Mr. Hood, and Mr. Tuck by my father on the other side."
                Deering pinched himself to make sure  he was awake. The next instant
                    the room whirled, and he clutched the back of his chair for support. A girl came into the room and
                    walked quickly to the seat beside him.
                "Mr Hood and Mr. Tuck, my daughter"
                She hesitated, and the girl laughingly ejaculated: "Pierrette!"
                "Sit down, won't you, please," said the little lady; but Deering stood
                    staring open-mouthed at the girl.
                Beyond question, she was the girl of the Little Dipper; there was no mistaking her. At this point the
                    old gentleman afforded diversion by rising and bowing first to Hood and then to Deering.
                "I am Pantaloon," he said. "My daughter is Columbine, as you may have
                    guessed."
                
                "It's very nice to see you again," Pierrette remarked to Deering;
                    "but, of course, I didn't know you would be here. How goes the burgling?"
                "Ierhaven't got started yet. I find it a little difficult"
                "I'm afraid you're not getting much fun out of the adventurous
                    life," she suggested, noting the wild look in his eyes.
                "I don't understand things, that's all," he confessed,
                    "but I think I'm going to like it."
                "You find it a little too full of surprises? Oh, we all do at first! You see grandfather is
                    seventy, and he never grew up, and mamma is just like him. And I" She shrugged her
                    shoulders and flashed a smile at her grandparent.
                "You are wonderfulbewildering," Deering stammered.
                
                The old gentleman was inveighing at Hood upon America's lack of mirth; the American people
                    had utterly lost their capacity for laughter, the old man averred. Deering's fork beat a
                    lively tattoo on his plate as he attacked his caviar.
                And then another girl entered and walked to the remaining vacant place opposite him.
                "Smeraldina," murmured the mistress of the house, glancing round the table, and
                    calmly finishing a remark the girl's entrance had interrupted.
                Deering's last hold upon sanity slowly relaxed. Unless his wits were entirely gone, he was
                    facing his sister Constance. She wore a dark gown, with white collar and cuffs, and her manner was
                    marked by the restraint of an upper servant of  some sort who sits at
                    the family table by sufferance. He was about to gasp out her name when she met his eyes with a
                    glinty stare and a quick shake of the head. Then Pierrette addressed a remark to herkindly meant to
                    relieve her embarrassmentreferring to a walk over the hills they had taken together that afternoon.
                "Ah, Smeraldina!" cried Pantaloon, "how is that last chapter? Columbine
                    refuses to show me any more of the book until it is finished. I look to you to make a duplicate for
                    my private perusal."
                Here was light of a sort upon the strange household; its mistress was a writer of books; Constance
                    was her secretary; but the effort to explain how his sister came to be masquerading in such a rle
                    left him doddering, and  that she should refuse to recognize himher
                    own brother!
                "If that new book is half as good as 'The Madness of May,'"
                    Pantaloon was saying, "I shall not be disappointed."
                "Oh, it's much better; infinitely better!" Constance declared warmly.
                "Tuck, do you realize we are in the presence of greatness?" cried Hood. Then,
                    turning to Columbine: "The author will please accept my heartiest
                    congratulations!"
                "Thank you kindly," replied the hostess. "I'm fortunate in my
                    secretary. Smeraldina is my fifth, and the first who ever made a suggestion that was of the
                    slightest use. The others had no imagination; they all objected to being called Smeraldina, and one
                    of them was named Smith!"
                "I'm afraid I'm the first who ever  had the
                    impertinence to suggest anything," Constance answered humbly.
                This was not the sister Deering had known in his old life before he fell victim to the prevailing May
                    madness. She was in servitude and evidently trying to make the best of it. She had been the
                    jolliest, the most high-spirited of girls, and to find her now meekly acting as amanuensis to a lady
                    whose very name he didn't know sent his imagination stumbling through the blindest of dark
                    alleys.
                Only the near presence of Pierrette and her perfect composure and goodnature checked his inclination
                    to stand up and shout to relieve his feelings.
                "I hope you don't mind my not turning up for breakfast," she remarked in
                    her low, bell-like tones.
                Deering's hopes rose. That breakfast  at the bungalow seemed
                    the one tangible incident of his twenty-four hours in Hood's company and, perhaps, if he
                    let her take the lead, he might find himself on solid earth again.
                "I'd been week-ending with Babette; she's an artist, you know, and
                    I'm posing for another of mamma's heroines. Babette got me up at daylight to pose
                    for the last picture and thenI skipped and left her to manage the breakfast."
                Her laugh as she said this established her identity beyond question. For a moment the thought of the
                    packages of worthless wrapping-paper he had found in his suitcase chilled his happiness in finding
                    her again; but it had not been her fault; the unbroken seals fully established her innocence.
                "You understand, of course, that it's  a dark secret
                    that mother writes. She had scribbled for her own amusement all her life, and published
                    'The Madness of May' just to see what the public would do to it."
                "I understand that it's immensely amusing," remarked Deering, thrilling as
                    she turned toward him.
                "Oh, you haven't read it!" she cried. "Mamma, Mr. Tuck
                    hasn't read your book."
                "My young friend is just beginning his education," interposed Hood. "I
                    unhesitatingly pronounce 'The Madness of May' a classicsomething the tired world
                    has been awaiting for years!"
                "Right!" cried Pantaloon. "You are quite right, sir. 'The Madness
                    of May' isn't a novel, it's a text-book on happiness!"
                
                "Truer words were never spoken!" exclaimed Hood with enthusiasm.
                "Do you know," began Deering, when it was possible to address Pierrette directly
                    again, "I don't believe I was built for this life. I find myself checking off the
                    alphabet on my fingers every few minutes to see if I have gone plumb mad!"
                She bent toward him with entreaty in her eyes. He observed that they were brown eyes! In the
                    starlight he had been unable to judge of their color, and he was chagrined that he hadn't
                    guessed at that first interview that she was a brown-eyed girl. Only a browneyed girl would have
                    hung a moon in a tree! Brown eyes are immensely eloquent of all manner of pleasant things such as
                    mischief, mirth, and dreams.
                
                Moreover, brown eyes are so highly sensitized that they receive and transmit messages in the most
                    secret of ciphers, and yet always with circumspection. He was perfectly satisfied with
                    Pierrette's eyes and relieved that they were not blue, for blue eyes may be cold, and the
                    finest of black eyes are sometimes dull. Gray eyes alonemisty, fathomless gray eyesshare imagination
                    with brown ones. But neither a blue-eyed nor a black-eyed nor a gray-eyed Pierrette was to be
                    thought of. Pierrette's eyes were brown, as he should have known, and what she was saying
                    to him was just what he should have expected once the color of her eyes had been determined.
                "Please don't! You must never try to understand things like this!
                    You  see grandpa and mamma love larking, and this is a lark.
                    We're always larking, you know."
                Hood's voice rose commandingly:
                "Once when I was in jail in Utica"
                Deering regretted his shortness of leg that made it impossible to kick his erratic companion under
                    the table. But a chorus of approval greeted this promising opening, and Hood continued relating with
                    much detail the manner in which he had once been incarcerated in company with a pickpocket whose
                    accomplishments and engaging personality he described with gusto. There was no denying that Hood
                    talked well, and the strict attention he was receiving evoked his best efforts.
                Deering, covertly glancing at his sister, found that she too hung upon Hood's  words. Her presence in the house still presented an enigma with which
                    his imagination struggled futilely, but no opportunity seemed likely to offer for an exchange of
                    confidences.
                Constance was a thoroughbred and played her part flawlessly. Her treatment by her employer left
                    nothing to be desired; the amusing little grandfather appealed to her now and then with unmistakable
                    liking, and the smiles that passed between her and Pierrette were evidence of the friendliest
                    relationship.
                The dinner was served in a leisurely fashion that encouraged talk, and Deering availed himself of
                    every chance for a tte--tte with Pierrette. She graciously came down out of the clouds and conversed
                    of things that were within his  comprehensionof golf and polo for
                    exampleand then passed into the unknown again. But in no way did she so much as hint at her
                    identity. When she referred to her mother or grandfather she employed the pseudonyms by which he
                    already knew them. While they were on the subject of polo he asked her if she had witnessed a
                    certain match.
                "Oh, yes, I was there!" she replied. "And, of course, I saw you; you were
                    the star performer. At tea afterward I saw you again, surrounded by admirers." She laughed
                    at his befuddlement. "But it's against all the rules to try to unmask me! Of
                    course, I know you, but maybe you will never know me!"
                "I don't believe you are cruel enough  to prolong my
                    agony forever! I can't stand this much longer!"
                "Perhaps some day," she answered quietly and meeting his eager gaze steadily,
                    "we shall meet just as the people of the world meet, and then maybe you won't like
                    me at all!"
                "After this the world will never be the same planet again. Hereafter my business will be to
                    follow you"
                She broke in laughingly, "even to the Little Dipper?"
                "Even to the farthest star!" he answered.
                After coffee had been served in the drawing-room, Hood, again dominating the company (much to
                    Deering's disgust), suggested music. Pierrette contributed a flashing, golden Chopin waltz
                    and Pantaloon Schubert's "Serenade,"  which
                    he played atrociously, whereupon Hood announced that he would sing a Scotch ballad, which he
                    proceeded to do surprisingly well. The evening could not last forever, and Deering chafed at his
                    inability to detach Pierrette from the piano; but she was most provokingly submissive to
                    Hood's demand that the music continue. Deering had protested that he didn't sing;
                    he hated himself for not singing!
                He fidgeted awhile; then, finding the others fully preoccupied with their musical experiments,
                    quietly left the drawing-room. It had occurred to him that Constance, who had disappeared when they
                    left the table, might be seeking a chance to speak to him and he strolled through the library (a
                    large room with books crowding to the ceiling)  to a glass door
                    opening into a conservatory, which was dark save for the light from the library. He was about to
                    turn away when an outer door opened furtively and Cassowary stepped in from the grounds. The
                    chauffeur glanced about nervously as though anxious to avoid detection.
                As Deering watched him a shadow darted by, and his sisterunmistakably Constance in the dark gown with
                    its white collar and cuffs that she had worn at dinnermoved swiftly toward the chauffeur. She gave
                    him both hands; he kissed her eagerly; then they began talking earnestly. For several minutes
                    Deering heard the blurred murmur of rapid question and reply; then, evidently disturbed by an
                    outburst of merriment from the drawing-room, the two  parted with
                    another hand-clasp and kiss, and Cassowary darted through the outer door.
                Constance waited a moment, as though to compose herself, and then began retracing her steps down the
                    conservatory aisle. As she passed his hiding-place Deering stepped out and seized her arm.
                "So this is what's in the wind, is it?" he demanded roughly. "I
                    suppose you don't know that that man's a bad lot, a worthless fellow Hood picked
                    up in the hope of reforming him! For all I know he may be the chauffeur he pretends to be!"
                She freed herself and her eyes flashed angrily.
                "You don't know what you're saying! That man is a gentleman, and if  he went to pieces for a while it was my fault. I met him at the
                    Drakes' last year when you were away hunting in Canada. He came to our house afterward, but
                    for some reason father took one of his strong dislikes to him, and forbade my seeing him again. I
                    knew he was with this man Hood, and when I left the table awhile ago I met him outside the
                    servants' dining-room and told him I would talk to him here."
                "What does he call himself?" Deering asked.
                "Torrence is the name the Drakes gave him," she answered with faint irony.
                    "He's a ranchman in Wyoming and was in Bob Drake's class in
                    college."
                He knew perfectly well that the Drakes were not people likely to countenance an impostor. His first
                    instinct  had been to protect his sister from an unknown scamp, and he
                    was sorry that he had spoken to her so roughly. Her distress and anxiety were apparent, and he was
                    filled with pity for her. Since childhood they had been the best of pals, and if she loved a man who
                    was worthy of her he would aid the affair in every way possible. He was surprised by the abruptness
                    with which she stepped close to him and laid her hand on his arm.
                "Billy, who is Hood?" she whispered.
                "I don't know!" he ejaculated, and then as she eyed him curiously he
                    explained hurriedly: "I was in an awful mess when he turned up, Connie. I'd gone
                    into a copper deal with Ned Rans-comb and needed more money to help him through with it. I put in
                    all I  had and touched one of father's boxes at the bank for
                    some more and lost it, or didn't lose it; God knows what did become of it! It would take a
                    week to tell you the whole story. Ranscomb disappeared, absolutely, and there I was! I should have
                    killed myself if that lunatic Hood hadn't turned up and hypnotized me. But
                    whatwhat" (he fairly choked with the question), "in heaven's name are you
                    doing here? Why did you cut out California? I tell you, Connie, if I'm not crazy everybody
                    else is! I nearly fainted when you came into the dining-room."
                Constance smiled at his despair, but hurried on with explanations:
                "We can't talk here, but I can clear up a few things. Father read that
                    woman's book, and it went to his  head. Yes," she
                    added as Deering groaned in his helplessness, "father's acting a good deal like
                    those people in the drawing-room. He's got the May madness, and I'm afraid
                    I've got a touch of it myself! Father started off to have adventures like the people in
                    that book and dragged me along to get my mind off Tommy"
                "Tommy?"
                "Mr. Torrence!"
                Billy swallowed this with a gulp.
                "But, Billy," Constance continued seriously, "there's really
                    something on father's mind; he thinks he's looking for somebody, and I'm
                    not sure whether he is or not. That's how I come to be here. He made me answer an
                    advertisement and take this position to spy on these people."
                
                "My God!" Deering gasped, "gone clean mad, the whole bunch of us. Who the
                    deuce are these lunatics anyhow?"
                "I don't know, Billy; honestly I don't! You know nearly as much about them
                    as I do. Their mail goes to a bank in town, and I met my employer at a lawyer's office in
                    Hartford. Father suspects something and made me do it, so I might watch them. The mother and
                    daughter have been abroad a great deal, and just came home a month ago. I never saw this man Hood
                    until tonight. The mother and daughter and the old gentleman call each other by the names you heard
                    at the table, and the books in the library are marked with half a dozen names. Even the silver gives
                    no clew. I've been here a week and only one person has come to  the house" (she lowered her voice to a whisper), "and that was Ned
                    Ranscomb!"
                He clutched her hands, and the words he tried to utter became a queer, inarticulate gurgle in his
                    throat.
                "Ned came here to see a girl," she went on: "an artist who made the
                    pictures for 'The Madness of May.' He's quite crazy about her. I did get
                    that much out of Pierrette. This artist's a victim of the madness too, and seems to be
                    leading Ned a gay dance!"
                "Took my two hundred thousand and got me to steal two more," he groaned,
                    "and then went chasing a girl all over creation! And the fool always bragged that he was
                    immune; that no girl"
                "Another victim of the same disease, that's all," answered Constance with
                    a wry smile.
                
                "Not Ned; not Ranscomb! That settles it! We've all gone loony!"
                "Well, even so, we mustn't be caught here," said Constance with decision
                    as the music ceased.
                "Tell me, quick, where can I find the governor?" Deering demanded.
                "If you must know, Billy," she replied, her lips quivering with
                    mirth, "our dear parent is in jailin jail! Tommy collected those glad
                    tidings at the garage."
                Having launched this at her astounded brother, she pushed him from her and ran away through the
                    conservatory.
            
            
            
                VIII
                "TUCK, my boy, you should cultivate the art of music!" cried Hood as Deering
                    reappeared, somewhat pale but resigned to an unknown fate, in the drawing-room. "And now
                    that ten has struck we must be on our way. Madam, will you ring for Cassowary, the prince of
                    chauffeurs, as we must leave your hospitable home at once?" He began making his adieus with
                    the greatest formality.
                "Mr. Tuck," said the mistress of the house as Deering gave her a limp hand,
                    "you have conferred the greatest honor upon us. Please never pass our door without
                    stopping."
                "To-morrow," he said, turning to  Pierrette,
                    "I shall find you to-morrow, either here or in the Dipper!"
                "Before you see me or the Dipper again, many things may happen!" she laughed.
                The triothe absurd little Pantaloon; Columbine, laughing and gracious to the last, and Pierrette,
                    smiling, charming, adorablecheerily called good night from the door as Cassowary sent the car
                    hurrying out of the grounds.
                "Well, what do you think of the life of freedom now?" demanded Hood as the car
                    reached the open road. "Begin to have a little faith in me, eh?"
                "Well, you seemed to put it over," Deering admitted grudgingly. "But I
                    can't go on this way, Hood; I really can't stand it. I've got to quit
                    right now!"
                
                "My dear boy!" Hood protested.
                "I've heard bad news about my father; one of theerservants back there told me he
                    was in jail!"
                "Stop!" bawled Hood. "This is important if true! Cassowary, I've
                    told you time and again to bring me any news you pick up in servants' halls. What have you
                    heard about the arrest of a gentleman named Deering?"
                "He's been pinched, all right," the chauffeur answered as he stopped the
                    car and turned round. "The constables over at West Dempster are trapping joy-riders, and
                    they nailed Mr. Deering about sundown for speeding. I learned that from the chauffeur at that house
                    where you dined."
                Hood slapped his knee and chortled with delight.
                
                "There's work ahead of us! But probably he's bailed himself out by this
                    time."
                "Not on your life!" Cassowary answered, and Deering marked a note of jubilation in
                    his tone, as though the thought of Mr. Deering's incarceration gave him pleasure.
                    "The magistrate's away for the night, and there's nobody there to fix
                    bail. It's part of the treatment in these parts to hold speed fiends a night or
                    two."
                Again Hood's hand fell upon Deering's knee.
                "A situation to delight the gods!" he cried. "Cassowary, old man, at the
                    next crossroads turn to the right and run in at the first gate. There's a farmhouse in the
                    midst of an orchard; we'll stop there and change our clothes."
                
                As the car started Deering whirled upon Hood and shook him violently by the collar.
                "I'm sick of all this rot! I can't stand any more, I tell you.
                    I'm going to quit right here!"
                Hood drew his arm round him affectionately.
                "My dear son, have I failed you at any point? Have you ever in your life had any adventures
                    to compare with those you've had with me? Stop whining and trust all to Hood!"
                Deering sank back into his corner with a growl of suppressed rage.
                When they reached the farmhouse Hood drew out a key and opened the front door with a proprietorial
                    air.
                "Whose place is this? I want to know what I'm getting in for," Deering
                    demanded wrathfully.
                
                "Mine, dearest Tuck! Mine, and the taxes paid. I use it as a rest-house for weary and jaded
                    crooks, if that will ease your mind!"
                Cassowary struck matches and lighted candles, disclosing a half-furnished room in great disorder. Old
                    clothing, paper bags that had contained food, a violin, and books in good bindings littered a table
                    in the middle of the floor, and articles of clothing were heaped in confusion on a time-battered
                    settle. The odor of stale pipe smoke hung upon the air. Under an empty bottle on the mantel Hood
                    found a scrap of paper which he scanned for a moment and then tore into pieces.
                "Just a scratch from good old Fogarty; he's been taking the rest-cure here between
                    jobs. Skipped yesterday; same chap that left his mark for me on that 
                    barn. One of the royal good fellows, Fogarty; does his work neatlynever carries a gun or pots a cop;
                    knows he can climb out of any jail that ever was made, and that, son, gives any man a joyful sense
                    of ease and security. The Tombs might hold him, but he avoids large cities; knows his limitations
                    like a true man of genius. Rare bird; thrifty doesn't describe him; he's just
                    plain stingy; sells stolen postage-stamps at par; the only living yegg that can put that over! By
                    George, I wouldn't be surprised if he couldn't sell 'em at a
                    premium!"
                As he talked he rummaged among the old clothes, chose a mud-splashed pair of trousers, and bade
                    Deering put them on, adding an even more disreputable coat and hat. Cassowary helped himself  to a change of raiment, and Hood selected what seemed to be the worst
                    of the lot.
                "Three suspicious characters will be noted by the constabulary of West Dempster within two
                    hours!" cried Hood, hopping out of his dress trousers. "Into the calaboose we
                    shall go, my dear Tuck! Never say that I haven't a thought for your peace and happiness. It
                    will give me joy unfeigned to bring you face to face with your delightful parent. Cassowary, my son,
                    I'm going to hide those bills of yours in the lining of my coat for safety. If they found
                    ten thousand plunks on me, they'd never let us go!"
                "Hood!" cried Deering in a voice moist with tears, "for God's
                    sake what fool thing are you up to now?"
                
                "I tell you we're going to jail!" Hood answered jubilantly.
                    "You've dined in good company with the most charming of girls at your side;
                    you've had a taste of the prosperous life; and now it's fitting that we should
                    touch the other extreme. The moment we step out of this shack we're criminals, crooks,
                    gallows meat;" he rolled this last term under his tongue unctuously. "This will
                    top all our other adventures. Here's hoping Fogarty may have preceded us. The old boy likes
                    to get pinched occasionally just for the fun of it."
                He was already blowing out the candles, and, seizing his stick, led the way back to the highway, with
                    Deering and Cassowary at his heels. The car had been run into an old barn, which  had evidently served Hood before. Within twenty-four hours they would
                    be touring again, he announced. The change from his dress clothes to ill-fitting rags had evidently
                    wrought a change of mood. Between whiffs at his pipe he sought consolation in Wagner, chanting bars
                    of "In fernem Land."
                Cassowary, who had adjusted himself to this new situation without question, whispered in
                    Deering's ear: "Don't kick; he's got something up his sleeve.
                    And he'll get you out of it; remember that! I've been in jail with him
                    before."
                Deering drew away impatiently. He was in no humor to welcome confidences from Torrence, alias Cassowary, whom his sister met clandestinely and kissedthe kiss
                    rankled! And yet it was nothing  against Cassowary that he had been
                    following Hood about like an infatuated fool. Deering knew himself to be equally culpable on that
                    score, and he was even now trudging after the hypnotic vagabond with a country calaboose as their
                    common goal. The chauffeur's interview with Constance had evidently cheered him mightily,
                    and he joined his voice to Hood's in a very fair rendering of "Ben Bolt."
                    Deering swore under his breath, angry at Hood, and furious that he had so little control of a
                    destiny that seemed urging him on to destruction.
            
            
            
                IX
                AT one o'clock West Dempster lay dark and silent before them. As they crossed a bridge into
                    the town Hood began to move cautiously.
                "Remember that we give up without a struggle: there's too much at stake to risk a
                    bullet now, and these country lumpkins shoot first, and hand you their cards afterward."
                He dived into an alley, and emerged midway of a block where a number of barrels under a shed awning
                    advertised a grocery.
                "Admirable!" whispered Hood, throwing his arms about his comrades. "We
                    will now arouse the watch."
                
                With this he kicked a barrel into the gutter, and jumped back like a mischievous boy into the shelter
                    of the alley. Footsteps were heard in a moment, far down the street.
                "These country cops are sometimes shrewd, but often the silly children of convention like
                    the rest of us. West Dempster has an evil reputation in the underworld. The pinching of joy-riders
                    is purely incidental; they run in anybody they catch after the curfew sounds from the coffin
                    factory."
                A window overhead opened with a bang, and a blast from a police whistle pierced the air shrilly.
                    Deering started to run, but Hood upset him with a thrust of his foot. Two men were already creeping
                    up behind them in the alley; the owner of the grocery stole out of 
                    the front door in a long nightgown and began howling dismally for help.
                "Throw up your hands, boys; it's no use!" cried Hood in mock despair.
                Then the man in the nightgown, after menacing Hood with a pistol, stuck the barrel of it into
                    Deering's mouth, opened inopportunely to protest his innocence. The policemen threw
                    themselves upon Hood and Cassowary, toppled them over, and flashed electric lamps in their faces.
                "More o' them yeggs," announced one of the officers with satisfaction as
                    he snapped a pair of handcuffs on Cassowary's wrists. "Don't you fellows
                    try any monkey-shines or we'll plug you full o' lead. Trot along now."
                The gentleman in the night-robe wished to detain the party for a recital  of his own prowess in giving warning of the attempted burglary. The police were disposed to make
                    light of his assistance, while Hood hung back to support the grocer's cause, a generosity
                    on his part that was received ill-temperedly by the officers of the law. They bade the grocer report
                    to the magistrate Monday morning, and they parted, but only after Hood had shaken the crestfallen
                    grocer warmly by the hand, warning him with the greatest solicitude against further exposure to the
                    night air. Two other policemen appeared; the whole force was doing them honor, Hood declared
                    proudly. He lifted his voice in song, but the lyrical impulse was hushed by a prod from a revolver.
                    He continued to talk, however, assuring his captors of his heartiest admiration for 
                    
                        "Throw up your hands, boys; it's no use!" cried Hood
                            in mock despair.
                    
                     their efficiency. He meant to recommend them for positions in the
                    secret servicemen of their genius were wasted upon a country town.
                When they reached the town hall a melancholy jailer roused himself and conducted them to the lockup
                    in the rear of the building. Careful search revealed nothing but a mass of crumpled clippings and a
                    pipe and tobacco in Hood's pockets.
                "Guess they dropped their tools somewhere," muttered one of the officers.
                "My dear boy," explained Hood, "the gentleman in the nightie, whom I take
                    to be a citizen and merchant of standing in your metropolis, may be able to assist you in finding
                    them. We left our safe-blowing apparatus in a chicken-coop in his back yard."
                
                They were entered on the blotter as R. Hood, F. Tuck, and Cass O'Weary the last Hood spelled
                    with the utmost care for the scowling turnkeyand charged with attempt to commit burglary and arson.
                Hood grumbled; he had hoped it would be murder or piracy on the high seas; burglary and arson were so
                    commonplace, he remarked with a sigh.
                The door closed upon them with an echoing clang, and they found themselves in a large coop, bare save
                    for several benches ranged along the walls. Two of these were occupied by prisoners, one of whom, a
                    short, thick-set man, snored vociferously. Hood noted his presence with interest.
                "Fogarty!" he whispered with a triumphant wave of his hand.
                
                A tall man who had chosen a cot as remote as possible from his fellow prisoner sat up and, seeing the
                    newcomers, stalked majestically to the door and yelled dismally for the keeper, who lounged
                    indifferently to the cage, puffing a cigar.
                "This is an outrage!" roared the prisoner. "Locking me up with these
                    felonsthese common convicts! I demand counsel; I'm going to have a writ of habeas corpus!
                    When I get out of here I'm going to go to the governor of your damned State and complain of
                    this. All Connecticut shall know of it! All America shall hear of it! To be locked up with one
                    safe-blower is enough, and now you've stuck three murderers into this rotten hole. I tell
                    you I can give bail. I tell you"
                
                The jailer snarled and bade him be quiet. In the tone of a man who is careful of his words he
                    threatened the direst punishment for any further expression of the gentleman's opinions.
                    Whereupon the gentleman seized the bars and shook them violently, and then, as though satisfied that
                    they were steel of the best quality, dropped his arms to his sides with a gesture of impotent
                    despair.
                "Father!"
                In spite of Constance's assertion, confirmed by Cassowary, Deering had not believed that his
                    father was in jail; but the outraged gentleman who had demanded the writ of habeas corpus was,
                    beyond question, Samuel J. Deering, head of the banking-house of Deering, Gaylord & Co. Mr.
                    Deering was  striding toward his bench with the sulky droop of a
                    premium batter who has struck out with the bases full.
                Scorning to glance at the creature in rags who had flung himself in his path, Samuel J. Deering
                    lunged at him fiercely with his right arm. Billy, ducking opportunely, saved his indignant parent
                    from tumbling upon the floor by catching him in his arms. Feeling that he had been attacked by a
                    ruffian, Mr. Deering yelled that he was being murdered.
                "I'm Billy! For God's sake, be quiet!"
                The senior Deering tottered to the wall.
                "Billy! What are you in for?" he demanded finally.
                "Burglary, arson, and little things like that," Billy answered with a jauntiness
                         that surprised him as much as it pained his father, who continued
                    to stare uncomprehendingly.
                "You've been reading that damned book, too, have you?" he whispered
                    hoarsely in his son's ear. "You've gone crazy like everybody else, have
                    you?"
                "I've been kidnaped, if that's what you mean," Billy answered
                    with a meaningful glance over his shoulder, and then with a fine attempt at bravado:
                    "I'm Friar Tuck, and that chap smoking a pipe is Robin Hood."
                Ordinarily his father's sense of humor could be trusted to respond to an intelligent appeal.
                    A slow grin had overspread Mr. Deering's face as Friar Tuck was mentioned, but when Billy
                    added Robin Hood his father's countenance underwent changes indicative of hope,  fear, and chagrin. Clinging to Billy's shoulder, he peered
                    through the gloom of the cage toward Hood, who lay on a bench, his coat rolled up for a pillow,
                    tranquilly smoking, with his eyes fixed upon the steel roof.
                "Hood!" Mr. Deering walked slowly toward Hood's bench.
                Hood sat up, took his pipe from his mouth, and nodded.
                "Hood, this is my father," said Billy.
                "A great pleasure, I'm sure," Hood responded courteously, extending his
                    hand. "I suppose it was inevitable that we should meet sooner or later, Mr.
                    Deering."
                "Youyou are BobBobTyringham?" asked Deering anxiously.
                "Right!" cried Hood in his usual assured manner. "And I will say for  you that you have given me a good chase. I confess that I
                    didn't think you capable of it; I swear I didn't! Tuck, I congratulate you; your
                    father is one of the true brotherhood of the stars. He's been chasing me for a month and,
                    by Jove, he's kept me guessing! But when I heard that he'd been jailed for
                    speeding, with a prospect of spending Sunday in this hole, I decided that it was time to throw down
                    the mask."
                Lights began to dance in the remote recesses of Billy's mind. Hood was Robert Tyringham, for
                    whom his father held as trustee two million dollars. Tyringham had not been heard of in years. The
                    only son of a most practical father, he had been from youth a victim of the wanderlust, absenting himself from home for long periods. For ten  years he had been on the list of the missing. That Hood should be this man was unbelievable. But
                    the senior Deering seemed not to question his identity. He sat down with a deep sigh and then began
                    to laugh.
                "If I hadn't found you by next Wednesday, I should have had to turn your property
                    over to a dozen charitable institutions provided for by your father's willand, by George,
                    I've been fighting a temptation to steal it!" His arms clasped Billy's
                    shoulder convulsively. "It's been horrible, ghastly! I've been afraid I
                    might find you and afraid I wouldn't! I tell you it's been hell. I've
                    spent thousands of dollars trying to find you, fearing one day you might turn up, and the next day
                    afraid you wouldn't. And, you know, Tyringham,  your father
                    was my dearest friend; that's what made it all so horrible. I want you to know about it,
                    Billy; I want you to know the worst about me; I'm not the man you thought me. When I
                    started away with Constance and told you I was going to California I decided to make a last effort
                    to find Tyringham. I read a damned novel that acted on me like a poison; that's why
                    I've made a fool of myself in a thousand ways, thinking that by masquerading over the
                    country I might catch Tyringham at his own game. And now you know what I might have been; you see
                    what I was trying to bea common thief, a betrayer of a sacred trust."
                "Don't talk like that, father," began Billy, shaken by his
                    father's humility. "I guess we're in the same hole, only  I'm in deeper. I tried to rob you. I tried
                    to steal some of that Tyringham money myself, butbut"
                Hood, wishing to leave the two alone for their further confidences, walked to the recumbent Fogarty,
                    roused him with a dig in the ribs, and conferred with him in low tones.
                "You took the stuff from my box, Billy?" Mr. Deering asked.
                Billy waited apprehensively for what might follow. It was possible that his father had already robbed
                    the Tyringham estate; the thought chilled him into dejection.
                "I had stolen it. My God, I couldn't help it!" Deering
                    groaned. "I left that waste paper in the box to fool myself, and put the real stuff in
                    another place. I hopedyes, that was it, I hopedI'd  never
                    find Tyringham and I could keep those bonds. But all the time I kept looking for him. You see,
                    Billy, I couldn't be as bad as I wanted to be; and yet"
                He drew his hand across his face as though to shut out the picture he saw of himself as a felon.
                "Oh, you wouldn't have done it; you couldn't have done it!" cried
                    Billy, anxious to mitigate his father's misery. "If you hadn't hidden the
                    real bonds, I'd have been a thief! Ned Ranscomb was trying to corner Mizpah and needed my
                    help. I put in all I hadthat two hundred thousand you gave me my last birthday, and then he skipped.
                    When I get hold of him!"
                "You put two hundred thousand in Mizpah?"
                
                "I did, like a fool, and, of course, it's lost! Ned went daffy about a girl and
                    dropped Mizpahand my money!"
                Mr. Deering was once more a business man. "What did Ranscomb buy at?" he asked
                    curtly.
                "Seven and a quarter."
                "Then you needn't kick Ned! The Ranscombs put through their deal and
                    Mizpah's gone to forty!"
                Hood rejoined them, and they talked till daylight. He told them much of himself. The responsibility
                    of a great fortune had not appealed to him; he had been honest in his preference for the vagabond
                    life, but realized, now that he was well launched upon middle age, that it was only becoming and
                    decent for him to alter his ways. Billy's liking for him, that had struggled so
                    rebelliously  against impatience and distrust, warmed to the heartiest
                    admiration.
                "Of course I knew you were married," the senior Deering remarked for
                    Billy's enlightenment, "and now and then I got glimpses of you in your gypsy life.
                    Your wife had a fortune of her ownshe was one of Augustus Davis's daughtersso of course she
                    hasn't suffered from your foolishness."
                "My wife shared my tastes; there has never been the slightest trouble between us. Our
                    daughter is just like us. But now Mrs. Tyringham thinks we ought to settle down and be
                    respectable."
                "I knew your wife and daughter had come home. I had got that far," Mr. Deering
                    resumed. "And after I began to suspect that you and Hood were the  same person I put my own daughter into your house on the Dempster road as a spy to
                    watch for you."
                "My wife wasn't fooled for a minute," Hood chuckled. "We were
                    having our last fling before we settled down for the rest of our days. We all have the same weakness
                    for a springtime lark: my wife, my daughter, and I."
                Billy ran his hands through his hair. "Pierrette! Pierrette is your daughter!"
                "Certainly," replied Hood; "and Columbine, the dearest woman in the world,
                    is my wife, and Pantaloon my father-in-law. In my affair with you there was only one coincidence:
                    everything else was planned. It was Pierrette, whose real name is RobertaBobby for short, when
                    we're not playing a game of some sortBobby really  did lift
                    your suitcase by mistake. And it was stowed away in Cassowary's car when I came to your
                    house intending to return it. But when I saw that you needed diversion I decided to give you a
                    whirl. It was an easy matter for Cassowary to move the suitcase to the bungalow, where you found it.
                    I steered you to the house on purpose to see how you and Bobby would hit it off. The result seems to
                    have been satisfactory!"
                Cassowary turned uneasily on his bench.
                "And before we quit all this foolishness," Hood resumed with a glance at the
                    chauffeur, "there's one thing I want to ask you, Mr. Deering, as a special favor.
                    That chap lying over there is Tommy Torrence, whom you kicked off your door-step for daring to love
                    your  daughter. He's one of the best fellows in the world.
                    Just because his father, the old senator, didn't quite hit it off with you in a railroad
                    deal before Tommy was born is no reason why you should take it out on the boy. He started for the
                    bad after you made a row over his attentions to your daughter, but he's been with me six
                    months and he's as right and true a chap as ever lived. You've got to fix it up
                    with him or I'llI'llwell, I'll be pretty hard on your boy if he ever
                    wants to break into my family!"
                With this Hood rose and drew from his pocket a handful of newspaper clippings which he threw into the
                    air and watched flutter to the floor.
                "Those are some of your advertisements offering handsome rewards for  news of me dead or alive. In collecting them I've had a mighty good time.
                    Let's all go to sleep; to-morrow night the genial Fogarty will get us out of this.
                    He's over there now sawing the first bar of that window!"
            
            
            
                X
                AYEAR has passed and it is May again and the last day of that month of enchantment. There has been a
                    house-party at the Deering place at Radford Hills. Constance came from Wyoming to spend May with her
                    father, bringing with her, of course, her husband, sometime known as Cassowary, who has been elected
                    to the legislature of his State and, may, it is reported, be governor one of these days. The
                    Tyringhams are there, and this includes Robert Tyringham, alias R. Hood, and his
                    wife (whose authorship of "The Madness of May," has not yet been acknowledged) and
                    also her father, Augustus Davis, who continues to find  recreation in
                    frequent attacks upon any inoffensive piano that gets in his way. Mr. and Mrs. Edward Ranscomb, too,
                    have shared Mr. Deering's hospitality. Marriage has not interrupted Mrs.
                    Ranscomb's career as an artist, though she has dropped illustrating, and is specializing in
                    children's portraits with distinguished success.
                The senior Deering, wholly at peace with his conscience, does not work as hard as he used to before
                    his taste of adventurous life gained in the pursuit of Hood. He is very proud of his
                    daughter-in-law, whose brown eyes bring constant cheer and happiness to his table. If she does not
                    hang moons in trees any more, she is still quite capable of doing so, and has no idea of permitting
                    her husband to wear himself out in the  banking-house. They are going
                    to keep some time every year for play, she declares, to the very end of their lives.
                Hood had been devoting himself assiduously to mastering the details of his business affairs, living
                    as other men do, keeping regular office hours in a tall building with an outlook toward the sea, and
                    taking his recreation on the golf-links every other afternoon.
                "Mamma has been nervous all this month about papa," Roberta (known otherwise as
                    Pierrette or Bobby) was saying as she and Billy slowly paced the veranda. "But now May is
                    over and he hasn't shown any disposition to run away. I suppose he's really
                    cured." There was a tinge of regret in her last words.
                "Yes," Billy replied carelessly. "He 
                    hasn't mentioned his old roving days lately. I think he's even sensitive about
                    having them referred to."
                "But even if he should want to go, mamma wouldn't break her heart about it. She
                    feels that it's really something fine in him: his love of the out-of-doors, and adventures,
                    and knowing all sorts and conditions of men. And he has really helped lots of people, just as he
                    helped you. And he always had so much fun when we all played gypsy, or he went off alone and came
                    back with no end of good stories. I'm just a little sorry"
                They paused, clasping hands and looking off at the starry canopy. Suddenly from the side of the house
                    a man walked slowly, hesitatingly. He stopped, turned, glanced at the veranda, and  then, sniffing the air, walked rapidly toward the gate, swinging a
                    stick, his face lifted to the stars.
                Bobby's hand clasped Billy's more tightly as they watched in silence.
                "It's papa; he's taking to the road again!" she murmured.
                "But he'll come back; it won't be for long this time. I haven't
                    the heart to stop him!"
                "No," she said softly, "it would be cruel to do that."
                The lamps at the gate shone upon Robert Tyringham as he paused and then, with a characteristic
                flourish of his stick, turned westward and strode away into the night.
                
            
        
    
