
     ----CITATION---- 
        Dreiser, Theodore, 1871-1945. The "Genius": electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2444
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
            
                THE "GENIUS"
                
            
            
            
                BOOKS BY THEODORE DREISER
                SISTER CARRIE
                JENNIE GERHARDT
                THE FINANCIER
                THE TITAN
                A TRAVELER AT FORTY
                A HOOSIER HOLIDAY
                PLAYS OF THE NATURAL AND SUPERNATURAL
                THE HAND OF THE POTTER
                FREE AND OTHER STORIES
                TWELVE MEN
                HEY RUB-A-DUB-DUB
                A BOOK ABOUT MYSELF
                THE COLOR OF A GREAT CITY
                THE "GENIUS"
                AN AMERICAN TRAGEDY
            
            
            
                
                    THE "GENIUS"
                
                BY
                    THEODORE DREISER
                
                
                    BONI AND LIVERIGHT PUBLISHERS
                    NEW YORK
                    
                
            
            
            
                
                    Copyright, 1915, by
                     JOHN LANE COMPANY
                
                
                    Copyright, 1923, by
                     BONI AND LIVERIGHT, INC.
                PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
                First Printing, July, 1923.
                Second Printing, August, 1923.
                Third Printing, October, 1923.
                Fourth Printing, December, 1923.
                Fifth Printing, March, 1924.
                Sixth Printing, July, 1924.
                Seventh Printing, October, 1924.
                Eighth Printing, January, 1925.
                Ninth Printing, July, 1925.
                Tenth Printing, December, 1925.
                Eleventh Printing, April, 1926.
                Twelfth Printing, September, 1926.
                Thirteenth Printing, May, 1927.
            
            
            
                FOREWORD
                "The 'Genius'" was first published in 1915.
                    More than one year after this and after the book had had a considerable sale,
                    the New York Society for the Suppression of Vice notified the John Lane Company
                    that the sale, advertisement and publication of this work violated the laws of
                    the State of New York against obscene literature and threatened to prosecute the
                    publishers criminally unless the publication and sale was stopped. The
                    publishers in July 1916, withdrew "The
                    'Genius'" merely upon the attitude of the Society for
                    the Prevention of Vice and despite the fact that all intelligent opinion in the
                    United States in the form of press and periodical reviews and personal statement
                    endorsed the work as a fine and interesting piece of literature. These reviews
                    and opinions are too well known to require quotation here.
                The attitude of the Society for the Suppression of Vice was expressed in a letter
                    from its Secretary dated November 22, 1916 to Mr. George T. Keating. The
                    quotation from Mr. Sumner's letter is pertinent:
                "As to the book which you mention, this matter was brought to our
                    attention by the receipt of two complaints at about the same time, one from an
                    organization in another city, and the other from an individual who had obtained
                    the book at a circulating library. This latter party sent us a very indignant
                    letter, enclosing pages which he tore from the book rather than return the book
                    to the library for further circulation. We read the book and had it read by
                    others. It was the consensus of opinion that the book was not a proper one for
                    general circulation, and notice of the complaints and our opinion thereon were
                    filed with the publishers who consented to withdraw the book from sale. The
                    argument is advanced that this book is not objectional because the principal
                    character, at the end of the story, reaps the results of his immoral life: but
                    it must be borne in mind that through the story there are very vivid
                    descriptions of the activities of certain female delinquents who do not,
                    apparently, suffer any ill  consequence from their
                    misconduct but, in the language of the day, 'get away with
                    it.' It is wholly conceivable that the reading of such a book by a
                    young woman would be very harmful, and that is the standpoint from which this
                    Society views the matters which become the subjects of its activities, to wit:
                    the effect on the young and impressionable mind."
                In order to determine whether or not a book is salacious and therefore a
                    violation of the statute, it is necessary to know something of the purpose of
                    the writer's art, as well as the dividing line between a literary work
                    of art and a frankly nasty book.
                Immoral books might be classed under three heads, namely, those that are written
                    with a direct appeal to the baser passions; those that are written for a moral
                    purpose; and those that are written solely for the purpose of art.
                Among the first are such books as "Stolen Sweets,"
                    "The Confessions of Maria Monk," etc.books that are written to
                    arouse lawless sexual passions, and sold on that basis. This sort of work
                    appeals primarily to the ignorant and unenlightened members of society, and in
                    fact is not to be classed under the head of literature.
                Among the second are such books as the studies in the form of fiction by Reginald
                    Wright Kauffman, Elizabeth Robins and others on the question of white slavery,
                    and many of the films which have recently been shown on the screen are also
                    representative of this type of work. In this instance literature is used for
                    purposes of inculcating a moral lesson by holding up to the public the
                    unpleasant aspects of vice in all its myriad forms. Of all such books and plays
                    that have been written, not one takes rank as great literature, for in nearly
                    every case the purpose of the novel or play is perverted and sacrificed to the
                    moral object, and the literary side of the work becomes negligible.
                Among the third class of books may be numbered "The
                    'Genius'" and hundreds of volumes of the ancient
                    classics which were written for pure literary purposes. It is not necessary to
                    institute a comparison between "The
                    'Genius'" and accredited works of genius, nor is it
                    necessary to cite instances of immorality in such works to justify their
                    presence in the book under discussion. In order to determine whether or not
                    "The 'Genius'" is merely a book of filth, or
                    an accredited work of literary art, we need only to base our proof on the
                    principles of modern sthetics  as applied not only
                    to literary work but to music, painting and sculpture.
                First of all, the purpose of pure fiction is to stimulate the sthetic sense. It
                    is true that the novel has been used for so-called high moral purposes, for the
                    propaganda of various theories of government, for the alleviation of social
                    suffering, for the discussion of problems of ethics, but these are, strictly
                    speaking, not the functions of the novel but are only incidental to it, and more
                    often than not, hurt the literary side of the work. Before proceeding with the
                    discussion we ought to explain what is meant by the sthetic sense and how a work
                    of art appeals to it. Only people of innate culture possess the sthetic sense,
                    for it is merely the understanding and appreciation of the fine arts. Those that
                    have it know it, but it is therefore difficult to explain what it is to those
                    who have it not. We shall therefore use some comparisons that will be understood
                    by everybody. Great works of art stimulate the sthetic feeling. We gain it from
                    reading a great book, from hearing great music, and from viewing great paintings
                    and sculpture. Perhaps the closest analogy to the sthetic sense is the feeling
                    that one has when he looks at Niagara Falls, the Colorado Grand Canyon, or some
                    great mountain. No one who has seen these great works of nature can forget the
                    thrill that he experienced while in their presence and if the precise feeling
                    could be analyzed, one would say that the sensation of awe comes over one and
                    that one is in a measure spellbound. Great thoughts surge through the brain
                    while the body remains inert. We feel the immensity of the scene while at the
                    same time we realize how insignificant we are. Another phase of the sthetic
                    sense might be shown in citing the instance of the effect which the service in
                    certain churches has not only upon the members but frequently upon non-members.
                    Those who are fond of ritual, incense, chanting, dim lights, architecture,
                    painting and sculpture will frequently fall under such a spell inside of these
                    churches. That is the nearest approach to the sthetic feeling that one can get
                    without absolutely having it from an art point of view. Some people get a thrill
                    from a sunset, some from a sunrise, some from the wide expanse of the ocean, but
                    all people can, in some form, attain this thrill. Those having the sthetic sense
                    get it from art.
                Now the three elements which go toward the creation of all  great literary work, are Form, Organization and Rhythm. By the
                    first we mean that the author creates his characters by giving an account of
                    their hereditary traits, environmental influences, natural predilections, etc.,
                    besides describing them in physical detail, the purpose being to give us the
                    feeling that a real flesh and blood person is passing before us. In other words,
                    we must feel a sense of solidity in the characters.
                After the characters are created in the mind of the novelist, he traces their
                    lives through the various vicissitudes of life, which is known as Organization
                    of the material.
                Rhythm, which is the third step in the novel, is bringing the characters into
                    relation with each other, and events with other events, making a compact mass of
                    human relation, thus furnishing the dynamism.
                It will be noticed that nothing has thus far been said about the plot, for the
                    reason that in all great fiction, the plot is negligible. In fact, the converse
                    is frequently true that where there is no plot there is apt to be literary
                    merit. Now the reason for the absence of a plot in a great work of art is that
                    it interferes with the logical working out of the destinies of the characters.
                    The presence of a plot obliges the novelist to make concessions here and there
                    so that the plot will work out to its proper dnouement, while its absence
                    permits him to allow the characters to develop according to their own lights and
                    in accordance with their natural or unnatural passions. The true novelist sees
                    life pass before his eyes as a pageant and he merely notes what he sees in the
                    passing. If it be immorality he records it; if it be sanctity, he also notes it;
                    and it will be observed that in all great works of literary art the novelist
                    rarely passes an opinion on the actions or the speeches of his characters. In
                    other words, he places the people and situations before us, and lets us draw our
                    own conclusions, or morals, if we choose.
                Let us apply these principles to "The
                    'Genius'." From the foregoing it would logically
                    appear that the book does not come under the first headbooks that were written
                    and published for the purpose of appealing to a lewd mind. Second, there is no
                    internal evidence that the book was intended to be a moral lesson showing that
                    the wages of sin is death, nor are there any opinions expressed by the author as
                    to the justification of the immorality. He simply records what happens to a man
                    who is an  artist and a pathological specimen of
                    life, and he lets it rest there.
                Beginning with Form, which as we have said, is the creating of character, we find
                    that in no other branch of American letters is there such careful attention
                    given to detail as in the books of Theodore Dreiser, the only man who ever
                    approached him having been the late David Graham Phillips. With tireless
                    attention to physical detail, Dreiser builds up his characters until they give
                    us the sensation of perfect solidity, so much in fact, that it has been said by
                    eminent critics that he writes fiction like fact. There is not a single
                    character in "The 'Genius'" that does not
                    impress one as being well-rounded and containing the depth that is necessary to
                    solidity.
                After the characters have been created Dreiser furnishes the various situations
                    of life in which they appear, starts every one of his people on their way and
                    organizes his vast amount of material like a man putting a great charge into a
                    powerful gun.
                The dynamic force of the novel becomes apparent when the lives of the characters
                    are brought into contact, the relation of events is established, and the whole
                    procession starts on its eventful passage through the book and incidentally
                    through life. Thus is the Rhythm of the novel established and we feel that the
                    moving mass of life is proceeding under the stimulus of some mysterious
                    power.
                The works of Theodore Dreiser bear all the marks of greatness, for not only are
                    they conceived on a colossal scale, but they are devoid of all moralizing,
                    speculating, preaching, and aim to give a huge panorama of life as it expands to
                    the sight. The characters are people that one might meet in any walk of life,
                    and they fulfill their destinies in a natural and logical way without the
                    guidance of the novelist. Those that are immoral continue to be so; those that
                    are moral continue in their way of life. Angela Blue is a character that anyone
                    would admire while Eugene Witla is quite the reverse. But whether or not we
                    admire the characters, we feel that they are all powers either for good or evil,
                    and that everyone of them is contributing something to life and, as it were,
                    acting as food that goes into the cosmic hopper.
                Only to thinking people can "The 'Genius'"
                    appeal, and not to all of them. To those who put the constructions of the novel
                         after the plot and the incidental accounts of
                    immoralities, the book may be of no interest, but to those who see the careful
                    way in which the characters develop under the hand of the novelist, and who can
                    sense the form, organization, and rhythm of the book, the appeal will be
                    instantaneous.
                It has been urged that this book is detrimental to the morals of the young and
                    might have a bad effect upon people with weak moral sense, but are thousands of
                    perfectly normal and responsible people to be denied this form of aesthetic
                    stimulation simply because it is harmful to children and perverts? In addition
                    it has not been established by the New York Society for the Suppression of Vice
                    that the book has been read by children and perverts; it has only been stated
                    that their moral sense might be weakened if they did read it.
                The proposition reduces itself to this:--Are literary works of sthetic value to
                    be published for the benefit of the many safe and sane people who read them for
                    sthetic stimulation or are such works to be suppressed for the benefit of the
                    young and perverted who might become demoralized if they chanced to read them?
                    The answer ought to be obvious to every thinking mind. Only people of culture
                    and education pay any attention to the works of great men, and the general
                    public never becomes interested until its attention is called to some salacious
                    morsel to whet its lewd appetites. For years America has struggled for literary
                    recognition without much encouragement from the rest of the world, the reason
                    being that we have been too Puritanic in our attitude toward life and art; and
                    if after all these years, it is decided that "The
                    'Genius'" is to be suppressed, we shall have killed
                    the only evidence that we have had that American letters contain the same
                    virility that characterizes the spirit of the country, and that we have freed
                    ourselves of the narrow Puritanism with which we have been not unjustly charged.
                    In the case of "The 'Genius,' " American
                    letters are on trial, and the literary world will watch with interest the
                    verdict. It is earnestly hoped that to every honest mind will come the
                    conviction that "The 'Genius' " is a work of
                    literary excellence and not an immoral tale calculated to fire prurient minds
                    and to besmirch the morals of infants and imbeciles.
                MERTON S. YEWDALE.
            
            
            
                "Eugene Witla, wilt thou have this woman to thy wedded wife, to live
                    together after God's ordinance in the holy estate of matrimony? Wilt
                    thou love her, comfort her, honour her, and keep her in sickness and in health;
                    and forsaking all others, keep thee only unto her, so long as ye both shall
                    live?"
                "I will."
            
        
        
            
            
                The "Genius"
                
                    BOOK I YOUTH
                    
                    THE "GENIUS"
                    
                        CHAPTER I
                        
                            THIS story has its beginnings in the town of
                            Alexandria, Illinois, between 1884 and 1889, at the
                            time when the place had a population of somewhere near ten thousand.
                            There was about it just enough of the air of a city to relieve it of the
                            sense of rural life. It had one street-car line, a theatre,of rather, an
                            opera house, so-called (why no one might say, for no opera was ever
                            performed there)two railroads, with their stations, and a business
                            district, composed of four brisk sides to a public square. In the square
                            were the county court-house and four newspapers. These two morning and
                            two evening papers made the population fairly aware of the fact that
                            life was full of issues, local and national, and that there were many
                            interesting and varied things to do. On the edge of town, several lakes
                            and a pretty streamperhaps Alexandria's most pleasant
                            featuregave it an atmosphere not unakin to that of a moderate-priced
                            summer resort. Architecturally the town was not new. It was mostly built
                            of wood, as all American towns were at this time, but laid out prettily
                            in some sections, with houses that sat back in great yards, far from the
                            streets, with flower beds, brick walks, and green trees as concomitants
                            of a comfortable home life. Alexandria was a city of young Americans.
                            Its spirit was young. Life was all before almost everybody. It was
                            really good to be alive.
                        In one part of this city there lived a family which in its character and
                            composition might well have been considered typically American and
                            middle western. It was not by any means pooror, at least, did not
                            consider itself so; it was in no sense rich. Thomas Jefferson Witla, the
                            father, was a sewing machine agent with the general agency in that
                            county of one of the best known and best selling machines made. From
                            each twenty, thirty-five or sixty-dollar machine which he sold, he took
                            a profit of thirty-five per cent. The sale of machines was not great,
                            but it was enough to yield him nearly two thousand dollars a year; and
                            on that he had managed to buy a house and lot, to furnish it
                            comfortably, to send his children to school, and to maintain a local
                            store on the public square where the latest styles of machines were
                            displayed. He also took old machines of other makes in  exchange, allowing ten to fifteen dollars
                            on the purchase price of a new machine. He also repaired machines,and
                            with that peculiar energy of the American mind, he tried to do a little
                            insurance business in addition. His first idea was that his son, Eugene
                            Tennyson Witla, might take charge of this latter work, once he became
                            old enough and the insurance trade had developed sufficiently. He did
                            not know what his son might turn out to be, but it was always well to
                            have an anchor to windward.
                        He was a quick, wiry, active man of no great stature, sandy-haired, with
                            blue eyes with noticeable eye-brows, an eagle nose, and a rather radiant
                            and ingratiating smile. Service as a canvassing salesman, endeavoring to
                            persuade recalcitrant wives and indifferent or conservative husbands to
                            realize that they really needed a new machine in their home, had taught
                            him caution, tact, savoir faire. He knew how to approach people
                            pleasantly. His wife thought too much so.
                        Certainly he was honest, hard working, and thrifty. They had been waiting
                            a long time for the day when they could say they owned their own home
                            and had a little something laid away for emergencies. That day had come,
                            and life was not half bad. Their house was neat,white with green
                            shutters, surrounded by a yard with well kept flower beds, a smooth
                            lawn, and some few shapely and broad spreading trees. There was a front
                            porch with rockers, a swing under one tree, a hammock under another, a
                            buggy and several canvassing wagons in a nearby stable. Witla liked
                            dogs, so there were two collies. Mrs. Witla liked live things, so there
                            was a canary bird, a cat, some chickens, and a bird house set aloft on a
                            pole where a few blue-birds made their home. It was a nice little place,
                            and Mr. and Mrs. Witla were rather proud of it.
                        Miriam Witla was a good wife to her husband. A daughter of a hay and
                            grain dealer in Wooster, a small town near Alexandria in McLean County,
                            she had never been farther out into the world than Springfield and
                            Chicago. She had gone to Springfield as a very young girl, to see
                            Lincoln buried, and once with her husband she had gone to the state fair
                            or exposition which was held annually in those days on the lake front in
                            Chicago. She was well preserved, good looking, poetic under a marked
                            outward reserve. It was she who had insisted upon naming her only son
                            Eugene Tennyson, a tribute at once to a brother Eugene, and to the
                            celebrated romanticist of verse, because she had been so impressed with
                            his "Idylls of the King."
                        Eugene Tennyson seemed rather strong to Witla pre, as the name of a
                            middle-western American, boy, but he loved his wife  and gave her her way in most things. He rather liked the
                            names of Sylvia and Myrtle with which she had christened the two girls.
                            All three of the children were good looking,Sylvia, a girl of
                            twenty-one, with black hair, dark eyes, full blown like a rose, healthy,
                            active, smiling. Myrtle was of a less vigorous constitution, small,
                            pale, shy, but intensely sweetlike the flower she was named after, her
                            mother said. She was inclined to be studious and reflective, to read
                            verse and dream. The young bloods of the high school were all crazy to
                            talk to Myrtle and to walk with her, but they could find no words. And
                            she herself did not know what to say to them.
                        Eugene Witla was the apple of his family's eye, younger than
                            either of his two sisters by two years. He had straight smooth black
                            hair, dark almond-shaped eyes, a straight nose, a shapely but not
                            aggressive chin; his teeth were even and white, showing with a curious
                            delicacy when he smiled, as if he were proud of them. He was not very
                            strong to begin with, moody, and to a notable extent artistic. Because
                            of a weak stomach and a semi-anmic condition, he did not really appear
                            as strong as he was. He had emotion, fire, longings, that were concealed
                            behind a wall of reserve. He was shy, proud, sensitive, and very
                            uncertain of himself.
                        When at home he lounged about the house, reading Dickens, Thackeray,
                            Scott and Poe. He browsed idly through one book after another, wondering
                            about life. The great cities appealed to him. He thought of travel as a
                            wonderful thing. In school he read Taine and Gibbon between recitation
                            hours, wondering at the luxury and beauty of the great courts of the
                            world. He cared nothing for grammar, nothing for mathematics, nothing
                            for botany or physics, except odd bits here and there. Curious facts
                            would strike himthe composition of clouds, the composition of water, the
                            chemical elements of the earth. He liked to lie in the hammock at home,
                            spring, summer or fall, and look at the blue sky showing through the
                            trees. A soaring buzzard poised in speculative flight held his attention
                            fixedly. The wonder of a snowy cloud, high piled like wool, and drifting
                            as an island, was like a song to him. He had wit, a keen sense of humor,
                            a sense of pathos. Sometimes he thought he would draw; sometimes write.
                            He had a little talent for both, he thought, but did practically nothing
                            with either. He would sketch now and then, but only fragmentsa small
                            roof-top, with smoke curling from a chimney and birds flying; a bit of
                            water with a willow bending over it and perhaps a boat anchored; a mill
                            pond with ducks afloat, and a boy or woman on the  bank. He really had no great talent for interpretation at
                            this time, only an intense sense of beauty. The beauty of a bird in
                            flight, a rose in bloom, a tree swaying in the windthese held him. He
                            would walk the streets of his native town at night, admiring the
                            brightness of the store windows, the sense of youth and enthusiasm that
                            went with a crowd; the sense of love and comfort and home that spoke
                            through the glowing windows of houses set back among trees.
                        He admired girls,was mad about them,but only about those who were truly
                            beautiful. There were two or three in his school who reminded him of
                            poetic phrases he had come across"beauty like a tightened
                            bow," "thy hyacinth hair, thy classic face,"
                            "a dancing shape, an image gay"but he could not talk
                            to them with ease. They were beautiful but so distant. He invested them
                            with more beauty than they had; the beauty was in his own soul. But he
                            did not know that. One girl whose yellow hair lay upon her neck in great
                            yellow braids like ripe corn, was constantly in his thoughts. He
                            worshiped her from afar but she never knew. She never knew what solemn
                            black eyes burned at her when she was not looking. She left Alexandria,
                            her family moving to another town, and in time he recovered, for there
                            is much of beauty. But the color of her hair and the wonder of her neck
                            stayed with him always.
                        There was some plan on the part of Witla to send these children to
                            college, but none of them showed any great desire for education. They
                            were perhaps wiser than books, for they were living in the realm of
                            imagination and feeling. Sylvia longed to be a mother, and was married
                            at twenty-one to Henry Burgess, the son of Benjamin C. Burgess, editor
                            of the Morning Appeal. There was a baby the first
                            year. Myrtle was dreaming through algebra and trigonometry, wondering
                            whether she would teach or get married, for the moderate prosperity of
                            the family demanded that she do something. Eugene mooned through his
                            studies, learning nothing practical. He wrote a little, but his efforts
                            at sixteen were puerile. He drew, but there was no one to tell him
                            whether there was any merit in the things he did or not. Practical
                            matters were generally without significance to him. But he was overawed
                            by the fact that the world demanded practical servicebuying and selling
                            like his father, clerking in stores, running big business. It was a
                            confusing maze, and he wondered, even at this age, what was to become of
                            him. He did not object to the kind of work his father was doing, but it
                            did not interest him. For himself he knew it would be a pointless,
                            dreary way of making a living, and as for insurance, that was equally
                                 bad. He could hardly bring himself to
                            read through the long rigamarole of specifications which each insurance
                            paper itemized. There were timesevenings and Saturdayswhen he clerked in
                            his father's store, but it was painful work. His mind was not
                            in it.
                        As early as his twelfth year his father had begun to see that Eugene was
                            not cut out for business, and by the time he was
                            sixteen he was convinced of it. From the trend of his reading and his
                            percentage marks at school, he was equally convinced that the boy was
                            not interested in his studies. Myrtle, who was two classes ahead of him
                            but sometimes in the same room, reported that he dreamed too much. He
                            was always looking out of the window.
                        Eugene's experience with girls had not been very wide. There
                            were those very minor things that occur in early youthgirls whom we
                            furtively kiss, or who furtively kiss usthe latter had been the case
                            with Eugene. He had no particular interest in any one girl. At fourteen
                            he had been picked by a little girl at a party as an affinity, for the
                            evening at least, and in a game of "post-office" had
                            enjoyed the wonder of a girl's arms around him in a dark room
                            and a girl's lips against his; but since then there had been no
                            re-encounter of any kind. He had dreamed of love, with this one
                            experience as a basis, but always in a shy, distant way. He was afraid
                            of girls, and they, to tell the truth, were afraid of him. They could
                            not make him out.
                        But in the fall of his seventeenth year Eugene came into contact with one
                            girl who made a profound impression on him. Stella Appleton was a
                            notably beautiful creature. She was very fair, Eugene's own
                            age, with very blue eyes and a slender sylph-like body. She was gay and
                            debonair in an enticing way, without really realizing how dangerous she
                            was to the average, susceptible male heart. She liked to flirt with the
                            boys because it amused her, and not because she cared for anyone in
                            particular. There was no petty meanness about it, however, for she
                            thought they were all rather nice, the less clever appealing to her
                            almost more than the sophisticated. She may have liked Eugene originally
                            because of his shyness.
                        He saw her first at the beginning of his last school year when she came
                            to the city and entered the second high school class. Her father had
                            come from Moline, Illinois, to take a position as manager of a new
                            pulley manufactory which was just starting. She had quickly become
                            friends with his sister Myrtle, being perhaps attracted by her quiet
                            ways, as Myrtle was by Stella's gaiety.
                        
                        One afternoon, as Myrtle and Stella were on Main Street, walking home
                            from the post office, they met Eugene, who was on his way to visit a boy
                            friend. He was really bashful; and when he saw them approaching he
                            wanted to escape, but there was no way. They saw him, and Stella
                            approached confidently enough. Myrtle was anxious to intercept him,
                            because she had her pretty companion with her.
                        "You haven't been home, have you?" she asked,
                            stopping. This was her chance to introduce Stella; Eugene
                            couldn't escape. "Miss Appleton, this is my brother
                            Eugene."
                        Stella gave him a sunny encouraging smile, and her hand, which he took
                            gingerly. He was plainly nervous.
                        "I'm not very clean," he said apologetically.
                            "I've been helping father fix a buggy."
                        "Oh, we don't mind," said Myrtle.
                            "Where are you going?"
                        "Over to Harry Morris's," he explained.
                        "What for?"
                        "We're going for hickory nuts."
                        "Oh, I wish I had some," said Stella.
                        "I'll bring you some," he volunteered
                            gallantly.
                        She smiled again. "I wish you would."
                        She almost proposed that they should be taken along, but inexperience
                            hindered her.
                        Eugene was struck with all her charm at once. She seemed like one of
                            those unattainable creatures who had swum into his ken a little earlier
                            and disappeared. There was something of the girl with the corn-colored
                            hair about her, only she had been more human, less like a dream. (This
                            girl was fine, delicate, pink, like porcelain. She was fragile and yet
                            virile.) He caught his breath, but he was more or less afraid of her. He
                            did not know what she might be thinking of him.
                        "Well, we're going on to the house," said
                            Myrtle.
                        "I'd go along if I hadn't promised Harry
                            I'd come over."
                        "Oh, that's all right," replied Myrtle.
                            "We don't mind."
                        He withdrew, feeling that he had made a very poor impression.
                            Stella's eyes had been on him in a very inquiring way. She
                            looked after him when he had gone.
                        "Isn't he nice?" she said to Myrtle
                            frankly.
                        "I think so," replied Myrtle; "kind
                            o'. He's too moody, though."
                        "What makes him?"
                        "He isn't very strong."
                        "I think he has a nice smile."
                        "I'll tell him!"
                        
                        "No, please don't! You won't, will
                            you?"
                        "No."
                        "But he has a nice smile."
                        "I'll ask you round to the house some evening and you
                            can meet him again."
                        "I'd like to," said Stella. "It would
                            be a lot of fun."
                        "Come out Saturday evening and stay all night. He's
                            home then."
                        "I will," said Stella. "Won't that be
                            fine!"
                        "I believe you like him!" laughed Myrtle.
                        "I think he's awfully nice," said Stella,
                            simply.
                        The second meeting happened on Saturday evening as arranged, when he came
                            home from his odd day at his father's insurance office. Stella
                            had come to supper. Eugene saw her through the open sitting room door,
                            as he bounded upstairs to change his clothes, for he had a fire of youth
                            which no sickness of stomach or weakness of lungs could overcome at this
                            age. A thrill of anticipation ran over his body. He took especial pains
                            with his toilet, adjusting a red tie to a nicety, and parting his hair
                            carefully in the middle. He came down after a while, conscious that he
                            had to say something smart, worthy of himself, or she would not see how
                            attractive he was; and yet he was fearful as to the result. When he
                            entered the sitting room she was sitting with his sister before an open
                            fire-place, the glow of a lamp with a red-flowered shade warmly
                            illuminating the room. It was a commonplace room, with its blue
                            cloth-covered center table, its chairs of stereotyped factory design,
                            and its bookcase of novels and histories, but it was homey, and the
                            sense of hominess was strong.
                        Mrs. Witla was in and out occasionally, looking for things which
                            appertained to her functions as house-mother. The father was not home
                            yet; he would get there by supper-time, having been to some outlying
                            town of the county trying to sell a machine. Eugene was indifferent to
                            his presence or absence. Mr. Witla had a fund of humor which extended to
                            joking with his son and daughters, when he was feeling good, to noting
                            their budding interest in the opposite sex; to predicting some
                            commonplace climax to their one grand passion when it should come. He
                            was fond of telling Myrtle that she would one day marry a horse-doctor.
                            As for Eugene, he predicted a certain Elsa Brown, who, his wife said,
                            had greasy curls. This did not irritate either Myrtle or Eugene. It even
                            brought a wry smile to Eugene's face for he was fond of a jest;
                            but he saw his father pretty clearly even at this age. He saw the
                            smallness of his business, the 
                            ridiculousness of any such profession having any claim on him. He never
                            wanted to say anything, but there was in him a burning opposition to the
                            commonplace, a molten pit in a crater of reserve, which smoked ominously
                            now and then for anyone who could have read. Neither his father nor his
                            mother understood him. To them he was a peculiar boy, dreamy, sickly,
                            unwitting, as yet, of what he really wanted.
                        "Oh, here you are!" said Myrtle, when he came in.
                            "Come and sit down."
                        Stella gave him an enticing smile.
                        He walked to the mantel-piece and stood there, posing. He wanted to
                            impress this girl, and he did not quite know how. He was almost lost for
                            anything to say.
                        "You can't guess what we've been
                            doing!" his sister chirped helpfully.
                        "Wellwhat?" he replied blankly.
                        "You ought to guess. Can't you be nice and
                            guess?"
                        "One guess, anyhow," put in Stella.
                        "Toasting pop-corn," he ventured with a half smile.
                        "You're warm." It was Myrtle speaking.
                        Stella looked at him with round blue eyes. "One more
                            guess," she suggested.
                        "Chestnuts!" he guessed.
                        She nodded her head gaily. "What hair!" he thought.
                            Then"Where are they?"
                        "Here's one," laughed his new acquaintance,
                            holding out a tiny hand.
                        Under her laughing encouragement he was finding his voice.
                            "Stingy!" he said.
                        "Now isn't that mean," she exclaimed.
                            "I gave him the only one I had. Don't you give him any
                            of yours, Myrtle."
                        "I take it back," he pleaded. "I
                            didn't know."
                        "I won't!" exclaimed Myrtle. "Here,
                            Stella," and she held out the few nuts she had left,
                            "take these, and don't you give him any!" She
                            put them in Stella's eager hands.
                        He saw her meaning. It was an invitation to a contest. She wanted him to
                            try to make her give him some. He fell in with her plan.
                        "Here!" He stretched out his palm.
                            "That's not right!"
                        She shook her head.
                        "One, anyhow," he insisted.
                        Her head moved negatively from side to side slowly.
                        "One," he pleaded, drawing near.
                        Again the golden negative. But her hand was at the side  nearest him, where he could seize it. She
                            started to pass its contents behind her to the other hand but he jumped
                            and caught it.
                        "Myrtle! Quick!" she called.
                        Myrtle came. It was a three-handed struggle. In the midst of the contest
                            Stella twisted and rose to her feet. Her hair brushed his face. He held
                            her tiny hand firmly. For a moment he looked into her eyes. What was it?
                            He could not say. Only he half let go and gave her the victory.
                        "There," she smiled. "Now I'll give
                            you one."
                        He took it, laughing. What he wanted was to take her in his arms.
                        A little while before supper his father came in and sat down, but
                            presently took a Chicago paper and went into the dining room to read.
                            Then his mother called them to the table, and he sat by Stella. He was
                            intensely interested in what she did and said. If her lips moved he
                            noted just how. When her teeth showed he thought they were lovely. A
                            little ringlet on her forehead beckoned him like a golden finger. He
                            felt the wonder of the poetic phrase, "the shining strands of
                            her hair."
                        After dinner he and Myrtle and Stella went back to the sitting room. His
                            father stayed behind to read, his mother to wash dishes. Myrtle left the
                            room after a bit to help her mother, and then these two were left alone.
                            He hadn't much to say, now that they were togetherhe
                            couldn't talk. Something about her beauty kept him silent.
                        "Do you like school?" she asked after a time. She felt
                            as if they must talk.
                        "Only fairly well," he replied. "I'm
                            not much interested. I think I'll quit one of these days and go
                            to work."
                        "What do you expect to do?"
                        "I don't know yetI'd like to be an
                            artist." He confessed his ambition for the first time in his
                            lifewhy, he could not have said.
                        Stella took no note of it.
                        "I was afraid they wouldn't let me enter second year
                            high school, but they did," she remarked. "The
                            superintendent at Moline had to write the superintendent
                            here."
                        "They're mean about those things," he
                            cogitated.
                        She got up and went to the bookcase to look at the books. He followed
                            after a little.
                        "Do you like Dickens?" she asked.
                        He nodded his head solemnly in approval. "Pretty much,"
                            he said.
                        
                        "I can't like him. He's too long drawn out. I
                            like Scott better."
                        "I like Scott," he said.
                        "I'll tell you a lovely book that I like." She
                            paused, her lips parted trying to remember the name. She lifted her hand
                            as though to pick the title out of the air. "The Fair
                            God," she exclaimed at last.
                        "Yesit's fine," he approved. "I
                            thought the scene in the old Aztec temple where they were going to
                            sacrifice Ahwahee was so wonderful!"
                        "Oh, yes, I liked that," she added. She pulled out
                            "Ben Hur" and turned its leaves idly. "And
                            this was so good."
                        "Wonderful!"
                        They paused and she went to the window, standing under the cheap lace
                            curtains. It was a moonlight night. The rows of trees that lined the
                            street on either side were leafless; the grass brown and dead. Through
                            the thin, interlaced twigs that were like silver filigree they could see
                            the lamps of other houses shining through half-drawn blinds. A man went
                            by, a black shadow in the half-light.
                        "Isn't it lovely?" she said.
                        Eugene came near. "It's fine," he
                            answered.
                        "I wish it were cold enough to skate. Do you skate?"
                            She turned to him.
                        "Yes, indeed," he replied.
                        "My, it's so nice on a moonlit night. I used to skate a
                            lot at Moline."
                        "We skate a lot here. There're two lakes, you
                            know."
                        He thought of the clear crystal nights when the ice of Green Lake had
                            split every so often with a great resounding rumble. He thought of the
                            crowds of boys and girls shouting, the distant shadows, the stars. Up to
                            now he had never found any girl to skate with successfully. He had never
                            felt just easy with anyone. He had tried it, but once he had fallen with
                            a girl, and it had almost cured him of skating forever. He felt as
                            though he could skate with Stella. He felt that she might like to skate
                            with him.
                        "When it gets colder we might go," he ventured.
                            "Myrtle skates."
                        "Oh, that'll be fine!" she applauded.
                        Still she looked out into the street.
                        After a bit she came back to the fire and stood before him, pensively
                            looking down.
                        "Do you think your father will stay here?" he
                            asked.
                        
                        "He says so. He likes it very much."
                        "Do you?"
                        "Yesnow."
                        "Why now?"
                        
                        "Oh, I didn't like it at first."
                        "Why?"
                        "Oh, I guess it was because I didn't know anybody. I
                            like it though, now." She lifted her eyes.
                        He drew a little nearer.
                        "It's a nice place," he said, "but
                            there isn't much for me here. I think I'll leave next
                            year."
                        "Where do you think you'll go?"
                        "To Chicago. I don't want to stay here."
                        She turned her body toward the fire and he moved to a chair behind her,
                            leaning on its back. She felt him there rather close, but did not move.
                            He was surprising himself.
                        "Aren't you ever coming back?" she asked.
                        "Maybe. It all depends. I suppose so."
                        "I shouldn't think you'd want to leave
                            yet."
                        "Why?"
                        "You say it's so nice."
                        He made no answer and she looked over her shoulder. He was leaning very
                            much toward her.
                        "Will you skate with me this winter?" he asked
                            meaningly.
                        She nodded her head.
                        Myrtle came in.
                        "What are you two talking about?" she asked.
                        "The fine skating we have here," he said.
                        "I love to skate," she exclaimed.
                        "So do I," added Stella. "It's
                            heavenly."
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER II
                        
                            SOME of the incidents of this courtship that followed,
                            ephemeral as it was, left a profound impression on Eugene's
                            mind. They met to skate not long after, for the snow came and the ice
                            and there was wonderful skating on Green Lake. The frost was so
                            prolonged that men with horses and ice-saws were cutting blocks a foot
                            thick over at Miller's Point, where the ice houses were. Almost
                            every day after Thanksgiving there were crowds of boys and girls from
                            the schools scooting about like water skippers. Eugene could not always
                            go on week evenings and Saturdays because he had to assist his father at
                            the store. But at regular intervals he could ask Myrtle to get Stella
                            and let them all go together at night. And at other times he would ask
                            her to go alone. Not infrequently she did.
                        On one particular occasion they were below a group of houses which crept
                            near the lake on high ground. (The moon was up, its wooing rays
                            reflected in the polished surfaces of the ice. Through the black masses
                            of trees that lined the shore could be seen the glow of windows, yellow
                            and homely.) Eugene and Stella had slowed up to turn about, having left
                            the crowd of skaters some distance back. Stella's golden curls
                            were covered, except for a few ringlets, with a French cap; her body, to
                            below the hips, encased in a white wool Jersey, close-fitting and
                            shapely. The skirt below was a grey mixture of thick wool and the
                            stockings were covered by white woolen leggings. She looked tempting and
                            knew it.
                        Suddenly, as they turned, one of her skates came loose and she hobbled
                            and exclaimed about it. "Wait," said Eugene,
                            "I'll fix it."
                        She stood before him and he fell to his knees, undoing the twisted strap.
                            When he had the skate off and ready for her foot he looked up, and she
                            looked down on him, smiling. He dropped the skate and flung his arms
                            around her hips, laying his head against her waist.
                        "You're a bad boy," she said.
                        For a few minutes she kept silent, for as the center of this lovely scene
                            she was divine. While he held her she pulled off his wool cap and laid
                            her hand on his hair. It almost brought tears to his eyes, he was so
                            happy. At the same time it awakened a tremendous passion. He clutched
                            her significantly.
                        
                        "Fix my skate, now," she said wisely.
                        He got up to hug her but she would not let him.
                        "No, no," she protested. "You mustn't
                            do like that. I won't come with you if you do."
                        "Oh, Stella!" he pleaded.
                        "I mean it," she insisted. "You
                            mustn't do like that."
                        He subsided, hurt, half angry. But he feared her will. She was really not
                            as ready for caresses as he had thought.
                        Another time a sleighing party was given by some school girls, and
                            Stella, Eugene and Myrtle were invited. It was a night of snow and
                            stars, not too cold but bracing. A great box-wagon had been dismantled
                            of its body and the latter put on runners and filled with straw and warm
                            robes. Eugene and Myrtle, like the others, had been picked up at their
                            door after the sleigh had gone the rounds of some ten peaceful little
                            homes. Stella was not in yet, but in a little while her house was
                            reached.
                        "Get in here," called Myrtle, though she was half the
                            length of the box away from Eugene. Her request made him angry.
                            "Sit by me," he called, fearful that she would not.
                            She climbed in by Myrtle but finding the space not to her liking moved
                            farther down. Eugene made a special effort to have room by him, and she
                            came there as though by accident. He drew a buffalo robe around her and
                            thrilled to think that she was really there. The sleigh went jingling
                            around the town for others, and finally struck out into the country. (It
                            passed great patches of dark woods silent in the snow, little white
                            frame farmhouses snuggled close to the ground, and with windows that
                            gleamed in (a vague romantic way.) The stars were countless and keen.)
                            The whole scene made a tremendous impression on him, for he was in love,
                            and here beside him, in the shadow, her face palely outlined, was this
                            girl. He could make out the sweetness of her cheek, her eyes, the
                            softness of her hair.
                        There was a good deal of chatter and singing, and in the midst of these
                            distractions he managed to slip an arm about her waist, to get her hand
                            in his, to look close into her eyes, trying to divine their expression.
                            She was always coy with him, not wholly yielding. Three or four times he
                            kissed her cheek furtively and once her mouth. In a dark place he pulled
                            her vigorously to him, putting a long, sensuous kiss on her lips that
                            frightened her.
                        "No," she protested, nervously. "You
                            mustn't."
                        He ceased for a time, feeling that he had pressed his advantage too
                            closely. But the night in all its beauty, and she in hers made a lasting
                            impression.
                        
                        "I think we ought to get Eugene into newspaper work or something
                            like that," Witla senior suggested to his wife.
                        "It looks as though that's all he would be good for, at
                            least now," replied Mrs. Witla, who was satisfied that her boy
                            had not yet found himself. "I think he'll do something
                            better later on. His health isn't very good, you
                            know."
                        Witla half suspected that his boy was naturally lazy, but he
                            wasn't sure. He suggested that Benjamin C. Burgess, the
                            prospective father-in-law of Sylvia and the editor and proprietor of the
                                Morning Appeal, might give him a place as a
                            reporter or type-setter in order that he might learn the business from
                            the ground up. The Appeal carried few employees, but
                            Mr. Burgess might have no objections to starting Eugene as a reporter if
                            he could write, or as a student of type-setting, or both. He appealed to
                            Burgess one day on the street.
                        "Say, Burgess," he said, "you
                            wouldn't have a place over in your shop for that boy of mine,
                            would you? He likes to scribble a little, I notice. I think he pretends
                            to draw a little, too, though I guess it doesn't amount to
                            much. He ought to get into something. He isn't doing anything
                            at school. Maybe he could learn type-setting. It wouldn't hurt
                            him to begin at the bottom if he's going to follow that line.
                            It wouldn't matter what you paid him to begin
                            with."
                        Burgess thought. He had seen Eugene around town, knew no harm of him
                            except that he was lackadaisical and rather moody.
                        "Send him in to see me some day," he replied
                            noncommittally. "I might do something for him."
                        "I'd certainly be much obliged to you if you
                            would," said Witla. "He is not doing much good as it
                            is now," and the two men parted.
                        He went home and told Eugene. "Burgess says he might give you a
                            position as a type-setter or a reporter on the Appeal
                            if you'd come in and see him some day," he explained,
                            looking over to where his son was reading by the lamp.
                        "Does he?" replied Eugene calmly. "Well, I
                            can't write. I might set type. Did you ask him?"
                        "Yes," said Witla. "You'd better go
                            to him some day."
                        Eugene bit his lip. He realized this was a commentary on his loafing
                            propensities. He wasn't doing very well, that was certain.
                            Still type-setting was no bright field for a person of his temperament.
                            "I will," he concluded, "when
                            school's over."
                        "Better speak before school ends. Some of the other fellows  might ask for it around that time. It
                            wouldn't hurt you to try your hand at it."
                        "I will," said Eugene obediently.
                        He stopped in one sunny April afternoon at Mr. Burgess' office.
                            It was on the ground floor of the three-story Appeal
                            building in the public square. Mr. Burgess, a fat man, slightly bald,
                            looked at him quizzically over his steel rimmed spectacles. What little
                            hair he had was gray.
                        "So you think you would like to go into the newspaper business,
                            do you?" queried Burgess.
                        "I'd like to try my hand at it," replied the
                            boy. "I'd like to see whether I like it."
                        "I can tell you right now there's very little in it.
                            Your father says you like to write."
                        "I'd like to well enough, but I don't think I
                            can. I wouldn't mind learning type-setting. If I ever could
                            write I'd be perfectly willing to."
                        "When do you think you'd like to start?"
                        "At the end of school, if it's all the same to
                            you."
                        "It doesn't make much difference. I'm not
                            really in need of anybody, but I could use you. Would you be satisfied
                            with five a week?"
                        "Yes, sir."
                        "Well, come in when you are ready. I'll see what I can
                            do." He waved the prospective type-setter away with a movement
                            of his fat hand, and turned to his black walnut desk, dingy, covered
                            with newspapers, and lit by a green shaded electric light. Eugene went
                            out, the smell of fresh printing ink in his nose, and the equally
                            aggressive smell of damp newspapers. It was going to be an interesting
                            experience, he thought, but perhaps a waste of time. He did not think so
                            much of Alexandria. Some time he was going to get out of it.
                        The office of the Appeal was not different from that of
                            any other country newspaper office within the confines of our two
                            hemispheres. On the ground floor in front was the business office, and
                            in the rear the one large flat bed press and the job presses. On the
                            second floor was the composing room with its rows of type cases on their
                            high racksfor this newspaper was, like most other country newspapers,
                            still set by hand; and in front was the one dingy office of the
                            so-called editor, or managing editor, or city editorfor all three were
                            the same person, a Mr. Caleb Williams whom Burgess had picked up in
                            times past from heaven knows where. Williams was a small, lean, wiry
                            man, with a black pointed beard and a glass eye which fixed you oddly
                                 with its black pupil. He was
                            talkative, skipped about from duty to duty, wore most of the time a
                            green shade pulled low over his forehead, and smoked a brown briar pipe.
                            He had a fund of knowledge, piled up in metropolitan journalistic
                            experience, but he was anchored here with a wife and three children,
                            after sailing, no doubt, a chartless sea of troubles, and was glad to
                            talk life and experiences after office hours with almost anybody. It
                            took him from eight in the morning until two in the afternoon to gather
                            what local news there was, and either write it or edit it. He seemed to
                            have a number of correspondents who sent him weekly batches of news from
                            surrounding points. The Associated Press furnished him with a few minor
                            items by telegraph, and there was a "patent insides,"
                            two pages of fiction, household hints, medicine ads. and what not, which
                            saved him considerable time and stress. Most of the news which came to
                            him received short shrift in the matter of editing. "In Chicago
                            we used to give a lot of attention to this sort of thing,"
                            Williams was wont to declare to anyone who was near, "but you
                            can't do it down here. The readers really don't expect
                            it. They're looking for local items. I always look after the
                            local items pretty sharp."
                        Mr. Burgess took care of the advertising sections. In fact he solicited
                            advertising personally, saw that it was properly set up as the
                            advertiser wanted it, and properly placed according to the convenience
                            of the day and the rights and demands of others. He was the politician
                            of the concern, the handshaker, the guider of its policy. He wrote
                            editorials now and then, or, with Williams, decided just what their
                            sense must be, met the visitors who came to the office to see the
                            editor, and arbitrated all known forms of difficulties. He was at the
                            beck and call of certain Republican party-leaders in the county; but
                            that seemed natural, for he was a Republican himself by temperament and
                            disposition. He was appointed postmaster once to pay him for some useful
                            services, but he declined because he was really making more out of his
                            paper than his postmastership would have brought. He received whatever
                            city or county advertising it was in the power of the Republican leaders
                            to give him, and so he did very well. The complications of his political
                            relationships Williams knew in part, but they never troubled that
                            industrious soul. He dispensed with moralizing. "I have to make
                            a living for myself, my wife and three children. That's enough
                            to keep me going without bothering my head about other people."
                            So this office was really run very quietly, efficiently, and in most
                            ways pleasantly. It was a sunny place to work.
                        
                        Witla, who came here at the end of his eleventh school year and when he
                            had just turned seventeen, was impressed with the personality of Mr.
                            Williams. He liked him. He came to like a Jonas Lyle who worked at what
                            might be called the head desk of the composing room, and a certain John
                            Summers who worked at odd timeswhenever there was an extra rush of job
                            printing. He learned very quickly that John Summers, who was fifty-five,
                            grey, and comparatively silent, was troubled with weak lungs and drank.
                            Summers would slip out of the office at various times in the day and be
                            gone from five to fifteen minutes. No one ever said anything, for there
                            was no pressure here. What work was to be done was done. Jonas Lyle was
                            of a more interesting nature. He was younger by ten years, stronger,
                            better built, but still a character. He was semi-phlegmatic,
                            philosophic, feebly literary. He had worked, as Eugene found out in the
                            course of time, in nearly every part of the United StatesDenver,
                            Portland, St. Paul, St. Louis, where not, and had a fund of
                            recollections of this proprietor and that. Whenever he saw a name of
                            particular distinction in the newspapers he was apt to bring the paper
                            to Williamsand later, when they became familiar, to Eugeneand say,
                            "I knew that fellow out in. He was postmaster (or what not) at
                            X. He's come up considerably since I knew him." In
                            most cases he did not know these celebrities personally at all, but he
                            knew of them, and the echo of their fame sounding in this out-of-the-way
                            corner of the world impressed him. He was a careful reader of proof for
                            Williams in a rush, a quick type-setter, a man who stayed by his tasks
                            faithfully. But he hadn't got anywhere in the world, for, after
                            all, he was little more than a machine. Eugene could see that at a
                            glance.
                        It was Lyle who taught him the art of type-setting. He demonstrated the
                            first day the theory of the squares or pockets in a case, how some
                            letters were placed more conveniently to the hand than others, why some
                            letters were well represented as to quantity, why capitals were used in
                            certain offices for certain purposes, in others not. "Now on
                            the Chicago Tribune we used to italicize the names of
                            churches, boats, books, hotels, and things of that sort. That's
                            the only paper I ever knew to do that," he remarked. What
                            slugs, sticks, galleys, turnovers, meant, came rapidly to the surface.
                            That the fingers would come to recognize weights of leads by the touch,
                            that a letter would almost instinctively find its way back to its proper
                            pocket, even though you were not thinking, once you became expert, were
                            facts which he cheerfully communicated. He wanted his knowledge taken
                            seriously,  and this serious attention,
                            Eugene, because of his innate respect for learning of any kind, was only
                            too glad to give him. He did not know what he wanted to do, but he knew
                            quite well that he wanted to see everything. This shop was interesting
                            to him for some little time for this reason, for though he soon found
                            that he did not want to be a type-setter or a reporter, or indeed
                            anything much in connection with a country newspaper, he was learning
                            about life. He worked at his desk cheerfully, smiling out upon the
                            world, which indicated its presence to him through an open window, read
                            the curious bits of news or opinion or local advertisements as he set
                            them up, and dreamed of what the world might have in store for him. He
                            was not vastly ambitious as yet, but hopeful and, withal, a little
                            melancholy. He could see boys and girls whom he knew, idling in the
                            streets or on the corner squares; he could see where Ted Martinwood was
                            driving by in his father's buggy, or George Anderson was going
                            up the street with the air of someone who would never need to work.
                            George's father owned the one and only hotel. There were
                            thoughts in his mind of fishing, boating, lolling somewhere with some
                            pretty girl, but alas, girls did not apparently take to him so very
                            readily. He was too shy. He thought it must be nice to be rich. So he
                            dreamed.
                        Eugene was at that age when he wished to express himself in ardent
                            phrases. He was also at the age when bashfulness held him in reserve,
                            even though he were in love and intensely emotional. He could only say
                            to Stella what seemed trivial things, and look his intensity, whereas it
                            was the trivial things that were most pleasing to her, not the
                            intensity. She was even then beginning to think he was a little strange,
                            a little too tense for her disposition. Yet she liked him. It became
                            generally understood around town that Stella was his
                            girl. School day mating usually goes that way in a small city or
                            village. He was seen to go out with her. His father teased him. Her
                            mother and father deemed this a manifestation of calf love, not so much
                            on her part, for they were aware of her tendency to hold lightly any
                            manifestation of affection on the part of boys, but on his. They thought
                            his sentimentalism would soon be wearisome to Stella. And they were not
                            far wrong about her. On one occasion at a party given by several high
                            school girls, a "country post office" was organized.
                            That was one of those games which mean kissing only. A system of
                            guessing results in a series of forfeits. If you miss you must be
                            postmaster, and call someone for "mail." Mail means to be kissed in a dark room (where the postmaster
                            stands) by someone whom you like or who likes you. You, as postmaster,
                                 have authority or compulsionhowever
                            you feel about itto call whom you please.
                        In this particular instance Stella, who was caught before Eugene, was
                            under compulsion to call someone to kiss. Her first thought was of him,
                            but on account of the frankness of the deed, and because there was a
                            lurking fear in her of his eagerness, the name she felt impelled to
                            speak was Harvey Rutter. Harvey was a handsome boy whom Stella had met
                            after her first encounter with Eugene. He was not as yet fascinating to
                            her, but pleasing. She had a coquettish desire to see what he was like.
                            This was her first direct chance.
                        He stepped gaily in, and Eugene was at once insane with jealousy. He
                            could not understand why she should treat him in that way. When it came
                            to his turn he called for Bertha Shoemaker, whom he admired, and who was
                            sweet in a way, but who was as nothing to Stella in his estimation. The
                            pain of kissing her when he really wanted the other girl was great. When
                            he came out Stella saw moodiness in his eyes, but chose to ignore it. He
                            was obviously half-hearted and downcast in his simulation of joy.
                        A second chance came to her and this time she called him. He went, but
                            was in a semi-defiant mood. He wanted to punish her. When they met in
                            the dark she expected him to put his arms around her. Her own hands were
                            up to about where his shoulders should be. Instead he only took hold of
                            one of her arms with his hand and planted a chilly kiss on her lips. If
                            he had only asked, "Why did you?" or held her close
                            and pleaded with her not to treat him so badly, the relationship might
                            have lasted longer. Instead he said nothing, and she grew defiant and
                            she went out gaily. There was a strain of reserve running between them
                            until the party broke up and he took her home.
                        "You must be melancholy tonight," she remarked, after
                            they had walked two blocks in complete silence. The streets were dark,
                            and their feet sounded hollowly on the brick pavement.
                        "Oh, I'm feeling all right," he replied
                            moodily.
                        "I think it's awfully nice at the Weimers', we
                            always have so much fun there."
                        "Yes, lots of fun," he echoed contemptuously.
                        "Oh, don't be so cross!" she flared.
                            "You haven't any reason for fussing."
                        "Haven't I?"
                        "No, you haven't."
                        "Well if that's the way you feel about it I suppose I
                            haven't. I don't see it that way."
                        
                        "Well, it doesn't make any difference to me how you see
                            it."
                        "Oh, doesn't it?"
                        "No, it doesn't." Her head was up and she was
                            angry.
                        "Well I'm sure then it doesn't to
                            me."
                        There was another silence which endured until they were almost home.
                        "Are you coming to the sociable next Thursday?" he
                            inquired. He was referring to a Methodist evening entertainment which,
                            although he cared very little about it, was a convenience as it enabled
                            him to see her and take her home. He was prompted to ask by the fear
                            that an open rupture was impending.
                        "No," she said. "I don't think I
                            will."
                        "Why not?"
                        "I don't care to."
                        "I think you're mean," he said
                            reprovingly.
                        "I don't care," she replied. "I think
                            you're too bossy. I don't think I like you very much
                            anyhow."
                        His heart contracted ominously.
                        "You can do as you please," he persisted.
                        They reached her gate. It was his wont to kiss her in the shadowto hold
                            her tight for a few minutes in spite of her protests. Tonight, as they
                            approached, he thought of doing it, but she gave him no chance. When
                            they reached the gate she opened it quickly and slipped in.
                            "Good-night," she called.
                        "Good-night," he said, and then as she reached her
                            door, "Stella!"
                        It was open, and she slipped in. He stood in the dark, hurt, sore,
                            oppressed. What should he do? He strolled home cudgelling his brain
                            whether never to speak to or look at her again until she came to him, or
                            to hunt her up and fight it all out with her. She was in the wrong, he
                            knew that. When he went to bed he was grieving over it, and when he
                            awoke it was with him all day.
                        He had been gaining rather rapidly as a student of type-setting, and to a
                            certain extent of the theory of reporting, and he worked diligently and
                                earnesat his proposed trade. He loved to look out
                            of the window and draw, though of late, after knowing Stella so well and
                            coming to quarrel with her because of her indifference, there was little
                            heart in it. This getting to the office, putting on an apron, and
                            starting in on some local correspondence left over from the day before,
                            or some telegraph copy which had been freshly filed on his hook, had its
                            constructive value. Williams endeavored to use him on some local items
                            of news as a reporter, but he was a slow worker and almost a failure at
                                 getting all the facts. He did not
                            appear to know how to interview anybody, and would come back with a
                            story which needed to be filled in from other sources. He really did not
                            understand the theory of news, and Williams could only make it partially
                            clear to him. Mostly he worked at his case, but he did learn some
                            things.
                        For one thing, the theory of advertising began to dawn on him. These
                            local merchants put in the same ads. day after day, and many of them did
                            not change them noticeably. He saw Lyle and Summers taking the same ads.
                            which had appeared unchangingly from month to month in so far as their
                            main features were concerned, and alter only a few words before
                            returning them to the forms. He wondered at the sameness of them, and
                            when, at last, they were given to him to revise he often wished he could
                            change them a little. The language seemed so dull.
                        "Why don't they ever put little drawings in these
                            ads?" he asked Lyle one day. "Don't you think
                            they'd look a little better?"
                        "Oh, I don't know," replied Jonas.
                            "They look pretty good. These people around here
                            wouldn't want anything like that. They'd think it was
                            too fancy." Eugene had seen and in a way studied the ads. in
                            the magazines. They seemed so much more fascinating to him. Why
                            couldn't newspaper ads. be different?"
                        Still it was never given to him to trouble over this problem. Mr. Burgess
                            dealt with the advertisers. He settled how the ads. were to be. He never
                            talked to Eugene or Summers about them, not always to Lyle. He would
                            sometimes have Williams explain just what their character and layout was
                            to be. Eugene was so young that Williams at first did not pay very much
                            attention to him, but after a while he began to realize that there was a
                            personality here, and then he would explain things,why space had to be
                            short for some items and long for others, why county news, news of small
                            towns around Alexandria, and about people, was much more important
                            financially to the paper than the correct reporting of the death of the
                            sultan of Turkey. The most important thing was to get the local names
                            right. "Don't ever misspell them," he once
                            cautioned him. "Don't ever leave out a part of a name
                            if you can help it. People are awfully sensitive about that.
                            They'll stop their subscription if you don't watch
                            out, and you won't know what's the
                            matter."
                        Eugene took all these things to heart. He wanted to see how the thing was
                            done, though basically it seemed to be a little small. In fact people
                            seemed a little small, mostly.
                        One of the things that did interest him was to see the paper  put on the press and run off. He liked to
                            help lock up the forms, and to see how they were imposed and registered.
                            He liked to hear the press run, and to help carry the wet papers to the
                            mailing tables and the distributing counter out in front. The paper
                            hadn't a very large circulation but there was a slight hum of
                            life about that time and he liked it. He liked the sense of getting his
                            hands and face streaked and not caring, and of seeing his hair tousled,
                            in the mirror. He tried to be useful and the various people on the paper
                            came to like him, though he was often a little awkward and slow. He was
                            not strong at this period and his stomach troubled him. He thought, too,
                            that the smell of the ink might affect his lungs, though he did not
                            seriously fear it. In the main it was interesting but small; there was a
                            much larger world outside, he knew that. He hoped to go to it some day;
                            he hoped to go to Chicago.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER III
                        
                            EUGENE grew more and more moody and rather restless
                            under Stella's increasing independence. She grew steadily more
                            indifferent because of his moods. The fact that other boys were crazy
                            for her consideration was a great factor; the fact that one particular
                            boy, Harvey Rutter, was persistently genial, not insistent, really
                            better looking than Eugene and much better tempered, helped a great
                            deal. Eugene saw her with him now and then, saw her go skating with him,
                            or at least with a crowd of which he was a member. Eugene hated him
                            heartily; he hated her at times for not yielding to him wholly; but he
                            was none the less wild over her beauty. It stamped his brain with a type
                            or ideal. Thereafter he knew in a really definite way what womanhood
                            ought to be, to be really beautiful.
                        Another thing it did was to bring home to him a sense of his position in
                            the world. So far he had always been dependent on his parents for food,
                            clothes and spending money, and his parents were not very liberal. He
                            knew other boys who had money to run up to Chicago or down to
                            Springfieldthe latter was nearerto have a Saturday and Sunday lark. No
                            such gaieties were for him. His father would not allow it, or rather
                            would not pay for it. There were other boys who, in consequence of amply
                            provided spending money, were the town dandies. He saw them kicking
                            their heels outside the corner book store, the principal loafing place
                            of the lite, on Wednesdays and Saturdays and sometimes on Sunday
                            evenings preparatory to going somewhere, dressed in a luxury of clothing
                            which was beyond his wildest dreams. Ted Martinwood, the son of the
                            principal drygoods man, had a frock coat in which he sometimes appeared
                            when he came down to the barber shop for a shave before he went to call
                            on his girl. George Anderson was possessed of a dress suit, and wore
                            dancing pumps at all dances. There was Ed Waterbury, who was known to
                            have a horse and runabout of his own. These youths were slightly older,
                            and were interested in girls of a slightly older set, but the point was
                            the same. These things hurt him.
                        He himself had no avenue of progress which, so far as he could see, was
                            going to bring him to any financial prosperity. His father was never
                            going to be rich, anybody could see that. He himself had made no
                            practical progress in schoolworkhe knew 
                            that. He hated insurancesoliciting or writing, despised the sewing
                            machine business, and did not know where he would get with anything
                            which he might like to do in literature or art. His drawing seemed a
                            joke, his writing, or wish for writing, pointless. He was broodingly
                            unhappy.
                        One day Williams, who had been watching him for a long time, stopped at
                            his desk.
                        "I say, Witla, why don't you go to Chicago?"
                            he said. "There's a lot more up there for a boy like
                            you than down here. You'll never get anywhere working on a
                            country newspaper."
                        "I know it," said Eugene.
                        "Now with me it's different," went on
                            Williams. "I've had my rounds. I've got a
                            wife and three children and when a man's got a family he
                            can't afford to take chances. But you're young yet.
                            Why don't you go to Chicago and get on a paper? You could get
                            something."
                        "What could I get?" asked Eugene.
                        "Well, you might get a job as type-setter if you'd join
                            the union. I don't know how good you'd be as a
                            reporterI hardly think that's your line. But you might study
                            art and learn to draw. Newspaper artists make good money."
                        Eugene thought of his art. It wasn't much. He didn't do
                            much with it. Still he thought of Chicago; the world appealed to him. If
                            he could only get out of hereif he could only make more than seven or
                            eight dollars a week. He brooded about this.
                        One Sunday afternoon he and Stella went with Myrtle to Sylvia's
                            home, and after a brief stay Stella announced that she would have to be
                            going; her mother would be expecting her back. Myrtle was for going with
                            her, but altered her mind when Sylvia asked her to stay to tea.
                            "Let Eugene take her home," Sylvia said. Eugene was
                            delighted in his persistent, hopeless way. He was not yet convinced that
                            she could not be won to love. When they walked out in the fresh sweet
                            airit was nearing springhe felt that now he should have a chance of
                            saying something which would be winningwhich would lure her to him.
                        They went out on a street next to the one she lived on quite to the
                            confines of the town. She wanted to turn off at her street, but he had
                            urged her not to. "Do you have to go home just yet?"
                            he asked, pleadingly.
                        "No, I can walk a little way," she replied.
                        They reached a vacant placethe last house a little distance backtalking
                            idly. It was getting hard to make talk. In his  efforts to be entertaining he picked up three twigs to show
                            her how a certain trick in balancing was performed. It consisted in
                            laying two at right angles with each other and with a third, using the
                            latter as an upright. She could not do it, of course. She was not really
                            very much interested. He wanted her to try and when she did, took hold
                            of her right hand to steady her efforts.
                        "No, don't," she said, drawing her hand away.
                            "I can do it."
                        She trifled with the twigs unsuccessfully and was about to let them fall,
                            when he took hold of both her hands. It was so sudden that she could not
                            free herself, and so she looked him straight in the eye.
                        "Let go, Eugene, please let go."
                        He shook his head, gazing at her.
                        "Please let go," she went on. "You
                            mustn't do this. I don't want you to."
                        "Why?"
                        "Because."
                        "Because why?"
                        "Well, because I don't."
                        "Don't you like me any more, Stella, really?"
                            he asked.
                        "I don't think I do, not that way."
                        "But you did."
                        "I thought I did."
                        "Have you changed your mind?"
                        "Yes, I think I have."
                        He dropped her hands and looked at her fixedly and dramatically. The
                            attitude did not appeal to her. They strolled back to the street, and
                            when they neared her door he said, "Well, I suppose
                            there's no use in my coming to see you any more."
                        "I think you'd better not," she said
                            simply.
                        She walked in, never looking back, and instead of going back to his
                            sister's he went home. He was in a very gloomy mood, and after
                            sitting around for a while went to his room. The night fell, and he sat
                            there looking out at the trees and grieving about what he had lost.
                            Perhaps he was not good enough for herhe could not make her love him.
                            Was it that he was not handsome enoughhe did not really consider himself
                            good lookingor what was it, a lack of courage or strength?
                        After a time he noticed that the moon was hanging over the trees like a
                            bright shield in the sky. Two layers of thin clouds were moving in
                            different directions on different levels. He stopped in his cogitations
                            to think where these clouds came from. On sunny days when there were
                            great argosies of them he had  seen them
                            disappear before his eyes, and then, marvel of marvels, reappear out of
                            nothingness. The first time he ever saw this it astonished him greatly,
                            for he had never known up to then what clouds were. Afterward he read
                            about them in his physical geography. Tonight he thought of that, and of
                            the great plains over which these winds swept, and of the grass and
                            treesgreat forests of themmiles and miles. What a wonderful world! Poets
                            wrote about these things, Longfellow, and Bryant, and Tennyson. He
                            thought of "Thanatopsis," and of the
                            "Elegy," both of which he admired greatly. What was
                            this thing, life?
                        Then he came back to Stella with an ache. She was actually gone, and she
                            was so beautiful. She would never really talk to him any more. He would
                            never get to hold her hand or kiss her. He clenched his hands with the
                            hurt. Oh, that night on the ice; that night in the sleigh! How wonderful
                            they were! Finally he undressed and went to bed. He wanted to be aloneto
                            be lonely. On his clean white pillow he lay and dreamed of the things
                            that might have been, kisses, caresses, a thousand joys.
                        One Sunday afternoon he was lying in his hammock thinking, thinking of
                            what a dreary place Alexandria was, anyhow, when he opened a Chicago
                            Saturday afternoon paper, which was something like a Sunday one because
                            it had no Sunday edition,and went gloomily through it. It was as he had
                            always found, full of a subtle wonder, the wonder of the city, which
                            drew him like a magnet. Here was the drawing of a big hotel someone was
                            going to build; there was a sketch of a great pianist who was coming to
                            play. An account of a new comedy drama; of a little romantic section of
                            Goose Island in the Chicago river, with its old decayed boats turned
                            into houses and geese waddling about; an item of a man falling through a
                            coal hole on South Halstead street fascinated him. This last was at
                            sixty-two hundred and something and the idea of such a long street
                            seized on his imagination. What a tremendous city Chicago must be. The
                            thought of car lines, crowds, trains, came to him with almost a yearning
                            appeal.
                        All at once the magnet got him. It gripped his very soul, this wonder,
                            this beauty, this life.
                        "I'm going to Chicago," he thought, and got
                            up.
                        There was his nice, quiet little home laid out before him. Inside were
                            his mother, his father, Myrtle. Still he was going. He could come back.
                            "Sure I can come back," he thought. Propelled by this
                            magnetic power he went in and upstairs to his room, and got a little
                            grip or portmanteau he had. He put in  it
                            the things he thought he would immediately need. In his pocket were nine
                            dollars, money he had been saving for some time. Finally he came
                            downstairs and stood in the door of the sitting room.
                        "What's the matter?" asked his mother, looking
                            at his solemn introspective face.
                        "I'm going to Chicago," he said.
                        "When?" she asked, astonished, a little uncertain of
                            just what he meant.
                        "Today," he said.
                        "No, you're joking." She smiled unbelievingly.
                            This was a boyish prank.
                        "I'm going today," he said.
                            "I'm going to catch that four o'clock
                            train."
                        Her face saddened. "You're not?" she said.
                        "I can come back," he replied, "if I want to.
                            I want to get something else to do."
                        His father came in at this time. He had a little work room out in the
                            barn where he sometimes cleaned machines and repaired vehicles. He was
                            fresh from such a task now.
                        "What's up?" he asked, seeing his wife close
                            to her boy.
                        "Eugene's going to Chicago."
                        "Since when?" he inquired amusedly.
                        "Today. He says he's going right now."
                        "You don't mean it," said Witla, astonished.
                            He really did not believe it. "Why don't you take a
                            little time and think it over? What are you going to live
                            on?"
                        "I'll live," said Eugene.
                            "I'm going. I've had enough of this place.
                            I'm going to get out."
                        "All right," said his father, who, after all, believed
                            in initiative. Evidently after all he hadn't quite understood
                            this boy. "Got your trunk packed?"
                        "No, but mother can send me that."
                        "Don't go today," pleaded his mother.
                            "Wait until you get something ready, Eugene. Wait and do a
                            little thinking about it. Wait until tomorrow."
                        "I want to go today, ma." He slipped his arm around
                            her. "Little ma." He was bigger than she by now, and
                            still growing.
                        "All right, Eugene," she said softly, "but I
                            wish you wouldn't." (Her boy was leaving herher heart
                            was hurt.)
                        "I can come back, ma. It's only a hundred
                            miles."
                        "Well, all right," she said finally, trying to
                            brighten. "I'll pack your bag."
                        "I have already."
                        
                        She went to look.
                        "Well, it'll soon be time," said Witla, who
                            was thinking that Eugene might back down. "I'm sorry.
                            Still it may be a good thing for you. You're always welcome
                            here, you know."
                        "I know," said Eugene.
                        They went finally to the train together, he and his father and Myrtle.
                            His mother couldn't. She stayed to cry.
                        On the way to the depot they stopped at Sylvia's.
                        "Why, Eugene," she exclaimed, "how ridiculous!
                            Don't go."
                        "He's set," said Witla.
                        Eugene finally got loose. He seemed to be fighting love, home ties,
                            everything, every step of the way. Finally he reached the depot. The
                            train came. Witla grabbed his hand affectionately.
                        "Be a good boy," he said, swallowing a gulp.
                        Myrtle kissed him. "You're so funny, Eugene. Write
                            me."
                        "I will."
                        He stepped on the train. The bell rang. Out the cars rolledout and on. He
                            looked out on the familiar scenes and then a real ache came to
                            himStella, his mother, his father, Myrtle, the little home. They were
                            all going out of his life.
                        "Hm," he half groaned, clearing his throat.
                            "Gee!"
                        And then he sank back and tried, as usual, not to think. He must succeed.
                            That's what the world was made for. That was what he was made
                            for. That was what he would have to do. . . .
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER IV
                        
                            THE city of Chicagowho shall portray it! This vast
                            ruck of life that had sprung suddenly into existence upon the dank
                            marshes of a lake shore. Miles and miles of dreary little houses; miles
                            and miles of wooden block-paved streets, with gas lamps placed and water
                            mains laid, and empty wooden walks set for pedestrians; the beat of a
                            hundred thousand hammers; the ring of a hundred thousand trowels! Long,
                            converging lines of telegraph poles; thousands upon thousands of
                            sentinel cottages, factory plants, towering smoke stacks, and here and
                            there a lone, shabby church steeple, sitting out pathetically upon
                            vacant land. The raw prairie stretch was covered with yellow grass; the
                            great broad highways of the tracks of railroads, ten, fifteen, twenty,
                            thirty, laid side by side and strung with thousands upon thousands of
                            shabby cars, like beads upon a string. Engines clanging, trains moving,
                            people waiting at street crossingspedestrians, wagon drivers, street car
                            drivers, drays of beer, trucks of coal, brick, stone, sanda spectacle of
                            new, raw, necessary life!
                        As Eugene began to draw near it he caught for the first time the sense
                            and significance of a great city. What were these newspaper shadows he
                            had been dealing with in his reading compared to this vivid, articulate,
                            eager thing? Here was the substance of a new world, substantial,
                            fascinating, different. The handsome suburban station at South Chicago,
                            the first of its kind he had ever seen, took his eye, as the train
                            rolled cityward. He had never before seen a crowd of foreignersworking
                            menand here were Lithuanians, Poles, Czechs, waiting for a local train.
                            He had never seen a really large factory plant, and here was one, and
                            another, and anothersteel works, potteries, soap-factories, foundries,
                            all gaunt and hard in the Sunday evening air. There seemed to be, for
                            all it was Sunday, something youthful, energetic and alive about the
                            streets. He noted the streetcars waiting; at one place a small river was
                            crossed on a draw,dirty, gloomy, but crowded with boats and lined with
                            great warehouses, grain elevators, coal pocketsthat architecture of
                            necessity and utility. His imagination was fired by this for here was
                            something that could be done brilliantly in blacka spot of red or green
                            for ship and bridge lights. There were some men on the magazines who did
                            things like this, only not so vivid.
                        
                        The train threaded its way through long lines of cars coming finally into
                            an immense train shed where are lights were splutteringa score under a
                            great curved steel and glass roof, where people were hurrying to and
                            fro. Engines were hissing; bells clanging raucously. He had no
                            relatives, no soul to turn to, but somehow he did not feel lonely. This
                            picture of life, this newness, fascinated him. He stepped down and
                            started leisurely to the gate, wondering which way he should go. He came
                            to a corner where a lamp post already lit blazoned the name Madison. He
                            looked out on this street and saw, as far as the eye could reach, two
                            lines of stores, jingling horse cars, people walking. What a sight, he
                            thought, and turned west. For three miles he walked, musing, and then as
                            it was dark, and he had arranged for no bed, he wondered where he should
                            eat and sleep. A fat man sitting outside a livery stable door in a
                            tilted, cane-seated chair offered a possibility of information.
                        "Do you know where I can get a room around here?" asked
                            Eugene.
                        The lounger looked him over. He was the proprietor of the place.
                        "There's an old lady living over there at
                            seven-thirty-two," he said, "who has a room, I think.
                            She might take you in." He liked Eugene's looks.
                        Eugene crossed over and rang a downstairs bell. The door was opened
                            shortly by a tall, kindly woman, of a rather matriarchal turn. Her hair
                            was gray.
                        "Yes?" she inquired.
                        "The gentleman at the livery stable over there said I might get
                            a room here. I'm looking for one."
                        She smiled pleasantly. This boy looked his strangeness, his wide-eyed
                            interest, his freshness from the country. "Come in,"
                            she said. "I have a room. You can look at it."
                        It was a front rooma little bed-room off the one main living room, clean,
                            simple, convenient. "This looks all right," he
                            said.
                        She smiled.
                        "You can have it for two dollars a week," she
                            proffered.
                        "That's all right," he said, putting down his
                            grip. "I'll take it."
                        "Have you had supper?" she asked.
                        "No, but I'm going out soon. I want to see the streets.
                            I'll find some place."
                        "I'll give you something," she said.
                        
                        Eugene thanked her, and she smiled. This was what Chicago did to the
                            country. It took the boys.
                        He opened the closed shutters of his window and knelt before it, leaning
                            on the sill. He looked out idly, for it was all so wonderful. Bright
                            lights were burning in store windows. These people hurryinghow their
                            feet soundedclap, clap, clap. And away east and away west it was all
                            like this. It was all like this everywhere, a great big, wonderful city.
                            It was nice to be here. He felt that now. It was all worth while. How
                            could he have stayed in Alexandria so long! He would get along here.
                            Certainly he would. He was perfectly sure of that. He knew.
                        Chicago at this time certainly offered a world of hope and opportunity to
                            the beginner. It was so new, so raw; everything was in the making. The
                            long lines of houses and stores were mostly temporary make-shiftsone and
                            two story frame affairswith here and there a three and four story brick
                            building which spoke of better days to come. Down in the business heart
                            which lay between the lake and the river, the North Side and the South
                            Side, was a region which spoke of a tremendous future, for here were
                            stores which served the buying public, not only of Chicago, but of the
                            Middle West. There were great banks, great office buildings, great
                            retail stores, great hotels. The section was running with a tide of
                            people which represented the youth, the illusions, the untrained
                            aspirations, of millions of souls. When you walked into this area you
                            could feel what Chicago meanteagerness, hope, desire. It was a city that
                            put vitality into almost every wavering heart: it made the beginner
                            dream dreams; the aged to feel that misfortune was never so grim that it
                            might not change.
                        Underneath, of course, was struggle. Youth and hope and energy were
                            setting a terrific pace. You had to work here, to move, to step lively.
                            You had to have ideas. This city demanded of you your very best, or it
                            would have little to do with you. Youth in its search for somethingand
                            agewere quickly to feel this. It was no fool's paradise.
                        Eugene, once he was settled, realized this. He had the notion, somehow,
                            that the printer's trade was all over for him. He wanted no
                            more of that. He wanted to be an artist or something like that, although
                            he hardly knew how to begin. The papers offered one way, but he was not
                            sure that they took on beginners. He had had no training whatever. His
                            sister Myrtle had once said that some of his little thumb-nail sketches
                            were pretty, but what did she know? If he could study
                            somewhere, find  someone who would teach
                            him. . . . Meanwhile he would have to work.
                        He tried the newspapers first of course, for those great institutions
                            seemed the ideal resort for anyone who wanted to get up in the world,
                            but the teeming offices with frowning art directors and critical
                            newspaper workers frightened him. One art director did see something in
                            the three or four little sketches he showed, but he happened to be in a
                            crusty mood, and did not want anybody anyway. He simply said no, there
                            was nothing. Eugene thought that perhaps as an artist also, he was
                            destined to be a failure.
                        The trouble with this boy was really that he was not half awake yet. The
                            beauty of life, its wonder, had cast a spell over him, but he could not
                            yet interpret it in line and color. He walked about these wonderful
                            streets, gazing in the windows, looking at the boats on the river,
                            looking at the ships on the lake. One day, while he was standing on the
                            lake shore, there came a ship in full sail in the offingthe first he had
                            ever seen. It gripped his sense of beauty. He clasped his hands
                            nervously and thrilled to it. Then he sat down on the lake wall and
                            looked and looked and looked until it gradually sank below the horizon.
                            So this was how the great lakes were; and how the great seas must bethe
                            Atlantic and the Pacific and the Indian Ocean. Ah, the sea! Some day,
                            perhaps he would go to New York. That was where the sea was. But here it
                            was also, in miniature, and it was wonderful.
                        One cannot moon by lake shores and before store windows and at bridge
                            draws and live, unless one is provided with the means of living, and
                            this Eugene was not. He had determined when he left home that he would
                            be independent. He wanted to get a salary in some way that he could at
                            least live on. He wanted to write back and be able to say that he was
                            getting along nicely. His trunk came, and a loving letter from his
                            mother, and some money, but he sent that back. It was only ten dollars,
                            but he objected to beginning that way. He thought he ought to earn his
                            own way, and he wanted to try, anyhow.
                        After ten days his funds were very low, a dollar and seventy-five cents,
                            and he decided that any job would have to do. Never mind about art or
                            type-setting now. He could not get the last without a union card, he
                            must take anything, and so he applied from store to store. The cheap
                            little shops in which he asked were so ugly they hurt, but he tried to
                            put his artistic sensibilities aside. He asked for anything, to be made
                            a clerk in a bakery, in a dry goods store, in a candy store. After a
                            time a hardware  store loomed up, and he
                            asked there. The man looked at him curiously. "I might give you
                            a place at storing stoves."
                        Eugene did not understand, but he accepted gladly. It only paid six
                            dollars a week, but he could live on that. He was shown to a loft in
                            charge of two rough men, stove fitters, polishers, and repairers, who
                            gruffly explained to him that his work was to brush the rust off the
                            decayed stoves, to help piece and screw them together, to polish and
                            lift things, for this was a second hand stove business which bought and
                            repaired stoves from junk dealers all over the city. Eugene had a low
                            bench near a window where he was supposed to do his polishing, but he
                            very frequently wasted his time here looking out into the green yards of
                            some houses in a side street. The city was full of wonder to himits
                            every detail fascinating. When a ragpicker would go by calling
                            "rags, old iron," or a vegetable vender crying
                            "tomatoes, potatoes, green corn, peas," he would stop
                            and listen, the musical pathos of the cries appealing to him. Alexandria
                            had never had anything like this. It was all so strange. He saw himself
                            making pen and ink sketches of things, of the clothes lines in the back
                            yards and of the maids with baskets.
                        On one of the days when he thought he was working fairly well (he had
                            been there two weeks), one of the two repairers said, "Hey, get
                            a move on you. You're not paid to look out the
                            window." Eugene stopped. He had not realized that he was
                            loafing.
                        "What have you got to do with it?" he asked, hurt and
                            half defiant. He was under the impression that he was working with these
                            men, not under them.
                        "I'll show you, you fresh kid," said the older
                            of the two, who was an individual built on the order of "Bill
                            Sykes." "You're under me. You get a move on
                            you, and don't give me any more of your lip."
                        Eugene was startled. It was a flash of brutality out of a clear sky. The
                            animal, whom he had been scanning as an artist would, as a type, out of
                            the corner of his eye, was revealing himself.
                        "You go to the devil," said Eugene, only half awake to
                            the grim reality of the situation.
                        "What's that!" exclaimed the man, making for
                            him. He gave him a shove toward the wall, and attempted to kick him with
                            his big, hob-nailed boot. Eugene picked up a stove leg. His face was wax
                            white.
                        "Don't you try that again," he said darkly. He
                            fixed the leg in his hand firmly.
                        "Call it off, Jim," said the other man, who saw the
                            uselessness  of so much temper.
                            "Don't hit him. Send him down stairs if you
                            don't like him."
                        "You get to hell out of here, then," said
                            Eugene's noble superior.
                        Eugene walked to a nail where his hat and coat were, carrying the stove
                            leg. He edged past his assailant cautiously, fearing a second attack.
                            The man was inclined to kick at him again because of his stubbornness,
                            but forebore.
                        You're too fresh, Willie. You want to wake up, you dough
                            face," he said as Eugene went.
                        Eugene slipped out quietly. His spirit was hurt and torn. What a scene!
                            He, Eugene Witla, kicked at, and almost kicked out, and that in a job
                            that paid six dollars a week. A great lump came up in his throat, but it
                            went down again. He wanted to cry but he could not. He went downstairs,
                            stovepolish on his hands and face and slipped up to the desk.
                        "I want to quit," he said to the man who had hired
                            him.
                        "All right, what's the matter?"
                        "That big brute up there tried to kick me," he
                            explained.
                        "They're pretty rough men," answered the
                            employer. "I was afraid you wouldn't get along. I
                            guess you're not strong enough. Here you are." He laid
                            out three dollars and a half. Eugene wondered at this queer
                            interpretation of his complaint. He must get along with these men? They
                            musn't get along with him? So the city had that sort of
                            brutality in it.
                        He went home and washed up, and then struck out again, for it was no time
                            now to be without a job. After a week he found one,as a house runner for
                            a real estate concern, a young man to bring in the numbers of empty
                            houses and post up the "For Rent" signs in the
                            windows. It paid eight dollars and seemed to offer opportunities of
                            advancement. Eugene might have stayed there indefinitely had it not
                            failed after three months. He had reached the season of fall clothes
                            then, and the need of a winter overcoat, but he made no complaint to his
                            family. He wanted to appear to be getting along well, whether he was or
                            not.
                        One of the things which tended to harden and sharpen his impressions of
                            life at this time was the show of luxury seen in some directions. On
                            Michigan Avenue and Prairie Avenue, on Ashland Avenue and Washington
                            Boulevard, were sections which were crowded with splendid houses such as
                            Eugene had never seen before. He was astonished at the magnificence of
                            their appointments, the beauty of the lawns, the show of the windows,
                            the distinction of the equipages which accompanied them and served them.
                            For the first time in his life he saw liveried footmen  at doors: he saw at a distance girls and
                            women grown who seemed marvels of beauty to himthey were so
                            distinguished in their dress; he saw young men carrying themselves with
                            an air of distinction which he had never seen before. These must be the
                            society people the newspapers were always talking about. His mind made
                            no distinctions as yet. If there were fine clothes, fine trappings, of
                            course social prestige went with them. It made him see for the first
                            time what far reaches lay between the conditions of a beginner from the
                            country and what the world really had to offeror rather what it showered
                            on some at the top. It subdued and saddened him a little. Life was
                            unfair.
                        These fall days, too, with their brown leaves, sharp winds, scudding
                            smoke and whirls of dust showed him that the city could be cruel. He met
                            shabby men, sunken eyed, gloomy, haggard, who looked at him, apparently
                            out of a deep despair. These creatures all seemed to be brought where
                            they were by difficult circumstances. If they begged at all,and they
                            rarely did of him, for he did not look prosperous enough,it was with the
                            statement that unfortunate circumstances had brought them where they
                            were. You could fail so easily. You could really starve if you
                            didn't look sharp,the city quickly taught him that.
                        During these days he got immensely lonely. He was not very sociable, and
                            too introspective. He had no means of making friends, or thought he had
                            none. So he wandered about the streets at night, marveling at the sights
                            he saw, or staying at home in his little room. Mrs. Woodruff, the
                            landlady, was nice and motherly enough, but she was not young and did
                            not fit into his fancies. He was thinking about girls and how sad it was
                            not to have one to say a word to him. Stella was gonethat dream was
                            over. When would he find another like her?
                        After wandering around for nearly a month, during which time he was
                            compelled to use some money his mother sent him to buy a suit of clothes
                            on an instalment plan, he got a place as driver of a laundry, which,
                            because it paid ten dollars a week, seemed very good. He sketched now
                            and then when he was not tired, but what he did seemed pointless. So he
                            worked here, driving a wagon, when he should have been applying for an
                            art opening, or taking art lessons.
                        During this winter Myrtle wrote him that Stella Appleton had moved to
                            Kansas, whither her father had gone; and that his mother's
                            health was bad, and that she did so want him to come home and stay
                            awhile. It was about this time that he became acquainted with a little
                            Scotch girl named Margaret Duff, who worked in the laundry, and became
                            quickly involved in a relationship  which
                            established a precedent in his experiences with women. Before this he
                            had never physically known a girl. Now, and of a sudden, he was plunged
                            into something which awakened a new, and if not evil, at least
                            disrupting and disorganizing propensity of his character. He loved
                            women, the beauty of the curves of their bodies. He loved beauty of
                            feature and after a while was to love beauty of mind,he did now, in a
                            vague, unformed way,but his ideal was as yet not clear to him. Margaret
                            Duff represented some simplicity of attitude, some generosity of spirit,
                            some shapeliness of form, some comeliness of feature,it was not more.
                            But, growing by what it fed on, his sex appetite became powerful. In a
                            few weeks it had almost mastered him. He burned to be with this girl
                            dailyand she was perfectly willing that he should, so long as the
                            relationship did not become too conspicuous. She was a little afraid of
                            her parents, although those two, being working people, retired early and
                            slept soundly. They did not seem to mind her early philan-derings with
                            boys. This latest one was no novelty. It burned fiercely for three
                            monthsEugene was eager, insatiable: the girl not so much so, but
                            complaisant. She liked this evidence of fire in him,the hard, burning
                            flame she had aroused, and yet after a time she got a little tired. Then
                            little personal differences arose,differences of taste, differences of
                            judgment, differences of interest. He really could not talk to her of
                            anything serious, could not get a response to his more delicate
                            emotions. For her part she could not find in him any ready appreciation
                            of the little things she likedtheater jests, and the bright remarks of
                            other boys and girls. She had some conception of what was tasteful in
                            dress, but as for anything else, art, literature, public affairs, she
                            knew nothing at all, while Eugene, for all his youth, was intensely
                            alive to what was going on in the great world. The sound of great names
                            and great fames was in his ears,Carlyle, Emerson, Thoreau, Whitman. He
                            read of great philosophers, painters, musicians, meteors that sped
                            across the intellectual sky of the western world, and he wondered. He
                            felt as though some day he would be called to do somethingin his
                            youthful enthusiasm he half-thought it might be soon. He knew that this
                            girl he was trifling with could not hold him. She had lured him, but
                            once lured he was master, judge, critic. He was beginning to feel that
                            he could get along without her,that he could find someone better.
                        Naturally such an attitude would make for the death of passion, as the
                            satiation of passion would make for the development of such an attitude.
                            Margaret became indifferent. She resented 
                            his superior airs, his top-lofty tone at times. They quarreled over
                            little things. One night he suggested something that she ought to do in
                            the haughty manner customary with him.
                        "Oh, don't be so smart!" she said.
                            "You always talk as though you owned me."
                        "I do," he said jestingly.
                        "Do you?" she flared. "There are
                            others."
                        "Well, whenever you're ready you can have them.
                            I'm willing."
                        The tone cut her, though actually it was only an ill-timed bit of
                            teasing, more kindly meant than it sounded.
                        "Well, I'm ready now. You needn't come to see
                            me unless you want to. I can get along."
                        She tossed her head.
                        "Don't be foolish, Margy," he said, seeing the
                            ill wind he had aroused. "You don't mean
                            that."
                        "Don't I? Well, we'll see." She
                            walked away from him to another corner of the room. He followed her, but
                            her anger re-aroused his opposition. "Oh, all right,"
                            he said after a time. "I guess I'd better be
                            going."
                        She made no response, neither pleas nor suggestions. He went and secured
                            his hat and coat and came back. "Want to kiss me
                            good-bye?" he inquired.
                        "No," she said simply.
                        "Good-night," he called.
                        "Good-night," she replied indifferently.
                        The relationship was never amicably readjusted after this, although it
                            did endure for some time.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER V
                        
                            FOR the time being this encounter stirred to an almost
                            unbridled degree Eugene's interest in women. Most men are
                            secretly proud of their triumph with womantheir ability to triumphand
                            any evidence of their ability to attract, entertain, hold, is one of
                            those things which tends to give them an air of superiority and
                            self-sufficiency which is sometimes lacking in those who are not so
                            victorious. This was, in its way, his first victory of the sort, and it
                            pleased him mightly. He felt much more sure of himself instead of in any
                            way ashamed. What, he thought, did the silly boys back in Alexandria
                            know of life compared to this? Nothing. He was in Chicago now. The world
                            was different. He was finding himself to be a man, free, individual, of
                            interest to other personalities. Margaret Duff had told him many pretty
                            things about himself. She had complimented his looks, his total
                            appearance, his taste in the selection of particular things. He had felt
                            what it is to own a woman. He strutted about for a time, the fact that
                            he had been dismissed rather arbitrarily having little weight with him
                            because he was so very ready to be dismissed, sudden dissatisfaction
                            with his job now stirred up in him, for ten dollars a week was no sum
                            wherewith any self-respecting youth could maintain himself,particularly
                            with a view to sustaining any such relationship as that which had just
                            ended. He felt that he ought to get a better place.
                        Then one day a woman to whom he was delivering a parcel at her home in
                            Warren Avenue, stopped him long enough to ask:
                        "What do you drivers get a week for your work?"
                        "I get ten dollars," said Eugene. "I think
                            some get more."
                        "You ought to make a good collector," she went on. She
                            was a large, homely, incisive, straight-talking woman. "Would
                            you like to change to that kind of work?"
                        Eugene was sick of the laundry business. The hours were killing. He had
                            worked as late as one o'clock Sunday morning.
                        "I think I would," he exclaimed. "I
                            don't know anything about it, but this work is no
                            fun."
                        "My husband is the manager of The People's Furniture
                            Company," she went on. "He needs a good collector now
                            and then. I think he's going to make a change very soon.
                            I'll speak to him."
                        
                        Eugene smiled joyously and thanked her. This was surely a windfall. He
                            was anxious to know what collectors were paid but he thought it scarcely
                            tactful to ask.
                        "If he gives you a job you will probably get fourteen dollars to
                            begin with," she volunteered.
                        Eugene thrilled. That would be really a rise in the world. Four dollars
                            more! He could get some nice clothes out of that and have spending money
                            besides. He might get a chance to study art. His visions began to
                            multiply. One could get up in the world by trying. The energetic
                            delivery he had done for this laundry had brought him this. Further
                            effort in the other field might bring him more. And he was young
                            yet.
                        He had been working for the laundry company for six months. Six weeks
                            later, Mr. Henry Mitchly, manager of the People's Furniture,
                            wrote him care of the laundry company to call at his home any evening
                            after eight and he would see him. "My wife has spoken to me of
                            you," he added.
                        Eugene complied the same day that he received the note, and was looked
                            over by a lean, brisk, unctuous looking man of forty, who asked him
                            various questions as to his work, his home, how much money he took in as
                            a driver, and what not. Finally he said, "I need a bright young
                            man down at my place. It's a good job for one who is steady and
                            honest and hardworking. My wife seems to think you work pretty well, so
                            I'm willing to give you a trial. I can put you to work at
                            fourteen dollars I want you to come to see me a week from
                            Monday."
                        Eugene thanked him. He decided, on Mr. Mitchly's advice, to give
                            his laundry manager a full week's notice. He told Margaret that
                            he was leaving and she was apparently glad for his sake. The management
                            was slightly sorry, for Eugene was a good driver. During his last week
                            he helped break in a new man in his place, and on Monday appeared before
                            Mr. Mitchly.
                        Mr. Mitchly was glad to have him, for he had seen him as a young man of
                            energy and force. He explained the simple nature of the work, which was
                            to take bills for clocks, silverware, rugs, anything which the company
                            sold, and go over the various routes collecting the money due,which
                            would average from seventy five to a hundred and twenty-five dollars a
                            day. "Most companies in our line require a bond," he
                            explained, "but we haven't come to that yet. I think I
                            know honest young men when I see them. Anyhow we have a system of
                            inspection. If a man's inclined to be dishonest he
                            can't get very far with us."
                        Eugene had never thought of this question of honesty very much. He had
                            been raised where he did not need to worry about  the matter of a little pocket change, and he had made
                            enough at the Appeal to supply his immediate wants.
                            Besides, among the people he had always associated with it was
                            considered a very right and necessary thing to be honest. Men were
                            arrested for not being. He remembered one very sad case of a boy he knew
                            being arrested at Alexandria for breaking into a store at night. That
                            seemed a terrible thing to him at the time. Since then he had been
                            speculating a great deal, in a vague way as to what honesty was, but he
                            had not yet decided. He knew that it was expected of him to account for
                            the last penny of anything that was placed in his keeping and he was
                            perfectly willing to do so. The money he earned seemed enough if he had
                            to live on it. There was no need for him to aid in supporting anyone
                            else. So he slipped along rather easily and practically untested.
                        Eugene took the first day's package of bills as laid out for
                            him, and carefully went from door to door. In some places money was paid
                            him for which he gave a receipt, in others he was put off or refused
                            because of previous difficulties with the company. In a number of places
                            people had moved, leaving no trace of themselves, and packing the unpaid
                            for goods with them. It was his business, as Mr. Mitchly explained, to
                            try to get track of them from the neighbors.
                        Eugene saw at once that he was going to like the work. The fresh air, the
                            out-door life, the walking, the quickness with which his task was
                            accomplished, all pleased him. His routes took him into strange and new
                            parts of the city, where he had never been before, and introduced him to
                            types he had never met. His laundry work, taking him from door to door,
                            had been a freshening influence, and this was another. He saw scenes
                            that he felt sure he could, when he had learned to draw a little better,
                            make great things of,dark, towering factory-sites, great stretches of
                            railroad yards laid out like a puzzle in rain, snow, or bright sunlight;
                            great smoke-stacks throwing their black heights athwart morning or
                            evening skies. He liked them best in the late afternoon when they stood
                            out in a glow of red or fading purple. "Wonderful," he
                            used to exclaim to himself, and think how the world would marvel if he
                            could ever come to do great pictures like those of Dor. He admired the
                            man's tremendous imagination. He never thought of himself as
                            doing anything in oils or water colors or chalkonly pen and ink, and
                            that in great, rude splotches of black and white. That was the way. That
                            was the way force was had.
                        But he could not do them. He could only think them.
                        One of his chief joys was the Chicago river, its black, muckly  water churned by puffing tugs and its
                            banks lined by great red grain elevators and black coal chutes and
                            yellow lumber yards. Here was real color and lifethe thing to draw; and
                            then there were the low, drab, rain-soaked cottages standing in lonely,
                            shabby little rows out on flat prairie land, perhaps a scrubby tree
                            somewhere near. He loved these. He would take an envelope and try to get
                            the sense of themthe feel, as he called itbut it wouldn't come.
                            All he did seemed cheap and commonplace, mere pointless lines and stiff
                            wooden masses. How did the great artists get their smoothness and ease?
                            He wondered.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER VI
                        
                            EUGENE collected and reported faithfully every day,
                            and had managed to save a little money. Margaret was now a part of his
                            past. His landlady, Mrs. Woodruff, had gone to live with a daughter in
                            Sedalia, Missouri, and he had moved to a comparatively nice house in
                            East Twenty-first Street on the South Side. It had taken his eye because
                            of a tree in a fifty foot space of ground before it. Like his other room
                            it cost him little, and he was in a private family. He arranged a twenty
                            cent rate per meal for such meals as he took there, and thus he managed
                            to keep his bare living expenses down to five dollars a week. The
                            remaining nine he spent sparingly for clothes, carfare, and
                            amusementsalmost nothing of the latter. When he saw he had a little
                            money in reserve he began to think of looking up the Art Institute,
                            which had been looming up in his mind as an avenue of advancement, and
                            find out on what condition he could join a night class in drawing. They
                            were very reasonable, he heard, only fifteen dollars a quarter, and he
                            decided to begin if the conditions were not too severe. He was beginning
                            to be convinced that he was born to be an artisthow soon he could not
                            tell.
                        The old Art Institute, which preceded the present impressive structure,
                            was located at Michigan Avenue and Monroe Street, and presented an
                            atmosphere of distinction which was not present in most of the
                            structures representing the public taste of the period. It was a large
                            six storey building of brown stone, and contained a number of studios
                            for painters, sculptors, and music teachers, besides the exhibition
                            rooms and the rooms for the classes. There were both day and evening
                            classes, and even at that time a large number of students. The western
                            soul, to a certain extent, was fired by the wonder of art. There was so
                            little of it in the life of the peoplethe fame of those who could
                            accomplish things in this field and live in a more refined atmosphere
                            was great. To go to Paris! To be a student in any one of the great
                            ateliers of that city! Or of Munich or Rome, to know the character of
                            the artistic treasures of Europethe life of the Art quarterthat was
                            something. There was what might have been termed a wild desire in the
                            breast of many an untutored boy and girl to get out of the ranks of the
                            commonplace; to assume the character and the  habiliments of the artistic temperament as they were then supposed to
                            be; to have a refined, semi-languorous, semi-indifferent manner; to live
                            in a studio, to have a certain freedom in morals and temperament not
                            accorded to the ordinary personthese were the great things to do and be.
                            Of course, art composition was a part of this. You were supposed
                            ultimately to paint great pictures or do noble sculptures, but in the
                            meanwhile you could and should live the life of the artist. And that was
                            beautiful and wonderful and free.
                        Eugene had long had some sense of this. He was aware that there were
                            studios in Chicago; that certain men were supposed to be doing good
                            workhe saw it in the papers. There were mentions now and then of
                            exhibitions, mostly free, which the public attended but sparingly. Once
                            there was an exhibition of some of the war pictures of Verestchagin, a
                            great Russian painter who had come West for some purpose. Eugene saw
                            them one Sunday afternoon, and was enthralled by the magnificence of
                            their grasp of the elements of battle; the wonder of color; the truth of
                            character; the dramatic quality; the sense of force and danger and
                            horror and suffering which was somehow around and in and through
                            everything that was shown. This man had virility and insight; stupendous
                            imagination and temperament. Eugene stood and stared, wondering how such
                            things could be done. Ever afterward the name of Verestchagin was like a
                            great call to his imagination; that was the kind of an artist to be if
                            you were going to be one.
                        Another picture came there once, which appealed to another side of his
                            nature, although primarily the basis of its appeal was artistic. It was
                            a great, warm tinted nude by Bouguereau, a French artist who was
                            startling his day with his daring portrayal of the nude. The types he
                            depicted were not nambypamby little slim-bodied women with spindling
                            qualities of strength and passion, but great, full-blown women whose
                            voluptuous contour of neck and arms and torso and hip and thigh was
                            enough to set the blood of youth at fever heat. The man obviously
                            understood and had passion, love of form, love of desire, love of
                            beauty. He painted with a sense of the bridal bed in the background; of
                            motherhood and of fat, growing babies, joyously nursed. These women
                            stood up big in their sense of beauty and magnetism, the soft lure of
                            desire in their eyes, their full lips parted, their cheeks flushed with
                            the blood of health. As such they were anathema to the conservative and
                            puritanical in mind, the religious in temperament, the  cautious in training or taste. The very
                            bringing of this picture to Chicago as a product for sale was enough to
                            create a furor of objection. Such pictures should not
                            be painted, was the cry of the press; or if painted, not exhibited.
                            Bouguereau was conceived of by many as one of those dastards of art who
                            were endeavoring to corrupt by their talent the morals of the world;
                            there was a cry raised that the thing should be suppressed; and as is
                            always the case in all such outbursts of special class opposition, the
                            interest of the general public was aroused.
                        Eugene was one of those who noted the discussion. He had never seen a
                            picture by Bouguereau or, indeed, an original nude by any other artist.
                            Being usually at liberty after three o'clock, he was free to
                            visit some of these things, and having found it possible to do his work
                            in good clothes he had come to wear his best suit every day. He was a
                            fairly presentable youth with a solemn mien, and his request to be shown
                            anything in any art store would have aroused no surprise. He looked as
                            though he belonged to the intellectual and artistic classes.
                        Not being sure of what reception would be accorded one so younghe was now
                            nearing twentyhe nevertheless ventured to stop at the gallery where the
                            Bouguereau was being exhibited and ask to see it. The attendant in
                            charge eyed him curiously, but led him back to a room hung in dark red,
                            and turning on a burst of incandescent bulbs set in the ceiling of a red
                            plush hung cabinet, pulled back the curtain revealing the picture.
                            Eugene had never seen such a figure and face. It was a dream of
                            beautyhis ideal come to life. He studied the face and neck, the soft
                            mass of brown, sensuous hair massed at the back of the head, the
                            flowerlike lips and soft cheeks. He marveled at the suggestion of the
                            breasts and the abdomen, that potentiality of motherhood that is so
                            firing to the male. He could have stood there hours dreaming,
                            luxuriating, but the attendant who had left him alone with it for a few
                            minutes returned.
                        "What is the price of this?" Eugene asked.
                        "Ten thousand dollars," was the reply.
                        He smiled solemnly. "It's a wonderful thing,"
                            he said, and turned to go. The attendant put out the light.
                        This picture, like those of Verestchagin, made a sharp impression on him.
                            Curiously he had no longing to paint anything of this kind. He only
                            rejoiced to look at it. It spoke to him of his present ideal of
                            womanhoodphysical beauty, and he longed with all his heart to find a
                            creature like that who would look on him with favor.
                        There were other exhibitionsone containing a genuine Rembrandtwhich  impressed him, but none like these that
                            had definitely stirred him. His interest in art was becoming eager. He
                            wanted to find out all about itto do something himself. One day he
                            ventured to call at the Art Institute building and consult the
                            secretary, who explained to him what the charges were. He learned from
                            her, for she was a woman of a practical, clerical turn, that the classes
                            ran from October to May, that he could enter a life or antique class or
                            both, though the antique alone was advisable for the time, and a class
                            in illustration, where costumes of different periods were presented on
                            different models. He found that each class had an instructor of supposed
                            note, whom it was not necessary for him to see. Each class had a monitor
                            and each student was supposed to work faithfully for his own benefit.
                            Eugene did not get to see the class rooms, but he gained a sense of the
                            art of it all, nevertheless, for the halls and offices were decorated in
                            an artistic way, and there were many plaster casts of arms, legs, busts,
                            and thighs and heads. It was as though one stood in an open doorway and
                            looked out upon a new world. The one thing that gratified him was that
                            he could study pen and ink or brush in the illustration class, and that
                            he could also join a sketch class from five to six every afternoon
                            without extra charges if he preferred to devote his evening hours to
                            studying drawing in the life class. He was a little astonished to learn
                            from a printed prospectus given him that the life class meant nude
                            models to work fromboth men and women. He was surely approaching a
                            different world now. It seemed necessary and natural enough, and yet
                            there was an aloof atmosphere about it, something that suggested the
                            inner precincts of a shrine, to which only talent was admitted. Was he
                            talented? Wait! He would show the world, even if he was a raw country
                            boy.
                        The classes which he decided to enter were first a life class which
                            convened Monday, Wednesday and Friday evenings at seven in one of the
                            study rooms and remained in session until ten o'clock, and
                            second a sketch class which met from five to six every afternoon. Eugene
                            felt that he knew little or nothing about figure and anatomy and had
                            better work at that. Costume and illustration would have to wait, and as
                            for the landscapes, or rather city-scapes, of which he was so fond, he
                            could afford to defer those until he learned something of the
                            fundamentals of art.
                        Heretofore he had rarely attempted the drawing of a face or figure except
                            in miniature and as details of a larger scene. Now he was confronted
                            with the necessity of sketching in charcoal  the head or body of a living person, and it frightened him a little.
                            He knew that he would be in a class with fifteen or twenty other male
                            students. They would be able to see and comment on what he was doing.
                            Twice a week an instructor would come around and pass upon his work.
                            There were honors for those who did the best work during any one month,
                            he learned from the prospectus, namely: first choice of seats around the
                            model at the beginning of each new pose. The class instructors must be
                            of considerable significance in the American art world, he thought, for
                            they were N. A.'s, and that meant National Academicians. He
                            little knew with what contempt this honor was received in some quarters,
                            or he would not have attached so much significance to it.
                        One Monday evening in October, armed with the several sheets of paper
                            which he had been told to purchase by his all-informing prospectus, he
                            began his work. He was a little nervous at sight of the brightly lighted
                            halls and class rooms, and the moving crowd of young men and women did
                            not tend to allay his fears. He was struck at once with the quality of
                            gaiety, determination and easy grace which marked the different members
                            of this company. The boys struck him as interesting, virile, in many
                            cases good looking; the girls as graceful, rather dashing and confident.
                            One or two whom he noted were beautiful in a dark way. This was a
                            wonderful world.
                        The rooms too, were exceptional. They were old enough in use to be almost
                            completely covered, as to the walls, with the accumulation of paint
                            scraped from the palettes. There were no easels or other paraphernalia,
                            but simply chairs and little stoolsthe former, as Eugene learned, to be
                            turned upside down for easels, the latter for the students to sit on. In
                            the center of the room was a platform, the height of an ordinary table,
                            for the model to pose on, and in one corner a screen which constituted a
                            dressing room. There were no pictures or statuaryjust the bare wallsbut
                            curiously, in one corner, a piano. Out in the halls and in the general
                            lounging center were pictures of nude figures or parts of figures posed
                            in all sorts of ways which Eugene, in his raw, youthful way, thought
                            suggestive. He secretly rejoiced to look at them but he felt that he
                            must not say anything about what he thought. An art student, he felt
                            sure, must appear to be indifferent to such suggestionto be above such
                            desire. They were here to work, not to dream of women.
                        When the time came for the classes to assemble there was a scurrying to
                            and fro, conferring between different students, and  then the men found themselves in one set of rooms and the
                            women in another. Eugene saw a young girl in his room, sitting up near
                            the screen, idly gazing about. She was pretty, of a slightly Irish cast
                            of countenance, with black hair and black eyes. She wore a cap that was
                            an imitation of the Polish national head-dress, and a red cape. Eugene
                            assumed her to be the class model and secretly wondered if he was really
                            to see her in the nude. In a few minutes all the students were gathered,
                            and then there was a stir as there strolled in a rather vigorous and
                            picturesque man of thirty-six or thereabouts, who sauntered to the front
                            of the room and called the class to order. He was clad in a shabby suit
                            of grey tweed and crowned with a little brown hat, shoved rakishly over
                            one ear, which he did not trouble to take off. He wore a soft blue
                            hickory shirt without collar or tie, and looked immensely
                            self-sufficient. He was tall and lean and raw-boned, with a face which
                            was long and narrow; his eyes were large and wide set, his mouth big and
                            firm in its lines; he had big hands and feet, and an almost rolling
                            gait. Eugene assumed instinctively that this was Mr. Temple Boyle, N.
                            A., the class instructor, and he imagined there would be an opening
                            address of some kind. But the instructor merely announced that Mr.
                            William Ray had been appointed monitor and that he hoped that there
                            would be no disorder or wasting of time. There would be regular
                            criticism days by himWednesdays and Fridays. He hoped that each pupil
                            would be able to show marked improvement. The class would now begin
                            work. Then he strolled out.
                        Eugene soon learned from one of the students that this really was Mr.
                            Boyle. The young Irish girl had gone behind the screen. Eugene could see
                            partially, from where he was sitting, that she was disrobing. It shocked
                            him a little, but he kept his courage and his countenance because of the
                            presence of so many others. He turned a chair unside down as he saw the
                            others do, and sat down on a stool. His charcoal was lying in a little
                            box beside him. He straightened his paper on its board and fidgeted,
                            keeping as still as he could. Some of the students were talking.
                            Suddenly he saw the girl divest herself of a thin, gauze shirt, and the
                            next moment she came out, naked and composed, to step upon the platform
                            and stand perfectly erect, her arms by her side, her head thrown back.
                            Eugene tingled and blushed and was almost afraid to look directly at
                            her. Then he took a stick of charcoal and began sketching feebly,
                            attempting to convey something of this personality and this pose to
                            paper. It seemed a wonderful thing for him to be  doingto be in this room, to see this girl posing so; in
                            short, to be an art student. So this was what it was, a world absolutely
                            different from anything he had ever known. And he was self-called to be
                            a member of it.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER VI
                        
                            IT was after he had decided to enter the art class
                            that Eugene paid his first visit to his family. Though they were only a
                            hundred miles away, he had never felt like going back, even at
                            Christmas. Now it seemed to him he had something definite to proclaim.
                            He was going to be an artist; and as to his work, he was getting along
                            well in that. Mr. Mitchly appeared to like him. It was to Mr. Mitchly
                            that he reported daily with his collections and his unsatisfied bills.
                            The collections were checked up by Mr. Mitchly with the cash, and the
                            unpaid bills certified. Sometimes Eugene made a mistake, having too much
                            or too little, but the "too much" was always credited
                            against the "too little," so that in the main he came
                            out even. In money matters there was no tendency on Eugene's
                            part to be dishonest. He thought of lots of things he wanted, but he was
                            fairly well content to wait and come by them legitimately. It was this
                            note in him that appealed to Mitchly. He thought that possibly something
                            could be made of Eugene in a trade way.
                        He left the Friday night preceding Labor Day, the first Monday in
                            September, which was a holiday throughout the city. He had told Mr.
                            Mitchly that he thought of leaving Saturday after work for over Sunday
                            and Monday, but Mr. Mitchly suggested that he might double up his
                            Saturday's work with Thursday's and Friday's
                            if he wished, and go Friday evening.
                        "Saturday's a short day, anyhow," he said.
                            "That would give three days at home and still you
                            wouldn't be behind in your work."
                        Eugene thanked his employer and did as suggested. He packed his bag with
                            the best he had in the way of clothes, and journeyed homeward, wondering
                            how he would find things. How different it all was! Stella was gone. His
                            youthful unsophistication had passed. He could go home as a city man
                            with some prospects. He had no idea of how boyish he lookedhow much the
                            idealist he washow far removed from hard, practical judgment which the
                            world values so highly.
                        When the train reached Alexandria, his father and Myrtle and Sylvia were
                            at the depot to greet himthe latter with her two year old son. They had
                            all come down in the family carryall, which left one seat for Eugene. He
                            greeted them  warmly and received their
                            encomiums on his looks with a befitting sense of humility.
                        "You're bigger," his father exclaimed.
                            "You're going to be a tall man after all, Eugene. I
                            was afraid you had stopped growing."
                        "I hadn't noticed that I had grown any," said
                            Eugene.
                        "Ah, yes," put in Myrtle. "You're
                            much bigger, Gene. It makes you look a little thinner. Are you good and
                            strong?"
                        "I ought to be," laughed Eugene. "I walk about
                            fifteen or twenty miles a day, and I'm out in the air all the
                            time. If I don't get strong now I never will."
                        Sylvia asked him about his "stomach trouble." About the
                            same, he told her. Sometimes he thought it was better, sometimes worse.
                            A doctor had told him to drink hot water in the morning but he
                            didn't like to do it. It was so hard to swallow the stuff.
                        While they were talking, asking questions, they reached the front gate of
                            the house, and Mrs. Witla came out on the front porch. Eugene, at sight
                            of her in the late dusk, jumped over the front wheel and ran to meet
                            her.
                        "Little ma," he exclaimed. "Didn't
                            expect me back so soon, did you?"
                        "So soon," she said, her arms around his neck. Then she
                            held him so, quite still for a few moments. "You're
                            getting to be a big man," she said when she released him.
                        He went into the old sitting room and looked around. It was all quite the
                            sameno change. There were the same books, the same table, the same
                            chairs, the same pulley lamp hanging from the center of the ceiling. In
                            the parlor there was nothing new, nor in the bed rooms or the kitchen.
                            His mother looked a little olderhis father not. Sylvia had changed
                            greatlybeing slightly "peaked" in the face compared to
                            her former plumpness; it was due to motherhood, he thought. Myrtle
                            seemed a little more calm and happy. She had a real
                            "steady" now, Frank Bangs, the superintendent of the
                            local furniture factory. He was quite young, good-looking, going to be
                            well-off some day, so they thought. "Old Bill," one of
                            the big horses, had been sold. Rover, one of the two collies, was dead.
                            Jake the cat had been killed in a night brawl somewhere.
                        Somehow, as Eugene stood in the kitchen watching his mother fry a big
                            steak and make biscuits and gravy in honor of his coming, he felt that
                            he did not belong to this world any more. It was smaller, narrower than
                            he had ever thought. The town had seemed smaller as he had come through
                            its streets, the houses  too; and yet it
                            was nice. The yards were sweet and simple, but countrified. His father,
                            running a sewing machine business, seemed tremendously limited. He had a
                            country or small town mind. It struck Eugene as curious now, that they
                            had never had a piano. And Myrtle liked music, too. As for himself, he
                            had learned that he was passionately fond of it. There were organ
                            recitals in the Central Music Hall, of Chicago, on Tuesday and Friday
                            afternoons, and he had managed to attend some after his work. There were
                            great preachers like Prof. Swing and the Rev. H. W. Thomas and the Rev
                            F. W. Gunsaulus and Prof. Saltus, liberal thinkers all, whose public
                            services in the city were always accompanied by lovely music. Eugene had
                            found all these men and their services in his search for life and to
                            avoid being lonely. Now they had taught him that his old world was no
                            world at all. It was a small town. He would never come to this any
                            more.
                        After a sound night's rest in his old room he went down the next
                            day to see Mr. Caleb Williams at the Appeal office,
                            and Mr. Burgess, and Jonas Lyle, and John Summers. As he went, on the
                            court house square he met Ed Mitchell and George Taps and Will Groniger,
                            and four or five others whom he had known in school. From them he
                            learned how things were. It appeared that George Anderson had married a
                            local girl and was in Chicago, working out in the stock yards. Ed
                            Waterbury had gone to San Francisco. The pretty Sampson girl, Bessie
                            Sampson, who had once gone with Ted Martin-wood so much, had run away
                            with a man from Anderson, Indiana. There had been a lot of talk about it
                            at the time. Eugene listened.
                        It all seemed less, though, than the new world that he had entered. Of
                            these fellows none knew the visions that were now surging in his brain.
                            Parisno lessand New Yorkby what far route he could scarcely tell. And
                            Will Groniger had got to be a baggage clerk at one of the two depots and
                            was proud of it. Good Heavens!
                        At the office of the Appeal things were unchanged.
                            Somehow Eugene had had the feeling that two years would make a lot of
                            difference, whereas the difference was in him only. He was the one who
                            had undergone cataclysmic changes. He had a been a stove polisher, a
                            real estate assistant, a driver and a collector. He had known Margaret
                            Duff, and Mr. Redwood, of the laundry, and Mr. Mitchly. The great city
                            had dawned on him; Verestchagin, and Bouguereau, and the Art Institute.
                            He was going on at one pace, the town was moving  at another onea slower, but quite as fast as it had ever
                            gone.
                        Caleb Williams was there, skipping about as of yore, cheerful,
                            communicative, interested. "I'm glad to see you back,
                            Eugene," he declared, fixing him with the one good eye which
                            watered. "I'm glad you're getting
                            alongthat's fine. Going to be an artist, eh? Well, I think
                            that's what you were cut out for. I wouldn't advise
                            every young fellow to go to Chicago, but that's where you
                            belong. If it wasn't for my wife and three children I never
                            would have left it. When you get a wife and family though" he
                            paused and shook his head. "I gad! You got to do the best you
                            can." Then he went to look up some missing copy.
                        Jonas Lyle was as portly, phlegmatic and philosophic as ever. He greeted
                            Eugene with a solemn eye in which there was inquiry. "Well, how
                            is it?" he asked.
                        Eugene smiled. "Oh, pretty good."
                        "Not going to be a printer, then?"
                        "No, I think not."
                        "Well, it's just as well, there're an awful
                            lot of them."
                        While they were talking John Summers sidled up.
                        "How are you, Mr. Witla?" he inquired.
                        Eugene looked at him. John was certainly marked for the grave in the near
                            future. He was thinner, of a bluish-grey color, bent at the
                            shoulders.
                        "Why, I'm fine, Mr. Summers," Eugene said.
                        "I'm not so good," said the old printer. He
                            tapped his chest significantly. "This thing's getting
                            the best of me."
                        "Don't you believe it," put in Lyle.
                            "John's always gloomy. He's just as good as
                            ever. I tell him he'll live twenty years yet."
                        "No, no," said Summers, shaking his head, "I
                            know."
                        He left after a bit to "go across the street," his
                            customary drinking excuse.
                        "He can't last another year," Lyle observed
                            the moment the door was closed. "Burgess only keeps him because
                            it would be a shame to turn him out. But he's done
                            for."
                        "Anyone can see that," said Eugene. "He looks
                            terrible."
                        So they talked.
                        At noon he went home. Myrtle announced that he was to come with her and
                            Mr. Bangs to a party that evening. There were going to be games and
                            refreshments. It never occurred to him that in this town there had never
                            been dancing among the boys and girls he moved with, and scarcely any
                            music. People did not have pianosor at least only a few of them.
                        
                        After supper Mr. Bangs called, and the three of them went to a typical
                            small town party. It was not much different from the ones Eugene had
                            attended with Stella, except that the participants were, in the main,
                            just that much older. Two years make a great deal of difference in
                            youth. There were some twenty-two young men and women all crowded into
                            three fair sized rooms and on a porch, the windows and doors leading to
                            which were open. Outside were brown grass and some autumn flowers. Early
                            crickets were chirping, and there were late fire-flies. It was warm and
                            pleasant.
                        The opening efforts to be sociable were a little stiff. There were
                            introductions all around, much smart badinage among town dandies, for
                            most of them were here. There were a number of new facesgirls who had
                            moved in from other towns or blossomed into maturity since Eugene had
                            left.
                        "If you'll marry me, Madge, I'll buy you a
                            nice new pair of seal skin earrings," he heard one of the young
                            bloods remark.
                        Eugene smiled, and the girl laughed back. "He always thinks
                            he's so cute."
                        It was almost impossible for Eugene to break through the opening sense of
                            reserve which clogged his actions at everything in the way of social
                            diversion. He was a little nervous because he was afraid of criticism.
                            That was his vanity and deep egotism. He stood about, trying to get into
                            the swing of the thing with a bright remark or two. Just as he was
                            beginning to bubble, a girl came in from one of the other rooms. Eugene
                            had not met her. She was with his prospective brother-in-law, Bangs, and
                            was laughing in a sweet, joyous way which arrested his attention. She
                            was dressed in white, he noticed, with a band of golden brown ribbon
                            pulled through the loops above the flounces at the bottom of her dress.
                            Her hair was a wonderful ashen yellow, a great mass of itand laid in
                            big, thick braids above her forehead and ears. Her nose was straight,
                            her lips were thin and red, her cheek-bones faintly but curiously
                            noticeable. Somehow there was a sense of distinction about her a faint
                            aroma of personality which Eugene did not understand. It appealed to
                            him.
                        Bangs brought her over. He was a tight, smiling youth, as sound as oak,
                            as clear as good water.
                        "Here's Miss Blue, Eugene. She's from up in
                            Wisconsin, and comes down to Chicago occasionally. I told her you ought
                            to know her. You might meet up there sometime."
                        "Say, but that's good luck, isn't
                            it?" smiled Eugene. "I'm  sure I'm glad to know you. What part of Wisconsin
                            do you come from?"
                        "Blackwood," she laughed, her greenish-blue eyes
                            dancing.
                        "Her hair is yellow, her eyes are blue, and she comes from
                            Blackwood," commented Bangs. "How's
                            that?" His big mouth, with its even teeth, was wide with a
                            smile.
                        "You left out the blue name and the white dress. She ought to
                            wear white all the time."
                        "Oh, it does harmonize with my name, doesn't
                            it?" she cried. "At home I do wear white mostly. You
                            see I'm just a country girl, and I make most of my
                            things."
                        "Did you make that?" asked Eugene.
                        "Of course I did."
                        Bangs moved away a little, looking at her as if critically.
                            "Well, that's really pretty," he
                            pronounced.
                        "Mr. Bangs is such a flatterer," she smiled at Eugene.
                            "He doesn't mean any thing he says. He just tells me
                            one thing after another."
                        "He's right," said Eugene. "I agree
                            as to the dress, and it fits the hair wonderfully."
                        "You see, he's lost, too," laughed Bangs,
                            "That's the way they all do. Well, I'm going
                            to leave you two. I've got to get back. I left your sister in
                            the hands of a rival of mine."
                        Eugene turned to this girl and laughed his reserved laugh. "I
                            was just thinking what was going to become of me. I've been
                            away for two years, and I've lost track of some of these
                            people."
                        "I'm worse yet. I've only been here two weeks
                            and I scarcely know anybody. Mrs. King takes me around everywhere, but
                            it's all so new I can't get hold of it. I think
                            Alexandria is lovely."
                        "It is nice. I suppose you've been out on the
                            lakes?"
                        "Oh, yes, We've fished and rowed and camped. I have had
                            a lovely time but I have to go back tomorrow."
                        "Do you?" said Eugene. "Why I do too.
                            I'm going to take the four-fifteen."
                        "So am I!" she laughed. "Perhaps we can go
                            together."
                        "Why, certainly. That's fine. I thought I'd
                            have to go back alone. I only came down for over Sunday. I've
                            been working up in Chicago."
                        They fell to telling each other their histories. She was from Blackwood,
                            only eighty-five miles from Chicago, and had lived there all her life.
                            There were several brothers and sisters. Her father was evidently a
                            farmer and politician and what not, and Eugene gleaned from stray
                            remarks that they must be well  thought of,
                            though poor. One brother-in-law was spoken of as a banker; another as
                            the owner of a grain elevator; she herself was a school teacher at
                            Blackwoodhad been for several years.
                        Eugene did not realize it, but she was fully five years older than
                            himself, with the tact and the superior advantage which so much
                            difference in years brings. She was tired of school-teaching, tired of
                            caring for the babies of married sisters, tired of being left to work
                            and stay at home when the ideal marrying age was rapidly passing. She
                            was interested in able people, and silly village boys did not appeal to
                            her. There was one who was begging her to marry him at this moment, but
                            he was a slow soul up in Blackwood, not actually worthy of her nor able
                            to support her well. She was hopefully, sadly, vaguely, madly longing
                            for something better, and as yet nothing had ever turned up. This
                            meeting with Eugene was not anything which promised a way out to her.
                            She was not seeking so urgentlynor did she give introductions that sort
                            of a twist in her consciousness. But this young man had an appeal for
                            her beyond anyone she had met recently. They were in sympathetic accord,
                            apparently. She liked his clear, big eyes, his dark hair, his rather
                            waxen complexion. He seemed something better than she had known, and she
                            hoped that he would be nice to her.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER VIII
                        
                            THE rest of that evening Eugene spent not exactly
                            with, but near Miss BlueMiss Angela Blue, as he found her name to be. He
                            was interested in her not so much from the point of view of looks,
                            though she was charming enough, but because of some peculiarity of
                            temperament which lingered with him as a grateful taste might dwell on
                            the palate. He thought her young; and was charmed by what he considered
                            her innocence and unsophistication. As a matter of fact she was not so
                            much young and unsophisticated as an unconscious simulator of
                            simplicity. In the conventional sense she was a thoroughly good girl,
                            loyal, financially honest, truthful in all commonplace things, and
                            thoroughly virtuous, moreover, in that she considered marriage and
                            children the fate and duty of all women. Having had so much trouble with
                            other peoples' children she was not anxious to have any, or at
                            least many, of her own. Of course, she did not believe that she would
                            escape with what seemed to be any such good fortune. She fancied that
                            she would be like her sisters, the wife of a good business or
                            professional man; the mother of three or four or five healthy children;
                            the keeper of an ideal middle class home; the handmaiden of her
                            husband's needs. There was a deep current of passion in her
                            which she had come to feel would never be satisfied. No man would ever
                            understand, no man at least whom she was likely to meet; but she knew
                            she had a great capacity to love. If someone would only come along and
                            arouse thatbe worthy of itwhat a whirlwind of affection she would return
                            to him! How she would love, how sacrifice! But it seemed now that her
                            dreams were destined never to be fulfilled, because so much time had
                            slipped by and she had not been courted by the right one. So here she
                            was now at twenty-five, dreaming and longingthe object of her ideals
                            thus accidentally brought before her, and no immediate consciousness
                            that that was the case.
                        It does not take sexual affinity long to manifest itself, once its
                            subjects are brought near to each other. Eugene was older in certain
                            forms of knowledge, broader in a sense, potentially greater than she
                            would ever comprehend; but nevertheless, swayed helplessly by emotion
                            and desire. Her own emotions, though perhaps stronger than his, were
                            differently aroused. The stars, the night, a lovely scene, any exquisite
                            attribute of nature  could fascinate him to
                            the point of melancholy. With her, nature in its largest aspects passed
                            practically unnoticed. She responded to music feelingly, as did Eugene.
                            In literature, only realism appealed to him; for her, sentiment,
                            strained though not necessarily unreal, had the greatest charm. Art in
                            its purely sthetic forms meant nothing at all to her. To Eugene it was
                            the last word in the matter of emotional perception. History,
                            philosophy, logic, psychology, were sealed books to her. To Eugene they
                            were already open doors, or, better yet, flowery paths of joy, down
                            which he was wandering. Yet in spite of these things they were being
                            attracted toward each other.
                        And there were other differences. With Eugene convention meant nothing at
                            all, and his sense of evil and good was something which the ordinary
                            person would not have comprehended. He was prone to like all sorts and
                            conditions of human beingsthe intellectual, the ignorant, the clean, the
                            dirty, the gay, the sorrowful, white, yellow, black. As for Angela, she
                            had a distinct preference for those who conducted themselves according
                            to given standards of propriety. She was brought up to think of those
                            people as best who worked the hardest, denied themselves the most, and
                            conformed to the ordinary notions of right and wrong. There was no
                            questioning of current standards in her mind. As it was written socially
                            and ethically upon the tables of the law, so was it. There might be
                            charming characters outside the pale, but they were not admitted to
                            association or sympathy. To Eugene a human being was a human being. The
                            ruck of misfits or ne'er-do-wells he could laugh joyously with
                            or at. It was all wonderful, beautiful, amusing. Even its grimmess and
                            tragedy were worth while, although they hurt him terribly at times. Why,
                            under these circumstances, he should have been so thoroughly attracted
                            to Angela remains a mystery. Perhaps they complemented each other at
                            this time as a satellite complements a larger luminaryfor
                            Eugene's egoism required praise, sympathy, feminine coddling;
                            and Angela caught fire from the warmth and geniality of his
                            temperament.
                        On the train next day Eugene had nearly three hours of what he deemed
                            most delightful talk with her. They had not journeyed far before he had
                            told her how he had traveled this way, on this train, at this hour, two
                            years before; how he had walked about the streets of the big city,
                            looking for a place to sleep, how he had got work and stayed away until
                            he felt that he had found himself. Now he was going to study art and
                            then to New York or Paris, and do magazine illustrating and possibly
                            paint pictures. He was truly your flamboyant youth of talent when he got
                            to  talkingwhen he had a truly sympathetic
                            ear. He loved to boast to someone who really admired him, and he felt
                            that he had admiration here. Angela looked at him with swimming eyes. He
                            was really different from anything she had ever known, young, artistic,
                            imaginative, ambitious. He was going out into a world which she had
                            longed for but never hoped to seethat of art. Here he was telling her of
                            his prospective art studies, and talking of Paris. What a wonderful
                            thing!
                        As the train neared Chicago she explained that she would have to make an
                            almost immediate connection with one which left over the Chicago
                            Milwaukee and St. Paul, for Blackwood. She was a little lonely, to tell
                            the truth, a little sick at heart, for the summer vacation was over and
                            she was going back to teach school. Alexandria, for the two weeks she
                            had been there visiting Mrs. King (formerly a Blackwood girl and
                            schoolday chum of hers), was lovely. Her girlhood friend had tried to
                            make things most pleasant and now it was all over. Even Eugene was over,
                            for he said nothing much of seeing her again, or had not so far. She was
                            wishing she might see more of this world he painted in such glowing
                            colors, when he said:
                        "Mr. Bangs said that you come down to Chicago every now and
                            then?"
                        "I do," she replied. "I sometimes come down to
                            go to the theatres and shop." She did not say that there was an
                            element of practical household commercialism in it, for she was
                            considered one of the best buyers in the family and that she was sent to
                            buy by various members of the family in quantities. From a practical
                            household point of view she was a thoroughbred and was valued by her
                            sisters and friends as someone who loved to do things. She might have
                            come to be merely a family pack horse, solely because she loved to work.
                            It was instinct to do everything she did thoroughly, but she worked
                            almost exclusively in minor household matters.
                        "How soon do you expect to come down again?" he
                            asked.
                        "Oh, I can't tell. I sometimes come down when Opera is
                            on in the winter. I may be here around Thanksgiving."
                        "Not before that?"
                        "I don't think so," she replied archly.
                        "That's too bad. I thought maybe I'd see you a
                            few times this fall. When you do come I wish you could let me know.
                            I'd like to take you to the theatre."
                        Eugene spent precious little money on any entertainment, but he thought
                            he could venture this. She would not be down often. Then, too, he had
                            the notion that he might get a rise  one of
                            these daysthat would make a difference. When she came again he would be
                            in art school, opening up another field for himself. Life looked
                            hopeful.
                        "That's so nice of you," she replied.
                            "And when I come I'll let you know. I'm just
                            a country girl," she added, with a toss of her head,
                            "and I don't get to the city often."
                        Eugene liked what he considered the guileless navet of her confessionsthe
                            frankness with which she owned up to simplicity and poverty. Most girls
                            didn't. She almost made a virtue out of these thingsat least
                            they were charming as a confession in her.
                        "I'll hold you to that," he assured her.
                        "Oh, you needn't. I'll be glad to let you
                            know."
                        They were nearing the station. He forgot, for the moment that she was not
                            as remote and delicate in her beauty as Stella, that she was apparently
                            not as passionate temperamentally as Margaret. He saw her wonderfully
                            dull hair and her thin lips and peculiar blue eyes, and admired her
                            honesty and simplicity. He picked up her grip and helped her to find her
                            train. When they came to part he pressed her hand warmly, for she had
                            been very nice to him, so attentive and sympathetic and interested.
                        "Now remember!" he said gaily, after he had put her in
                            her seat in the local.
                        "I won't forget."
                        "You wouldn't mind if I wrote you now and
                            then?"
                        "Not at all. I'd like it."
                        "Then I will," he said, and went out.
                        He stood outside and looked at her through the train window as it pulled
                            out. He was glad to have met her. This was the right sort of girl,
                            clean, honest, simple, attractive. That was the way the best women
                            weregood and purenot wild pieces of fire like Margaret; nor unconscious,
                            indifferent beauties like Stella, he was going to add, but
                            couldn't. There was a voice within him that said that
                            artistically Stella was perfect and even now it hurt him a little to
                            remember. But Stella was gone forever, there was no doubt about
                            that.
                        During the days that followed he thought of the girl often. He wondered
                            what sort of a town Blackwood was; what sort of people she moved with,
                            what sort of a house she lived in. They must be nice, simple people like
                            his own in Alexandria. These types of city bred people whom he sawgirls
                            particularlyand those born to wealth, had no appeal for him as yet. They
                            were too distant, too far removed from anything he could aspire to. A
                            good woman such as Miss Blue obviously was
                             must be a treasure anywhere in the world.
                            He kept thinking he would write to herhe had no other girl acquaintance
                            now; and just before he entered art school he did this, penning a little
                            note saying that he remembered so pleasantly their ride; and when was
                            she coming? Her answer, after a week, was that she expected to be in the
                            city about the middle or the end of October and that she would be glad
                            to have him call. She gave him the number of an aunt who lived out on
                            the North Side in Ohio Street, and said she would notify him further.
                            She was hard at work teaching school now, and didn't even have
                            time to think of the lovely summer she had had.
                        "Poor little girl," he thought. She deserved a better
                            fate. "When she comes I'll surely look her
                            up," he thought, and there was a lot that went with the idea.
                            Such wonderful hair!
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER IX
                        
                            THE succeeding days in the art school after his first
                            admission revealed many new things to Eugene. He understood now, or
                            thought he did, why artists were different from the rank and file of
                            mankind. This Art Institute atmosphere was something so refreshing after
                            his days rambling among poor neighborhoods collecting, that he could
                            hardly believe that he, Eugene Witla, belonged there. These were
                            exceptional young people; some of them, anyhow. If they weren't
                            cut out to be good artists they still had imaginationthe dream of the
                            artist. They came, as Eugene gradually learned, from all parts of the
                            West and South, from Chicago and St. Louisfrom Kansas, Nebraska and
                            Iowafrom Texas and California and Minnesota. One boy was in from
                            Saskatchewan of the Canadian north west, another from the then territory
                            of New Mexico. Because his name was Gill they called him the Gila
                            monsterthe difference in the pronunciation of the
                            "G's" not troubling them at all. A boy who
                            came down from Minnesota was a farmer's son, and talked about
                            going back to plow and sow and reap during the next spring and summer.
                            Another boy was the son of a Kansas City millionaire.
                        The mechanics of drawing interested Eugene from the first. He learned the
                            first night that there was some defect in his understanding of light and
                            shade as it related to the human form. He could not get any roundness or
                            texture in his drawings.
                        "The darkest shadow is always closest to the high
                            light," observed his instructor laconically on Wednesday
                            evening, looking over his shoulder. "You're making
                            everything a dull, even tone." So that was it.
                        "You're drawing this figure as a bricklayer who
                            isn't an architect might start to build a house.
                            You're laying bricks without having a plan. Where's
                            your plan?" The voice was that of Mr. Boyle looking over his
                            shoulder.
                        Eugene looked up. He had begun to draw the head only.
                        "A plan! A plan!" said his instructor, making a
                            peculiar motion with his hands which described the outline of the pose
                            in a single motion. "Get your general lines first. Then you can
                            put in the details afterward."
                        Eugene saw at once.
                        
                        Another time his instructor was watching him draw the female breast. He
                            was doing it woodenlywithout much beauty of contour.
                        "They're round! They're round! I tell
                            you!" exclaimed Boyle. "If you ever see any square
                            ones let me know."
                        This caught Eugene's sense of humor. It made him laugh, even
                            though he flushed painfully, for he knew he had a lot to learn.
                        The cruelest thing he heard this man say was to a boy who was rather
                            thick and fat but conscientious. "You can't
                            draw," he said roughly. "Take my advice and go home.
                            You'll make more money driving a wagon."
                        The class winced, but this man was ugly in his intolerance of futility.
                            The idea of anybody wasting his time was obnoxious to him. He took art
                            as a business man takes business, and he had no time for the misfit, the
                            fool, or the failure. He wanted his class to know that art meant
                            effort.
                        Aside from this brutal insistence on the significance of art, there was
                            another side to the life which was not so hard and in a way more
                            alluring. Between the twenty-five minute poses which the model took,
                            there were some four or five minute rests during the course of the
                            evening in which the students talked, relighted their pipes and did much
                            as they pleased. Sometimes students from other classes came in for a few
                            moments.
                        The thing that astonished Eugene though, was the freedom of the model
                            with the students and the freedom of the students with her. After the
                            first few weeks he observed some of those who had been there the year
                            before going up to the platform where the girl sat, and talking with
                            her. She had a little pink gauze veil which she drew around her
                            shoulders or waist that instead of reducing the suggestiveness of her
                            attitudes heightened them.
                        "Say, ain't that enough to make everything go black in
                            front of your eyes," said one boy sitting next to Eugene.
                        "Well, I guess," he laughed. "There's
                            some edge to that."
                        The boys would sit and laugh and jest with this girl, and she would laugh
                            and coquette in return. He saw her strolling about looking at some of
                            the students' drawings of her over their shoulders, standing
                            face to face with othersand so calmly. The strong desire which it
                            invariably aroused in Eugene he quelled and concealed, for these things
                            were not to be shown on the surface. Once, while he was looking at some
                            photographs that a student had brought, she came and looked over his
                            shoulder,  this little flower of the
                            streets, her body graced by the thin scarf, her lips and cheeks red with
                            color. She came so close that she leaned against his shoulder and arm
                            with her soft flesh. It pulled him tense, like a great current; but he
                            made no sign, pretending that it was the veriest commonplace. Several
                            times, because the piano was there, and because students would sing and
                            play in the interludes, she came and sat on the piano stool herself,
                            strumming out an accompaniment to which some one or three or four would
                            sing. Somehow this, of all things, seemed most sensuous to himmost
                            oriental. It set him wild. He felt his teeth click without volition on
                            his part. When she resumed her pose, his passion subsided, for then the
                            cold, sthetic value of her beauty became uppermost. It was only the
                            incidental things that upset him.
                        In spite of these disturbances, Eugene was gradually showing improvement
                            as a draughtsman and an artist. He liked to draw the figure. He was not
                            as quick at that as he was at the more varied outlines of landscapes and
                            buildings, but he could give lovely sensuous touches to the human
                            formparticularly to the female formwhich were beginning to be
                            impressive. He'd got past the place where Boyle had ever to say
                            "They're round." He gave a sweep to his lines
                            that attracted the instructor's attention.
                        "You're getting the thing as a whole, I see,"
                            he said quietly, one day. Eugene thrilled with satisfaction. Another
                            Wednesday he said:"A little colder, my boy, a little colder.
                            There's sex in that. It isn't in the figure. You ought
                            to make a good mural decorator some day, if you have the
                            inclination," Boyle went on; "you've got the
                            sense of beauty." The roots of Eugene's hair tingled.
                            So art was coming to him. This man saw his capacity. He really had art
                            in him.
                        One evening a paper sign pasted up on the bulletin board bore the
                            significant legend: "Artists! Attention! We eat! We eat! Nov.
                            16th. at Sofroni's. All those who want to get in give their
                            names to the monitor."
                        Eugene had heard nothing of this, but he judged that it originated in one
                            of the other classes. He spoke to the monitor and learned that only
                            seventy-five cents was required of him. Students could bring girls if
                            they wished. Most of them would. He decided that he would go. But where
                            to get a girl? Sofroni's was an Italian restaurant in lower
                            Clark Street, which had originally started out as an eating place for
                            Italian laborers, because it was near an Italian boarding house section.
                            It was located in an old house that was not exactly homely. A yard  in the back had been set with plain wooden
                            tables, and benches had been placed for use in the summer time and,
                            later, this had been covered with a mouldy tent-cloth to protect the
                            diners from rain. Still later this became glass and was used in winter.
                            The place was clean and the food good. Some struggling craftsman in
                            journalism and art had found it and by degrees Signor Sofroni had come
                            to realize that he was dealing with a better element. He began to
                            exchange greetings with these peopleto set aside a little corner for
                            them. Finally he entertained a small group of them at dinnercharging
                            them hardly more than cost priceand so he was launched. One student told
                            another. Sofroni now had his yard covered in so that he could entertain
                            a hundred at dinner, even in winter. He could serve several kinds of
                            wines and liquors with a dinner for seventy-five cents a piece. So he
                            was popular.
                        The dinner was the culmination of several other class treats. It was the
                            custom of a class, whenever a stranger, or even a new member appeared,
                            to yell "Treat! Treat!" at which the victim or new
                            member was supposed to produce two dollars as a contribution to a beer
                            fund. If the money was not producedthe stranger was apt to be thrown out
                            or some ridiculous trick played upon himif it was forthcoming, work for
                            the evening ceased. A collection was immediately taken up. Kegs of beer
                            were sent for, with sandwiches and cheese. Drinking, singing, piano
                            playing, jesting followed. Once, to Eugene's utter
                            astonishment, one of the studentsa big, good natured, carousing boy from
                            Omahalifted the nude model to his shoulders, set her astride his neck
                            and proceeded around the room, jigging as he wentthe girl meantime
                            pulling his black hair, the other students following and shouting
                            uproariously. Some of the girls in an adjoining room, studying in an
                            evening life class, stopped their work to peep through a half dozen
                            small holes which had been punched in the intervening partition. The
                            sight of Showalter carrying the girl so astonished the eavesdroppers
                            that the news of it was soon all over the building. Knowledge of the
                            escapade reached the Secretary and the next day the student was dropped.
                            But the Bacchic dance had been enactedits impression was left.
                        There were other treats like this in which Eugene was urged to drink, and
                            he dida very little. He had no taste for beer. He also tried to smoke,
                            but he did not care for it. He could become nervously intoxicated at
                            times, by the mere sight of such revelry, and then he grew witty, easy
                            in his motions, quick to say bright things. On one of these occasions
                            one of the models  said to him:
                            "Why, you're nicer than I thought. I imagined you were
                            very solemn."
                        "Oh, no," he said, "only at times. You
                            don't know me."
                        He seized her about the waist, but she pushed him away. He wished now
                            that he danced, for he saw that he might have whirled her about the room
                            then and there. He decided to learn at once.
                        The question of a girl for the dinner, troubled him. He knew of no one
                            except Margaret, and he did not know that she danced. There was Miss
                            Blue, of Blackwoodwhom he had seen when she made her promised visit to
                            the citybut the thought of her in connection with anything like this was
                            to him incongruous. He wondered what she would think if she saw such
                            scenes as he had witnessed.
                        It chanced that one day when he was in the members' room, he met
                            Miss Kenny, the girl whom he had seen posing the night he had entered
                            the school. Eugene remembered her fascination, for she was the first
                            nude model he had ever seen and she was pretty. She was also the one who
                            had come and stood by him when she was posing. He had not seen her since
                            then. She had liked Eugene, but he had seemed a little distant and, at
                            first, a little commonplace. Lately he had taken to a loose, flowing tie
                            and a soft round hat which became him. He turned his hair back loosely
                            and emulated the independent swing of Mr. Temple Boyle. That man was a
                            sort of god to himstrong and successful. To be like that!
                        The girl noted a change for what she deemed the better. He was so nice
                            now, she thought, so white-skinned and clear-eyed and keen.
                        She pretended to be looking at the drawing of a nude when she saw
                            him.
                        "How are you?" he asked, smiling, venturing to speak to
                            her because he was lonely and because he knew no other girl.
                        She turned gaily, and returned the question, facing him with smiling lips
                            and genial eyes.
                        "I haven't seen you for some time," he said.
                            "Are you back here now?"
                        "For this week," she said. "I'm doing
                            studio work. I don't care for classes when I can get the
                            other."
                        I thought you liked them!" he replied, recalling her gaiety of
                            mood.
                        "Oh, I don't dislike it. Only, studio work is
                            better."
                        "We've missed you," he said. "The
                            others haven't been nearly as nice."
                        
                        "Aren't you complimentary," she laughed, her
                            black eyes looking into his with a twinkle.
                        "No, it's so," he returned, and then asked
                            hopefully, "Are you going to the dinner on the
                            16th?"
                        "Maybe," she said. "I haven't made up
                            my mind. It all depends."
                        "On what?"
                        "On how I feel and who asks me."
                        "I shouldn't think there'd be any trouble
                            about that," he observed. "If I had a girl
                            I'd go," he went on, making a terrific effort to reach
                            the point where he could ask her. She saw his intention.
                        "Well?" she laughed.
                        "Would you go with me?" he ventured, thus so
                            shamelessly assisted.
                        "Sure!" she said, for she liked him.
                        "That's fine!" he exclaimed. "Where
                            do you live? I'll want to know that." He searched for
                            a pencil.
                        She gave him her number on West Fifty-seventh Street.
                        Because of his collecting he knew the neighborhood. It was a street of
                            shabby frame houses far out on the South Side. He remembered great mazes
                            of trade near it, and unpaved streets and open stretches of wet prairie
                            land. Somehow it seemed fitting to him that this little flower of the
                            muck and coal yard area should be a model.
                        "I'll be sure and get you," he laughed.
                            "You won't forget, will you, Miss"
                        "Just Ruby," she interrupted. "Ruby
                            Kenny."
                        "It's a pretty name, isn't it?" he
                            said. "It's euphonious. You wouldn't let me
                            come out some Sunday and see just where it is?"
                        "Yes, you may," she replied, pleased by his comment on
                            her name. "I'm home most every Sunday. Come out next
                            Sunday afternoon, if you want to."
                        "I will," said Eugene.
                        He walked out to the street with her in a very buoyant mood.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER X
                        
                            RUBY KENNY was the adopted child of an old Irish
                            laborer and his wife who had taken her from a quarrelling couple when
                            they had practically deserted her at the age of four years. She was
                            bright, good natured, not at all informed as to the social organization
                            of the world, just a simple little girl with a passion for adventure and
                            no saving insight which would indicate beforehand whither adventure
                            might lead. She began life as a cash girl in a department store and was
                            spoiled of her virtue at fifteen. She was rather fortunate in that her
                            smartness attracted the rather superior, capable, self-protecting type
                            of man; and these were fortunate too, in that she was not utterly
                            promiscuous, appetite with her waiting on strong liking, and in one or
                            two cases real affection, and culminating only after a period of
                            dalliance which made her as much a victim of her moods as were her
                            lovers. Her foster parents provided no guidance of any intelligent
                            character. They liked her, and since she was brighter than they were,
                            submitted to her rule, her explanations of conduct, her taste. She waved
                            aside with a laughing rejoinder any slight objections they might make,
                            and always protested that she did not care what the neighbors
                            thought.
                        The visits which Eugene paid, and the companionship which ensued, were of
                            a piece with every other relationship of this character which he ever
                            entered into. He worshiped beauty as beauty, and he never wholly missed
                            finding a certain quality of mind and heart for which he longed. He
                            sought in women, besides beauty, good nature and sympathy; he shunned
                            criticism and coldness, and was never apt to select for a sweetheart
                            anyone who could outshine him either in emotion or rapidity or
                            distinction of ideas.
                        He liked, at this time, simple things, simple homes, simple surroundings,
                            the commonplace atmosphere of simple life, for the more elegant and
                            imposing overawed him. The great mansions which he saw, the great trade
                            structures, the great, significant personalities, seemed artificial and
                            cold. He liked little peoplepeople who were not known, but who were
                            sweet and kindly in their moods. If he could find female beauty with
                            anything like that as a background he was happy and settled down near
                            it, if he could, in comfort. His drawing near to Ruby was governed by
                            this mood.
                        
                        The Sunday Eugene called, it rained and the neighborhood in which she
                            lived was exceedingly dreary. Looking around here and there one could
                            see in the open spaces between the houses pools of water standing in the
                            brown, dead grass. He had crossed a great maze of black cindered car
                            tracks, where engines and cars were in great masses, and speculated on
                            the drawings such scenes would makebig black engines throwing up clouds
                            of smoke and steam in a grey, wet air; great mazes of parti-colored cars
                            dank in the rain but lovely. At night the switch lights in these great
                            masses of yards bloomed like flowers. He loved the sheer yellows, reds,
                            greens, blues, that burned like eyes. Here was the stuff that touched
                            him magnificently, and somehow he was glad that this raw flowering girl
                            lived near something like this.
                        When he reached the door and rang the bell he was greeted by an old shaky
                            Irish-American who seemed to him rather low in the scale of
                            intelligencethe kind of a man who would make a good crossing guard,
                            perhaps. He had on common, characterful clothes, the kind that from long
                            wear have taken the natural outlines of the body. In his fingers was a
                            short pipe which he had been smoking.
                        "Is Miss Kenny in?" Eugene inquired.
                        "Yus," said the man. "Come in. I'll
                            git her." He poked back through a typical workingman's
                            parlor to a rear room. Someone had seen to it that almost everything in
                            the room was redthe big silk-shaded lamp, the family album, the carpet
                            and the red flowered wall paper.
                        While he was waiting he opened the album and looked at what he supposed
                            were her relativescommonplace people, allclerks, salesmen,
                            store-keepers. Presently Ruby came, and then his eye lighted, for there
                            was about her a smartness of youthshe was not more than nineteenwhich
                            captivated his fancy. She had on a black cashmere dress with touches of
                            red velvet at the neck and elsewhere, and she wore a loose red tie, much
                            as a boy might. She looked gay and cheerful and held out her hand.
                        "Did you have much trouble in getting here?" she
                            asked.
                        He shook his head. "I know this country pretty well. I collect
                            all through here week days. I work for the Peoples' Furniture
                            Company, you know."
                        "Oh, then it's all right," she said, enjoying
                            his frankness. "I thought you'd have a hard time
                            finding it. It's a pretty bad day, isn't
                            it?"
                        Eugene admitted that it was, but commented on the car tracks  he had seen. "If I could paint at
                            all I'd like to paint those things. They're so big and
                            wonderful."
                        He went to the window and gazed out at the neighborhood.
                        Ruby watched him with interest. His movements were pleasing to her. She
                            felt at home in his companyas though she were going to like him very
                            much. It was so easy to talk to him. There were the classes, her studio
                            work, his own career, this neighborhood, to give her a feeling of
                            congeniality with him.
                        "Are there many big studios in Chicago?" he asked when
                            they finally got around to that phase of her work. He was curious to
                            know what the art life of the city was.
                        "No, not so very manynot, at least, of the good ones. There are
                            a lot of fellows who think they can paint."
                        "Who are the big ones?" he asked.
                        "Well, I only know by what I hear artists say. Mr. Rose is
                            pretty good. Byam Jones is pretty fine on genre
                            subjects, so they say. Walter Low is a good portrait painter, and so is
                            Manson Steele. And let's seethere's Arthur Biggshe
                            does landscapes only; I've never been in his studio; and Finley
                            Wood, he's another portrait man; and Wilson Brooks, he does
                            figuresOh! I don't know, there are quite a
                            number."
                        Eugene listened entranced. This patter of art matters was more in the way
                            of definite information about personalities than he had heard during all
                            the time he had been in the city. The girl knew these things. She was in
                            the movement. He wondered what her relationship to these various people
                            was?
                        He got up after a time and looked out of the window again. She came also.
                            "It's not very nice around here," she
                            explained, "but papa and mamma like to live here. It's
                            near papa's work."
                        "Was that your father I met at the door?"
                        "They're not my real parents," she explained.
                            "I'm an adopted child. They're just like real
                            parents to me, though, I certainly owe them a lot."
                        "You can't have been posing in art very long,"
                            said Eugene thoughtfully, thinking of her age.
                        "No; I only began about a year ago."
                        She told how she had been a clerk in The Fair and how she and another
                            girl had got the idea from seeing articles in the Sunday papers. There
                            was once a picture in the Tribune of a model posing in the nude before
                            the local life class. This had taken her eye and she had consulted with
                            the other girl as to whether they had not better try posing, too. Her
                            friend, like herself, was still posing. She was coming to the
                            dinner.
                        Eugene listened entranced. It reminded him of how he was  caught by the picture of Goose Island in
                            the Chicago River, of the little tumble-down huts and upturned hulls of
                            boats used for homes. He told her of that and of how he came, and it
                            touched her fancy. She thought he was sentimental but niceand then he
                            was big, too, and she was so much smaller.
                        "You play?" he asked, "don't
                            you?"
                        "Oh, just a little. But we haven't got a piano. I
                            learned what I know by practising at the different
                            studios."
                        "Do you dance?" asked Eugene.
                        "Yes, indeed," she replied.
                        "I wish I did," he commented ruefully.
                        "Why don't you? It's easy. You could learn in
                            no time. I could teach you in a lesson."
                        "I wish you would," he said persuasively.
                        "It isn't hard," she went on, moving away from
                            him. "I can show you the steps. They always begin with the
                            waltz."
                        She lifted her skirts and exposed her little feet. She explained what to
                            do and how to do it. He tried it alone, but failed; so she got him to
                            put his arm around her and placed her hand in his. "Now, follow
                            me," she said.
                        It was so delightful to find her in his arms! And she was apparently in
                            no hurry to conclude the lesson, for she worked with him quite
                            patiently, explaining the steps, stopping and correcting him, laughing
                            at her mistakes and his. "You're getting it,
                            though," she said, after they had turned around a few
                            times.
                        They had looked into each other's eyes a number of times and she
                            gave him frank smiles in return for his. He thought of the time when she
                            stood by him in the studio, looking over his shoulder. Surely, surely
                            this gap of formalities might be bridged over at once if he triedif he
                            had the courage. He pulled her a little closer and when they stopped he
                            did not let go.
                        "You're mighty sweet to me," he said with an
                            effort.
                        "No, I'm just good natured," she laughed, not
                            endeavoring to break away.
                        He became emotionally tense, as always.
                        She rather liked what seemed the superiority of his mood. It was
                            different, stronger than was customary in the men she knew.
                        "Do you like me?" he asked, looking at her.
                        She studied his face and hair and eyes.
                        "I don't know," she returned calmly.
                        "Are you sure you don't?"
                        
                        There was another pause in which she looked almost mockingly at him and
                            then, sobering, away at the hall door.
                        "Yes, I think I do," she said.
                        He picked her up in his arms. "You're as cute as a
                            doll," he said and carried her to the red settee. She spent the
                            rest of the rainy afternoon resting in his arms and enjoying his kisses.
                            He was a new and peculiar kind of boy.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XI
                        
                            A LITTLE while before, Angela Blue at
                            Eugene's earnest solicitation had paid her first Fall visit to
                            Chicago. She had made a special effort to come, lured by a certain
                            poignancy of expression which he could give to any thought, particularly
                            when it concerned his desires. In addition to the art of drawing he had
                            the gift of writingvery slow in its development from a structural and
                            interpretative point of view, but powerful already on its descriptive
                            side. He could describe anything, people, houses, horses, dogs,
                            landscapes, much as he could draw them and give a sense of tenderness
                            and pathos in the bargain which was moving. He could describe city
                            scenes and the personal atmosphere which surrounded him in the most
                            alluring fashion. He had little time to write, but he took it in this
                            instance to tell this girl what he was doing and how he was doing it.
                            She was captivated by the quality of the world in which he was moving,
                            and the distinction of his own personality, which he indicated rather
                            indirectly than otherwise. By contrast her own little world began to
                            look very shabby indeed.
                        She came shortly after his art school opened, and at her invitation he
                            went out to the residence of her aunt on the North Side, a nice,
                            pleasant brick house in a quiet side street, which had all the airs of
                            middle class peace and comfort. He was impressed with what seemed to him
                            a sweet, conservative atmospherea fitting domicile for a girl so dainty
                            and refined as Angela. He paid his respects early Saturday morning
                            because her neighborhood happened to be in the direction of his
                            work.
                        She played for himbetter than anyone he had ever known. It seemed to him
                            a great accomplishment. Her temperament attracted her to music of a high
                            emotional order and to songs and instrumental compositions of
                            indefinable sweetness. In the half hour he stayed she played several
                            things, and he noted with a new pleasure her small shapely body in a
                            dress of a very simple, close fitting design; her hair hung in two great
                            braids far below her waist. She reminded him the least bit of Marguerite
                            in "Faust."
                        He went again in the evening, shining and eager, and arrayed in his best.
                            He was full of the sense of his art prospects, and happy to see her
                            again, for he was satisfied that he was going to fall in love with her.
                            She had a strong, sympathetic attitude 
                            which allured him. She wanted to be nice to this youthwanted him to like
                            herand so the atmosphere was right.
                        That evening he took her to the Chicago Opera House, where there was
                            playing an extravaganza. This fantasy, so beautiful in its stage-craft,
                            so gorgeous in its show of costumes and pretty girls, so idle in its
                            humor and sweet in its love songs, captivated both Eugene and Angela.
                            Neither had been to a theatre for a long time; both were en rapport with
                            some such fantastic interpretation of existence. After the short
                            acquaintance at Alexandria it was a nice coming together. It gave point
                            to their reunion.
                        After the performance he guided her through the surging crowds to a North
                            Division Street carthey had laid cables since his arrivaland together
                            they went over the beauties and humor of the thing they had seen. He
                            asked permission to call again next day, and at the end of an afternoon
                            in her company, proposed that they go to hear a famous preacher who was
                            speaking in Central Music Hall evenings.
                        Angela was pleased at Eugene's resourcefulness. She wanted to be
                            with him; this was a good excuse. They went early and enjoyed it. Eugene
                            liked the sermon as an expression of youth and beauty and power to
                            command. He would have liked to be an orator like that, and he told
                            Angela so. And he confided more and more of himself to her. She was
                            impressed by his vivid interest in life, his selective power, and felt
                            that he was destined to be a notable personality.
                        There were other meetings. She came again in early November and before
                            Christmas and Eugene was fast becoming lost in the meshes of her hair.
                            Although he met Ruby in November and took up a tentative relation on a
                            less spiritual basisas he would have said at the timehe nevertheless
                            held this acquaintanceship with Angela in the background as a superior
                            and more significant thing. She was purer than Ruby; there was in her
                            certainly a deeper vein of feeling, as expressed in her thoughts and
                            music. Moreover she represented a country home, something like his own,
                            a nice simple country town, nice people. Why should he part with her, or
                            ever let her know anything of this other world that he touched? He did
                            not think he ought to. He was afraid that he would lose her, and he knew
                            that she would make any man an ideal wife. She came again in December
                            and he almost proposed to herhe must not be free with her or draw too
                            near too rapidly. She made him feel the sacredness of love and marriage.
                            And he did propose in January.
                        The artist is a blend of subtleties in emotion which can not be  classified. No one woman could have
                            satisfied all sides of Eugene's character at that time. Beauty
                            was the point with him. Any girl who was young, emotional or sympathetic
                            to the right degree and beautiful would have attracted and held him for
                            a while. He loved beautynot a plan of life. He was interested in an
                            artistic career, not in the founding of a family. Girlhoodthe beauty of
                            youthwas artistic, hence he craved it.
                        Angela's mental and emotional composition was stable. She had
                            learned to believe from childhood that marriage was a fixed thing. She
                            believed in one life and one love. When you found that, every other
                            relationship which did not minister to it was ended. If children came,
                            very good; if not, very good; marriage was permanent anyhow. And if you
                            did not marry happily it was nevertheless your duty to endure and suffer
                            for whatever good might remain. You might suffer badly in such a union,
                            but it was dangerous and disgraceful to break it. If you could not stand
                            it any more, your life was a failure.
                        Of course, Eugene did not know what he was trifling with. He had no
                            conception of the nature of the relationship he was building up. He went
                            on blindly dreaming of this girl as an ideal, and anticipating eventual
                            marriage with her. When that would be, he had no idea, for though his
                            salary had been raised at Christmas he was getting only eighteen dollars
                            a week; but he deemed it would come within a reasonable time.
                        Meanwhile, his visits to Ruby had brought the inevitable result. The very
                            nature of the situation seemed to compel it. She was young, brimming
                            over with a love of adventure, admiring youth and strength in men.
                            Eugene, with his pale face, which had just a touch of melancholy about
                            it, his sex magnetism, his love of beauty, appealed to her. Uncurbed
                            passion was perhaps uppermost to begin with; very shortly it was
                            confounded with affection, for this girl could love. She was sweet, good
                            natured, ignorant of life from many points of view. Eugene represented
                            the most dramatic imagination she had yet seen. She described to him the
                            character of her foster parents, told how simple they were and how she
                            could do about as she pleased. They did not know that she posed in the
                            nude. She confided to him her particular friendship for certain artists,
                            denying any present intimacies. She admitted them in the past, but
                            asserted that they were bygones. Eugene really did not believe this. He
                            suspected her of meeting other approaches in the spirit in which she had
                            met his own. It aroused his jealousy, and he wished at once that she
                            were not a model. He said as much and she laughed. She  knew he would act like that, it was the
                            first proof of real, definite interest in her on his part.
                        From that time on there were lovely days and evenings spent in her
                            company. Before the dinner she invited him over to breakfast one Sunday.
                            Her foster parents were to be away and she was to have the house to
                            herself. She wanted to cook Eugene a breakfastprincipally to show him
                            she could cookand then it was novel. She waited till he arrived at nine
                            to begin operations and then, arrayed in a neat little lavender, close
                            fitting house dress, and a ruffled white apron, went about her work,
                            setting the table, making biscuit, preparing a kidney ragout with strong
                            wine, and making coffee.
                        Eugene was delighted. He followed her about, delaying her work by taking
                            her in his arms and kissing her. She got flour on her nose and he
                            brushed it off with Ins lips.
                        It was on this occasion that she showed him a very pleasing little dance
                            she could doa clog dance, which had a running, side-ways motion, with
                            frequent and rapid clicking of the heels. She gathered her skirts a
                            little way above her ankles and twinkled her feet through a maze of
                            motions. Eugene was beside himself with admiration. He told himself he
                            had never met such a girlto be so clever at posing, playing and dancing,
                            and so young. He thought she would make a delightful creature to live
                            with, and he wished now he had money enough to make it possible. At this
                            high-flown moment and at some others he thought he might almost marry
                            her.
                        On the night of the dinner he took her to Sofroni's, and was
                            surprised to find her arrayed in a red dress with a row of large black
                            leather buttons cutting diagonally across the front. She had on red
                            stockings and shoes and wore a red carnation in her hair. The bodice was
                            cut low in the neck and the sleeves were short. Eugene thought she
                            looked stunning and told her so. She laughed. They went in a cab, for
                            she had warned him beforehand that they would have to. It cost him two
                            dollars each way but he excused his extravagance on the ground of
                            necessity. It was little things like this that were beginning to make
                            him think strongly of the problem of getting on.
                        The students who had got up this dinner were from all the art classes,
                            day and night. There were over two hundred of them, all of them young,
                            and there was a mixed collection of girl art students, artist's
                            models and girl friends of various grades of thought and condition, who
                            were brought as companions. The big dining-room was tempestuous with the
                            rattling of dishes, the shouting of jests, the singing of songs and the
                            exchange of  greetings. Eugene knew a few
                            of these people outside his own classes, enough to give him the chance
                            to be sociable and not appear lonely or out of it.
                        From the outset it was apparent that she, Ruby, was generally known and
                            liked. Her costumea little boldmade her conspicuous. From various
                            directions there were cries of "Hey! Rube!" which was
                            a familiar interpretation of her first name, Ruby.
                        Eugene was surprised at thisit shocked him a little. All sorts of boys he
                            did not know came and talked to her, exchanging familiar gossip. She was
                            called away from him a dozen times in as many minutes. He saw her
                            laughing and chatting at the other end of the hall, surrounded by half a
                            dozen students. It made him jealous.
                        As the evening progressed the attitude of each toward the other and all
                            toward anyone became more and more familiar. When the courses were over,
                            a space was cleared at one end and a screen of green cloth rigged up in
                            one corner as a dressing room for stunts. Eugene saw
                            one of the students called with much applause to do an Irish monologue,
                            wearing green whiskers, which he adjusted in the presence of the crowd.
                            There was another youth who pretended to have with him an immense roll
                            of versean epic, no lesswound in so tight a manner that it looked as
                            though it might take all night to read it. The crowd groaned. With
                            amazing savoir faire he put up one hand for silence, dropped the roll,
                            holding, of course, to the outer end and began reading. It was not bad
                            verse, but the amusing part was that it was really short, not more than
                            twenty lines. The rest of the paper had been covered with scribbling to
                            deceive the crowd. It secured a round of applause. There was one
                            second-year man who sang a song"Down in the Lehigh
                            Valley"and another who gave imitations of Temple Boyle and
                            other instructors at their work of criticising and painting for the
                            benefit of the class. These were greatly enjoyed. Finally one of the
                            models, after much calling by the crowd of "Desmond!
                            Desmond!"her last namewent behind the green cloth screen and in
                            a few moments reappeared in the short skirt of a Spanish dancer, with
                            black and silver spangles, and castanets. Some friendly student had
                            brought a mandolin and "La Paloma" was danced.
                        Eugene had little of Ruby's company during all these doings. She
                            was too much sought after. As the other girl was concluding her dance he
                            heard the cry of "Hey, Rube! Why don't you do your
                            turn?" Someone else, eager to see her dance, called  "Come on, Ruby!" The
                            rest of the room, almost unthinkingly took it up. Some boys surrounding
                            her had started to push her toward the dancing space. Before Eugene knew
                            it she was up in someone's arms being passed from group to
                            group for a joke. The crowd cheered. Eugene, however, having come so
                            close to her, was irritated by this familiarity. She did not appear to
                            belong to him, but to the whole art-student body. And she was laughing.
                            When she was put down in the clear space she lifted her skirts as she
                            had done for him and danced. A crowd of students got very close. He had
                            to draw near to see her at all. And there she was, unconscious of him,
                            doing her gay clog dance. When she stopped, three or four of the more
                            daring youths urged her, seizing her by the hands and arms, to do
                            something else. Someone cleared a table and someone else picked her up
                            and put her on it. She did still other dances. Someone cried,
                            "Hey, Kenny, do you need the red dress?" So this was
                            his temporary sweetheart.
                        When she was finally ready to go home at four o'clock in the
                            morning, or when the others were agreed to let her go, she hardly
                            remembered that she had Eugene with her. She saw him waiting as two
                            students were asking for the privilege of taking her home.
                        "No," she exclaimed, seeing him, "I have my
                            escort. I'm going now. Good-bye," and came toward him.
                            He felt rather frozen and out of it.
                        "Are you ready?" she asked.
                        He nodded gloomily, reproachfully.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XII
                        
                            FROM drawing from the nude, which Eugene came to do
                            very successfully that winter, his interest switched to his work in the
                            illustration class where costume figures were used. Here, for the first
                            time, he tried his hand at wash drawings, the current medium for
                            magazine work, and was praised after a time for his execution. Not
                            always, however; for the instructors, feeling that harsh criticism would
                            make for steadier effort, pooh-poohed some of his best work. But he had
                            faith in what he was destined to do, and after sinking to depths of
                            despair he would rise to great heights of self-confidence.
                        His labor for the Peoples' Furniture Company was becoming a
                            rather dreary grind when Vincent Beers, the instructor in the
                            illustration class, looking over his shoulder one Wednesday afternoon
                            said:"You ought to be able to make a little money by your work
                            pretty soon, Witla."
                        "Do you think so?" questioned Eugene.
                        "It's pretty good. There ought to be a place on one of
                            the newspapers here for a man like youan afternoon newspaper possibly.
                            Did you ever try to get on?"
                        "I did when I first came to the city, but they didn't
                            want anyone. I'm rather glad they didn't now. I guess
                            they wouldn't have kept me very long."
                        "You draw in pen and ink pretty well, don't
                            you?"
                        "I thought I liked that best of all at first."
                        "Well, then, they ought to be able to use you. I
                            wouldn't stay very long at it though. You ought to go to New
                            York to get in the magazine illustration fieldthere's nothing
                            out here. But a little newspaper work now wouldn't hurt
                            you."
                        Eugene decided to try the afternoon papers, for he knew that if he got
                            work on one of these he could still continue his night classes. He could
                            give the long evening session to the illustration class and take an
                            occasional night off to work on the life studies. That would make an
                            admirable arrangement. For several days he took an hour after his work
                            to make inquiry, taking with him some examples of his pen and inks.
                            Several of the men he saw liked what he had to show, but he found no
                            immediate opening. There was only one paper, one of the poorest, that
                            offered him any encouragement. The editor-in-chief said he might be in
                            need of a man shortly. If Eugene would 
                            come in again in three or four weeks he could tell him. They did not pay
                            very muchtwenty-five dollars to beginners.
                        Eugene thought of this as a great opportunity, and when he went back in
                            three weeks and actually secured the place, he felt that he was now
                            fairly on the road to prosperity. He was given a desk in a small back
                            room on a fourth floor where there was accidentally west and north
                            light. He was in a department which held two other men, both several
                            years older than himself, one of whom posed as "dean"
                            of the staff.
                        The work here was peculiar in that it included not only pen and ink but
                            the chalk plate process which was a method of drawing with a steel point
                            upon a zinc plate covered with a deposit of chalk, which left a design
                            which was easily reproduced. Eugene had never done this, he had to be
                            shown by the "dean," but he soon picked it up. He
                            found it hard on his lungs, for he had constantly to keep blowing the
                            chalk away as he scratched the surface of the plate, and sometimes the
                            dust went up into his nostrils. He hoped sincerely there would not be
                            much of this work, but there was rather an undue proportion at first
                            owing to the fact that it was shouldered on to him by the other twohe
                            being the beginner. He suspected as much after a little time, but by
                            that time he was beginning to make friends with his companions and
                            things were not so bad.
                        These two, although they did not figure vastly in his life, introduced
                            him to conditions and personalities in the Chicago newspaper world which
                            broadened him and presented points of view which were helpful. The elder
                            of the two, the "dean," was dressy and art-y; his name
                            was Horace Howe. The other, Jeremiah Mathews, Jerry for short, was short
                            and fat, with a round, cheerful, smiling countenance and a wealth of
                            coarse black hair. He loved chewing tobacco, was a little mussy about
                            his clothes, but studious, generous and good natured. Eugene found that
                            he had several passions, one for good food, another for oriental curios
                            and a third for archology. He was alive to all that was going on in the
                            world, and was utterly without any prejudices, social, moral or
                            religious. He liked his Work, and whistled or talked as he did it.
                            Eugene took a secret like for him from the beginning. It was while
                            working on this paper that Eugene first learned that he really could
                            write. It came about accidentally for he had abandoned the idea that he
                            could ever do anything in newspaper work, which was the field he had
                            originally contemplated. Here there was great need for cheap Sunday
                            specials of a local character, and in reading some of these, which were
                            given to  him for illustration, he came to
                            the conclusion that he could do much better himself.
                        "Say," he asked Mathews, "who writes the
                            articles in here?" He was looking over the Sunday issue.
                        "Oh, the reporters on the staffanyone that wants to. I think
                            they buy some from outsiders. They only pay four dollars a
                            column."
                        Eugene wondered if they would pay him, but pay or no pay he wanted to do
                            them. Maybe they would let him sign his name. He saw that some were
                            signed. He suggested he believed he could do that sort of thing but
                            Howe, as a writer himself, frowned on this. He wrote and drew.
                            Howe's opposition piqued Eugene who decided to try when the
                            opportunity offered. He wanted to write about the Chicago River, which
                            he thought he could illustrate effectively. Goose Island, because of the
                            description he had read of it several years before, the simple beauties
                            of the city parks where he liked to stroll and watch the lovers on
                            Sundays. There were many things, but these stood as susceptible of
                            delicious, feeling illustration and he wanted to try his hand. He
                            suggested to the Sunday Editor, Mitchell Goldfarb, with whom he had
                            become friendly, that he thought something nice in an illustrative way
                            could be done on the Chicago River.
                        "Go ahead, try your hand," exclaimed that worthy, who
                            was a vigorous, robust, young American of about thirty-one, with a gaspy
                            laugh that sounded as if someone had thrown cold water down his back.
                            "We need all that stuff. Can you write?"
                        "I sometimes think I might if I practiced a
                            little."
                        "Why not," went on the other, who saw visions of a
                            little free copy. "Try your hand. You might make a good thing
                            of it. If your writing is anything like your drawing it will be all
                            right. We don't pay people on the staff, but you can sign your
                            name to it."
                        This was enough for Eugene. He tried his hand at once. His art work had
                            already begun to impress his companions. It was rough, daring, incisive,
                            with a touch of soul to it. Howe was already secretly envious, Mathews
                            full of admiration. Encouraged thus by Goldfarb Eugene took a Sunday
                            afternoon and followed up the branches of the Chicago River, noting its
                            wonders and peculiarities, and finally made his drawings. Afterward he
                            went to the Chicago library and looked up its historyaccidentally coming
                            across the reports of some government engineers who dwelt on the
                            oddities of its traffic. He did not write an article so much as a
                            panegyric on its beauty and littleness, finding  the former where few would have believed it to exist.
                            Goldfarb was oddly surprised when he read it. He had not thought Eugene
                            could do it.
                        The charm of Eugene's writing was that while his mind was full
                            of color and poetry he had logic and a desire for facts which gave what
                            he wrote stability. He liked to know the history of things and to
                            comment on the current phases of life. He wrote of the parks, Goose
                            Island, the Bridewell, whatever took his fancy.
                        His real passion was for art, however. It was a slightly easier medium
                            for himquicker. He thrilled to think, sometimes, that he could tell a
                            thing in words and then actually draw it. It seemed a beautiful
                            privilege and he loved the thought of making the commonplace dramatic.
                            It was all dramatic to himthe wagons in the streets, the tall buildings,
                            the street lampsanything, everything.
                        His drawing was not neglected meantime, but seemed to get stronger.
                        "I don't know what there is about your stuff, Witla,
                            that gets me," Mathews said to him one day, "but you
                            do something to it. Now why did you put those birds flying above that
                            smokestack?"
                        "Oh, I don't know," replied Eugene.
                            "It's just the way I feel about it. I've seen
                            pigeons flying like that."
                        "It's all to the good," replied Mathews.
                            "And then you handle your masses right. I don't see
                            anybody doing this sort of thing over here."
                        He meant in America, for these two art workers considered themselves
                            connoisseurs of pen and ink and illustration generally. They were
                            subscribers to Jugend, Simplicissimus, Pick-Me-Up and
                            the radical European art journals. They were aware of Steinlen and
                            Cheret and Mucha and the whole rising young school of French poster
                            workers. Eugene was surprised to hear of these men and these papers. He
                            began to gain confidence in himselfto think of himself as somebody.
                        It was while he was gaining this knowledgefinding out who was who and
                            what and why that he followed up his relationship with Angela Blue to
                            its logical conclusionhe became engaged to her. In spite of his
                            connection with Ruby Kenny, which continued unbroken after the dinner,
                            he nevertheless felt that he must have Angela; partly because she
                            offered more resistance than any girl since Stella, and partly because
                            she appeared to be so innocent, simple and good hearted. And she was
                            altogether lovely. She had a beautiful figure, which no  crudity of country dressmaking could
                            conceal. She had her wonderful wealth of hair and her large, luring,
                            water-clear blue eyes. She had colorful lips and cheeks, a natural grace
                            in walking, could dance and play the piano. Eugene looked at her and
                            came to the conclusion after a time that she was as beautiful as any
                            girl he had ever seenthat she had more soul, more emotion, more
                            sweetness. He tried to hold her hand, to kiss her, to take her in his
                            arms, but she eluded him in a careful, wary and yet half yielding way.
                            She wanted him to propose to her, not because she was anxious to trap
                            him, but because her conventional conscience told her these things were
                            not right outside a definite engagement and she wanted to be engaged
                            first. She was already in love with him. When he pleaded, she was
                            anxious to throw herself in his arms in a mad embrace, but she
                            restrained herself, waiting. At last he flung his arms about her as she
                            was sitting at the piano one evening and holding her tight pressed his
                            lips to her cheek.
                        She struggled to her feet. "You musn't," she
                            said. "It isn't right. I can't let you do
                            that."
                        "But I love you," he exclaimed, pursuing her.
                            "I want to marry you. Will you have me, Angela? Will you be
                            mine?"
                        She looked at him yearningly, for she realized that she had made him do
                            things her waythis wild, unpractical, artistic soul. She wanted to yield
                            then and there but something told her to wait.
                        "I won't tell you now," she said, "I
                            want to talk to papa and mamma. I haven't told them anything as
                            yet. I want to ask them about you, and then I'll tell you when
                            I come again."
                        "Oh, Angela," he pleaded.
                        "Now, please wait, Mr. Witla," she pleaded. She had
                            never yet called him Eugene. "I'll come again in two
                            or three weeks. I want to think it over. It's
                            better."
                        He curbed his desire and waited, but it made all the more vigorous and
                            binding the illusion that she was the one woman in the world for him.
                            She aroused more than any woman yet a sense of the necessity of
                            concealing the eagerness of his sensesof pretending something higher. He
                            even tried to deceive himself into the belief that this was a spiritual
                            relationship, but underneath all was a burning sense of her beauty, her
                            physical charm, her passion. She was sleeping as yet, bound in
                            convention and a semi-religious interpretation of life. If she were
                            aroused! He closed his eyes and dreamed.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XIII
                        
                            IN two weeks Angela came back, ready to plight her
                            faith; and Eugene was waiting, eager to receive it. He had planned to
                            meet her under the smoky train shed of the Chicago, Milwaukee and St.
                            Paul depot, to escort her to Kinsley's for dinner, to bring her
                            some flowers, to give her a ring he had secured in anticipation, a ring
                            which had cost him seventy-five dollars and consumed quite all his
                            savings; but she was too regardful of the drama of the situation to meet
                            him anywhere but in the parlor of her aunt's house, where she
                            could look as she wished. She wrote that she must come down early and
                            when he arrived at eight of a Saturday evening she was dressed in the
                            dress that seemed most romantic to her, the one she had worn when she
                            first met him at Alexandria. She half suspected that he would bring
                            flowers and so wore none, and when he came with pink roses, she added
                            those to her corsage. She was a picture of rosy youth and trimness and
                            not unlike the character by whose name he had christened herthe fair
                            Elaine of Arthur's court. Her yellow hair was done in a great
                            mass that hung sensuously about her neck; her cheeks were rosy with the
                            elation of the hour; her lips moist; her eyes bright. She fairly
                            sparkled her welcome as he entered.
                        At the sight of her Eugene was beside himself. He was always at the
                            breaking point over any romantic situation. The beauty of the ideathe
                            beauty of love as love; the delight of youth filled his mind as a song
                            might, made him tense, feverish, enthusiastic.
                        "You're here at last, Angela!" he said, trying
                            to keep hold of her hands. "What word?"
                        "Oh, you musn't ask so soon," she replied.
                            "I want to talk to you first. I'll play you
                            something."
                        "No," he said, following her as she backed toward the
                            piano. "I want to know. I must. I can't
                            wait."
                        "I haven't made up my mind," she pleaded
                            evasively. "I want to think. You had better let me
                            play."
                        "Oh, no," he urged.
                        "Yes, let me play."
                        She ignored him and swept into the composition, but all the while she was
                            conscious of him hovering over hera force. At the close, when she had
                            been made even more emotionally responsive 
                            by the suggestion of the music, he slipped his arms about her as he had
                            once before, but she struggled away again, slipping to a corner and
                            standing at bay. He liked her flushed face, her shaken hair, the roses
                            awry at her waist.
                        "You must tell me now," he said, standing before her.
                            "Will you have me?"
                        She dropped her head down as though doubting, and fearing familiarities;
                            he slipped to one knee to see her eyes. Then, looking up, he caught her
                            about the waist. "Will you?" he asked.
                        She looked at his soft hair, dark and thick, his smooth pale brow, his
                            black eyes and even chin. She wanted to yield dramatically and this was
                            dramatic enough. She put her hands to his head, bent over and looked
                            into his eyes; her hair fell forward about her face. "Will you
                            be good to me?" she asked, yearning into his eyes.
                        "Yes, yes," he declared. "You know that. Oh, I
                            love you so."
                        She put his head far back and laid her lips to his. There was fire, agony
                            in it. She held him so and then he stood up heaping kisses upon her
                            cheeks, her lips, her eyes, her neck.
                        "Good God!" he exclaimed, "how wonderful you
                            are!"
                        The expression shocked her.
                        "You mustn't," she said.
                        "I can't help it. You are so beautiful!"
                        She forgave him for the compliment.
                        There were burning moments after this, moments in which they clung to
                            each other desperately, moments in which he took her in his arms,
                            moments in which he whispered his dreams of the future. He took the ring
                            he had bought and put it on her finger. He was going to be a great
                            artist, she was going to be an artist's bride; he was going to
                            paint her lovely face, her hair, her form. If he wanted love scenes he
                            would paint these which they were now living together. They talked until
                            one in the morning and then she begged him to go, but he would not. At
                            two he left, only to come early the next morning to take her to
                            church.
                        There ensued for Eugene a rather astonishing imaginative and emotional
                            period in which he grew in perception of things literary and artistic
                            and in dreams of what marriage with Angela would mean to him. There was
                            a peculiar awareness about Eugene at this time, which was leading him
                            into an understanding of things. The extraordinary demands of some
                            phases of dogma in the matter of religion; the depths of human
                            perversity in the matter of morality; the fact that there were worlds
                            within  worlds of our social organism; that
                            really basically and actually there was no fixed and definite
                            understanding of anything by anybody. From Mathews he learned of
                            philosophiesKant, Hegel, Schopenhauerfaint inklings of what they
                            believed. From association with Howe he heard of current authors who
                            expressed new moods, Pierre Loti, Thomas Hardy, Maeterlinck, Tolstoi.
                            Eugene was no person to readhe was too eager to live,but he gained much
                            by conversation and he liked to talk. He began to think he could do
                            almost anything if he triedwrite poems, write plays, write stories,
                            paint, illustrate, etc. He used to conceive of himself as a general, an
                            orator, a politicianthinking how wonderful he would be if he could set
                            himself definitely to any one thing. Sometimes he would recite passages
                            from great speeches he had composed in his imagination as he walked. The
                            saving grace in his whole make-up was that he really loved to work and
                            he would work at the things he could do. He would not shirk his
                            assignments or dodge his duties.
                        After his evening class Eugene would sometimes go out to Ruby's
                            house, getting there by eleven and being admitted by an arrangement with
                            her that the front door be left open so that he could enter quietly.
                            More than once he found her sleeping in her little room off the front
                            room, arrayed in a red silk dressing gown and curled up like a little
                            black-haired child. She knew he liked her art instincts and she strove
                            to gratify them, affecting the peculiar and the exceptional. She would
                            place a candle under a red shade on a small table by her bed and pretend
                            to have been reading, the book being usually tossed to one side on the
                            coverlet where he would see it lying when he came. He would enter
                            silently, gathering her up in his arms as she dozed, kissing her lips to
                            waken her, carrying her in his arms into the front room to caress her
                            and whisper his passion. There was no cessation of this devotion to Ruby
                            the while he was declaring his love for Angela, and he really did not
                            see that the two interfered greatly. He loved Angela, he thought. He
                            liked Ruby, thought she was sweet. He felt sorry for her at times
                            because she was such a little thing, so unthinking. Who was going to
                            marry her eventually? What was going to become of her?
                        Because of this very attitude he fascinated the girl who was soon ready
                            to do anything for him. She dreamed dreams of how nice it would be if
                            they could live in just a little flat togetherall alone. She would give
                            up her art posing and just keep house for him. He talked to her of
                            thisimagining it might possibly come to passrealizing quite fully that
                            it probably wouldn't. He wanted Angela for his wife, but if he
                            had money he thought  Ruby and he might
                            keep a separate placesomehow. What Angela would think of this did not
                            trouble himonly that she should not know. He never breathed anything to
                            either of the other, but there were times when he wondered what they
                            would think each of the other if they knew. Money, money, that was the
                            great deterrent. For lack of money he could not marry anybody at
                            presentneither Angela nor Ruby nor anyone else. His first duty, he
                            thought, was so to place himself financially that he could talk
                            seriously to any girl. That was what Angela expected of him, he knew.
                            That was what he would have to have if he wanted Ruby.
                        There came a time when the situation began to grow irksome. He had
                            reached the point where he began to understand how limited his life was.
                            Ma thews and Howe, who drew more money, were able to live better than
                            he. They went out to midnight suppers, theatre parties, and expeditions
                            to the tenderloin section (not yet known by that name). They had time to
                            browse about the sections of the city which had peculiar charms for them
                            as Bohemians after darkthe levee, as a certain section of the Chicago
                            River was called; Gambler's Row in South Clark Street; the
                            Whitechapel Club, as a certain organization of newspaper men was called,
                            and other places frequented by the literati and the more talented of the
                            newspaper makers. Eugene, first because of a temperament which was
                            introspective and reflective, and second because of his sthetic taste,
                            which was offended by much that he thought was tawdry and cheap about
                            these places, and third by what he considered his lack of means, took
                            practically no part in these diversions. While he worked in his class he
                            heard of these thingsusually the next dayand they were amplified and
                            made more showy and interesting by the narrative powers of the
                            participants. Eugene hated coarse, vulgar women and ribald conduct, but
                            he felt that he was not even permitted to see them at close range had he
                            wanted to. It took money to carouse and he did not have it.
                        Perhaps, because of his youth and a certain air of unsophistication and
                            impracticability which went with him, his employers were not inclined to
                            consider money matters in connection with him. They seemed to think he
                            would work for little and would not mind. He was allowed to drift here
                            six months without a sign of increase, though he really deserved more
                            than any one of those who worked with him during the same period. He was
                            not the one to push his claims personally but he grew restless and
                            slightly embittered under the strain and ached to be free, though his
                            work was as effective as ever.
                        
                        It was this indifference on their part which fixed his determination to
                            leave Chicago, although Angela, his art career, his natural restlessness
                            and growing judgment of what he might possibly become were deeper
                            incentives. Angela haunted him as a dream of future peace. If he could
                            marry her and settle down he would be happy. He felt now, having fairly
                            satiated himself in the direction of Ruby, that he might leave her. She
                            really would not care so very much. Her sentiments were not deep enough.
                            Still, he knew she would care, and when he began going less regularly to
                            her home, really becoming indifferent to what she did in the
                            artists' world, he began also to feel ashamed of himself, for
                            he knew that it was a cruel thing to do. He saw by her manner when he
                            absented himself that she was hurt and that she knew he was growing
                            cold.
                        "Are you coming out Sunday night?" she asked him once,
                            wistfully.
                        "I can't," he apologized; "I have to
                            work."
                        "Yes, I know how you have to work. But go on. I don't
                            mind, I know."
                        "Oh, Ruby, how you talk. I can't always be
                            here."
                        "I know what it is, Eugene," she replied. "You
                            don't care any more. Oh, well, don't mind
                            me."
                        "Now, sweet, don't talk like that," he would
                            say, but after he was gone she would stand by her window and look out
                            upon the shabby neighborhood and sigh sadly. He was more to her than
                            anyone she had met yet, but she was not the kind that cried.
                        "He is going to leave me," was her one thought.
                            "He is going to leave me."
                        Goldfarb had watched Eugene a long time, was interested in him, realised
                            that he had talent. He was leaving shortly to take a better
                            Sunday-Editorship himself on a larger paper, and he thought Eugene was
                            wasting his time and ought to be told so.
                        "I think you ought to try to get on one of the bigger papers
                            here, Witla," he said to him one Saturday afternoon when things
                            were closing up. "You'll never amount to anything on
                            this paper. It isn't big enough. You ought to get on one of the
                            big ones. Why don't you try the Tribuneor
                            else go to New York? I think you ought to do magazine
                            work."
                        Eugene drank it all in. "I've been thinking of
                            that," he said. "I think I'll go to New York.
                            I'll be better off there."
                        "I would either do one or the other. If you stay too long in a
                            place like this it's apt to do you harm."
                        
                        Eugene went back to his desk with the thought of change ringing in his
                            ears. He would go. He would save up his money until he had one hundred
                            and fifty or two hundred dollars and then try his luck in the East. He
                            would leave Ruby and Angela, the latter only temporarily, the former for
                            good very likely, though he only vaguely contessed this to himself. He
                            would make some money and then he would come back and marry his dream
                            from Blackwood. Already his imaginative mind ran forward to a poetic
                            wedding in a little country church, with Angela standing beside him in
                            white. Then he would bring her back with him to New Yorkhe, Eugene
                            Witla, already famous in the East. Already the lure of the big eastern
                            city was in his mind, its palaces, its wealth, its fame. It was the
                            great world he knew, this side of Paris and London. He would go to it
                            now, shortly. What would he be there? How great? How soon?
                        So he dreamed.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XIV
                        
                            ONCE this idea of New York was fixed in his mind as a
                            necessary step in his career, it was no trouble for him to carry it out.
                            He had already put aside sixty dollars in a savings bank since he had
                            given Angela the ring and he decided to treble it as quickly as possible
                            and then start. He fancied that all he needed was just enough to live on
                            for a little while until he could get a start. If he could not sell
                            drawings to the magazines he might get a place on a newspaper and anyhow
                            he felt confident that he could live. He communicated to Howe and
                            Mathews his intention of going East pretty soon and aroused in their
                            respective bosoms the emotions which were characteristic of each. Howe,
                            envious from the start, was glad to have him off the paper, but
                            regretful of the stellar career which his determination foreboded. He
                            halt suspected now that Eugene would do something exceptionalhe was so
                            loose in his moodsso eccentric. Mathews was glad for Eugene and a little
                            sorry for himself. He wished he had Eugene's courage, his fire,
                            his talent.
                        "You'll make good when you get down there,"
                            Mathews said to him one afternoon when Howe was out of the room, for he
                            realized that the latter was jealous. "You've got the
                            stuff. Some of the work you have done here will give you a fine
                            introduction. I wish I were going."
                        "Why don't you?" suggested Eugene.
                        "Who? me? What good would it do me? I'm not ready yet.
                            I can't do that sort of stuff. I might go down some
                            time."
                        "I think you do good work," said Eugene generously. He
                            really did not believe it was good art, but it was fair newspaper
                            sketching.
                        "Oh, no, you don't mean that, Witla," replied
                            Mathews. "I know what I can do."
                        Eugene was silent.
                        "I wish when you get down there," went on Mathews,
                            "you would write us occasionally. I would like to know how you
                            are getting along."
                        "Sure, I'll write," replied Eugene, flattered
                            by the interest his determination had aroused. "Sure I
                            will." But he never did.
                        In Ruby and Angela he had two problems to adjust which were not so easy.
                            In the one case it was sympathy, regret, sorrow  for her helplessness, her hopelessness. She was so sweet
                            and lovely in her way, but not quite big enough mentally or emotionally
                            for him. Could he really live with her if he wanted to? Could he
                            substitute her for a girl like Angela? Could he? And now he had involved
                            Angela, for since her return to tell him that she accepted him as her
                            affianced lover, there had been some scenes between them in which a new
                            standard of emotion had been set for him. This girl who looked so simple
                            and innocent was burning at times with a wild fire. It snapped in her
                            eyes when Eugene undid her wonderful hair and ran his hands through its
                            heavy strands. "The Rhine Maiden," he would say,
                            "Little Lorelei! You are like the mermaid waiting to catch the
                            young lover in the strands of her hair. You are Marguerite and I Faust.
                            You are a Dutch Gretchen. I love this wonderful hair when it is braided.
                            Oh, sweet, you perfect creature! I will put you in a painting yet. I
                            will make you famous."
                        Angela thrilled to this. She burned in a flame which was of his fanning.
                            She put her lips to his in long hot kisses, sat on his knee and twined
                            her hair about his neck; rubbed his face with it as one might bathe a
                            face in strands of silk. Finding such a response he went wild, kissed
                            her madly, would have been still more masterful had she not, at the
                            slightest indication of his audacity, leaped from his embrace, not
                            opposition but self protection in her eyes. She pretended to think
                            better of his love, and Eugene, checked by her ideal of him, tried to
                            restrain himself. He did manage to desist because he was sure that he
                            could not do what he wanted to. Daring such as that would end her love.
                            So they wrestled in affection.
                        It was the fall following his betrothal to Angela that he actually took
                            his departure. He had drifted through the summer, pondering. He had
                            stayed away from Ruby more and more, and finally left without saying
                            good-bye to her, though he thought up to the last that he intended to go
                            out and see her.
                        As for Angela, when it came to parting from her, he was in a depressed
                            and downcast mood. He thought now that he did not really want to go to
                            New York, but was being drawn by fate. There was no money for him in the
                            West; they could not live on what he could earn there. Hence he must go
                            and in doing so must lose her. It looked very tragic.
                        Out at her aunt's house, where she came for the Saturday and
                            Sunday preceding his departure, he walked the floor with her gloomily,
                            counted the lapse of the hours after which he would be with her no more,
                            pictured the day when he would return successful to fetch her. Angela
                            had a faint foreboding fear of  the events
                            which might intervene. She had read stories of artists who had gone to
                            the city and had never come back. Eugene seemed such a wonderful person,
                            she might not hold him; and yet he had given her his word and he was
                            madly in love with herno doubt of that. That fixed, passionate, yearning
                            look in his eyeswhat did it mean if not enduring, eternal love? Life had
                            brought her a great treasurea great love and an artist for a lover.
                        "Go, Eugene!" she cried at last tragically, almost
                            melodramatically. His face was in her hands. "I will wait for
                            you. You need never have one uneasy thought. When you are ready I will
                            be here, only, come soonyou will, won't you?"
                        "Will I!" he declared, kissing her, "will I?
                            Look at me. Don't you know?"
                        "Yes! Yes! Yes!" she exclaimed, "of course I
                            know. Oh, yes! yes!"
                        The rest was a passionate embrace. And then they parted. He went out
                            brooding over the subtlety and the tragedy of life. The sharp October
                            stars saddened him more. It was a wonderful world but bitter to endure
                            at times. Still it could be endured and there was happiness and peace in
                            store for him probably. He and Angela would find it together living in
                            each other's company, living in each other's embrace
                            and by each other's kisses. It must be so. The whole world
                            believed iteven he, after Stella and Margaret and Ruby and Angela. Even
                            he.
                        The train which bore him to New York bore a very meditative young man. As
                            it pulled out through the great railroad yards of the city, past the
                            shabby back yards of the houses, the street crossings at grade, the
                            great factories and elevators, he thought of that other time when he had
                            first ventured in the city. How different! Then he was so green, so raw.
                            Since then he had become a newspaper artist, he could write, he could
                            find his tongue with women, he knew a little something about the
                            organization of the world. He had not saved any money, true, but he had
                            gone through the art school, had given Angela a diamond ring, had this
                            two hundred dollars with which he was venturing to reconnoitre the great
                            social metropolis of the country. He was passing Fifty-seventh Street;
                            he recognized the neighborhood he traversed so often in visiting Ruby.
                            He had not said good-bye to her and there in the distance were the rows
                            of commonplace, two family frame dwellings, one of which she occupied
                            with her foster parents. Poor little Ruby! and she liked him. It was a
                            shame, but what was he to do about it? He didn't care for her.
                            It really hurt him to think and then he tried not  to remember. These tragedies of the world could not be
                            healed by thinking.
                        The train passed out into the flat fields of northern Indiana and as
                            little country towns flashed past he thought of Alexandria and how he
                            had pulled up his stakes and left it. What was Jonas Lyle doing and John
                            Summers? Myrtle wrote that she was going to be married in the spring.
                            She had delayed solely because she wanted to delay. He thought sometimes
                            that Myrtle was a little like himself, fickle in her moods. He was sure
                            he would never want to go back to Alexandria except for a short visit,
                            and yet the thought of his father and his mother and his old home were
                            sweet to him. His father! How little he knew of the real world!
                        As they passed out of Pittsburgh he saw for the first time the great
                            mountains, raising their heads in solemn majesty in the dark, and great
                            lines of coke ovens, flaming red tongues of fire. He saw men working,
                            and sleeping towns succeeding one another. What a great country America
                            was! What a great thing to be an artist here! Millions of people and no
                            vast artistic voice to portray these thingsthese simple dramatic things
                            like the coke ovens in the night. If he could only do it! If he could
                            only stir the whole country, so that his name would be like that of Dore
                            in France or Verestchagin in Russia. If he could but get fire into his
                            work, the fire he felt!
                        He got into his berth after a time and looked out on the dark night and
                            the stars, longing, and then he dozed. When he awoke again the train had
                            already passed Philadelphia. It was morning and the cars were speeding
                            across the flat meadows toward Trenton. He arose and dressed, watching
                            the array of towns the while, Trenton, New Brunswick, Metuchen,
                            Elizabeth. Somehow this country was like Illinois, flat. After Newark
                            they rushed out upon a great meadow and he caught the sense of the sea.
                            It was beyond this. These were tide-water streams, the Passaic and the
                            Hackensack, with small ships and coal and brick barges tied at the water
                            side. The thrill of something big overtook him as the brakeman began to
                            call "Jersey City," and as he stepped out into the
                            vast train shed his heart misgave him a little. He was all alone in New
                            York. It was wealthy, cold and critical. How should he prosper here? He
                            walked out through the gates to where low arches concealed ferry boats,
                            and in another moment it was before him, sky line, bay, the Hudson, the
                            Statue of Liberty, ferry boats, steamers, liners, all in a grey mist of
                            fierce rain and the tugs and liners blowing mournfully upon great
                            whistles. It was something he could, 
                            never have imagined without seeing it, and this swish of real salt
                            water, rolling in heavy waves, spoke to him as music might, exalting his
                            soul. What a wonderful thing this was, this seawhere ships were and
                            whales and great mysteries. What a wonderful thing New York was, set
                            down by it, surrounded by it, this metropolis of the country. Here was
                            the sea; yonder were the great docks that held the vessels that sailed
                            to the ports of all the world. He saw themgreat grey and black hulls,
                            tied to long piers jutting out into the water. He listened to the
                            whistles, the swish of the water, saw the circling gulls, realized
                            emotionally the mass of people. Here were Jay Gould and Russell Sage and
                            the Vanderbilts and Morganall alive and all here. Wall Street, Fifth
                            Avenue, Madison Square, Broadwayhe knew of these by reputation. How
                            would he do herehow fare? Would the city ever acclaim him as it did
                            some? He looked wide eyed, with an open heart, with intense and immense
                            appreciation. Well, he was going to enter, going to try. He could do
                            thatperhaps, perhaps. But he felt lonely. He wished he were back with
                            Angela where her soft arms could shut him safe. He wished he might feel
                            her hands on his cheeks, his hair. He would not need to fight alone
                            then. But now he was alone, and the city was roaring about him, a great
                            noise like the sea. He must enter and do battle.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XV
                        
                            NOT knowing routes or directions in New York, Eugene
                            took a Desbrosses Street ferry, and coming into West Street wandered
                            along that curious thoroughfare staring at the dock entrances. Manhattan
                            Island seemed a little shabby to him from this angle but he thought that
                            although physically, perhaps, it might not be distinguished, there must
                            be other things which made it wonderful. Later when he saw the solidity
                            of it, the massed houses, the persistent streams of people, the crush of
                            traffic, it dawned on him that mere humanity in packed numbers makes a
                            kind of greatness, and this was the island's first
                            characteristic. There were others, like the prevailing lowness of the
                            buildings in its old neighborhoods, the narrowness of the streets in
                            certain areas, the shabbiness of brick and stone when they have seen an
                            hundred years of weather, which struck him as curious or depressing. He
                            was easily touched by exterior conditions.
                        As he wandered he kept looking for some place where he might like to
                            live, some house that had a yard or a tree. At length he found a row of
                            houses in lower Seventh Avenue with an array of iron balconies in front
                            which appealed to him. He applied here and in one house found a room for
                            four dollars which he thought he had better take for the present. It was
                            cheaper than any hotel. His hostess was a shabby woman in black who made
                            scarcely any impression on him as a personality, merely giving him a
                            thought as to what a dreary thing it was to keep roomers and the room
                            itself was nothing, a commonplace, but he had a new world before him and
                            all his interests were outside. He wanted to see this city. He deposited
                            his grip and sent for his trunk and then took to the streets, having
                            come to see and hear things which would be of advantage to him.
                        He went about this early relationship to the city in the right spirit.
                            For a little while he did not try to think what he would do, but struck
                            out and walked, here, there and everywhere, this very first day down
                            Broadway to the City Hall and up Broadway from 14th to 42nd street the
                            same night. Soon he knew all Third Avenue and the Bowery, the wonders of
                            Fifth Avenue and Riverside Drive, the beauties of the East River, the
                            Battery, Central Park and the lower East Side. He sought out quickly the
                            wonders of metropolitan lifeits crowds at dinner and  theatre time in Broadway, its tremendous
                            throngs morning and afternoon in the shopping district, its amazing
                            world of carriages in Fifth Avenue and Central Park. He had marveled at
                            wealth and luxury in Chicago, but here it took his breath away. It was
                            obviously so much more fixed, so definite and comprehensible. Here one
                            felt intuitively the far reaches which separate the ordinary man from
                            the scion of wealth. It curled him up like a frozen leaf, dulled his
                            very soul, and gave him a clear sense of his position in the social
                            scale. He had come here with a pretty high estimate of himself, but
                            daily, as he looked, he felt himself crumbling. What was he? What was
                            art? What did the city care? It was much more interested in other
                            things, in dressing, eating, visiting, riding abroad. The lower part of
                            the island was filled with cold commercialism which frightened him. In
                            the upper half, which concerned only women and showa voluptuous
                            sybaritismcaused him envy. He had but two hundred dollars with which to
                            fight his way, and this was the world he must conquer.
                        Men of Eugene's temperament are easily depressed. He first
                            gorged the spectacle of life and then suffered from mental indigestion.
                            He saw too much of it too quickly. He wandered about for weeks, looking
                            in the shop windows, the libraries, the museums, the great streets,
                            growing all the while more despondent. At night he would return to his
                            bare room and indite long epistles to Angela, describing what he had
                            seen and telling her of his undying love for herlargely because he had
                            no other means of ridding himself of his superabundant vitality and
                            moods. They were beautiful letters, full of color and feeling, but to
                            Angela they gave a false impression of emotion and sincerity because
                            they appeared to be provoked by absence* from her. In part of course
                            they were, but far more largely they were the result of loneliness and
                            the desire for expression which this vast spectacle of life itself
                            incited. He also sent her some tentative sketches of things he had seena
                            large crowd in the dark at 34th Street; a boat off 86th Street in the
                            East River in the driving rain; a barge with cars being towed by a tug.
                            He could not think exactly what to do with these things at that time,
                            but he wanted to try his hand at illustrating for the magazines. He was
                            a little afraid of these great publications, however, for now that he
                            was on the ground with them his art did not appear so significant.
                        It was during the first few weeks that he received his only letter from
                            Ruby. His parting letter to her, written when he reached New York, had
                            been one of those makeshift affairs which 
                            faded passion indites. He was so sorry he had to leave without seeing
                            her. He had intended to come out but the rush of preparation at the last
                            moment, and so forth; he hoped to come back to Chicago one of these days
                            and he would look her up. He still loved her, but it was necessary for
                            him to leaveto come where the greatest possibilities were. "I
                            remember how sweet you where when I first saw you," he added.
                            "I shall never forget my first impressions, little
                            Ruby."
                        It was cruel to add this touch of remembrance, but the artist in him
                            could not refrain. It cut Ruby as a double edged sword, for she
                            understood that he cared well enough that wayaesthetically. It was not
                            her but beauty that he loved, and her particular beauty had lost its
                            appeal.
                        She wrote after a time, intending to be defiant, indifferent, but she
                            really could not be. She tried to think of something sharp to say, but
                            finally put down the simple truth. 
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            "Dear Eugene:"
                                        
                                        she wrote, "I got your note several weeks ago,
                                            but I could not bring myself to answer it before this. I
                                            know everything is over between us and that is all
                                            right, for I suppose it has to be. You couldn't
                                            love any woman long, I think. I know what you say about
                                            your having to go to New York to broaden your field is
                                            true. You ought to, but I'm sorry you
                                            didn't come out. You might have. Still I
                                            don't blame you, Eugene. It isn't much
                                            different from what has been going on for some time. I
                                            have cared but I'll get over that, I know, and
                                            I won't ever think hard of you. Won't
                                            you return me the notes I have sent you from time to
                                            time and my pictures? You won't want them
                                            now.
                                        
                                            "RUBY."
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        There was a little blank space on the paper and then:-
                        "I stood by the window last night and looked out on the street.
                            The moon was shining and those dead trees were waving in the wind. I saw
                            the moon on that pool of water over in the field. It looked like silver.
                            Oh, Eugene, I wish I were dead."
                        He jumped up as he read these words and clenched the letter in his hands.
                            The pathos of it all cut him to the quick, raised his estimate of her,
                            made him feel as if he had made a mistake in leaving her. He really
                            cared for her after all. She was sweet. If she were here now he could
                            live with her. She might as well be a model in New York as in Chicago.
                            He was on the verge of writing this, when one of the long, almost daily
                            epistles Angela was sending arrived and changed his mood. He did not see
                            how, in the face of so great and clean a love as hers, he could go on
                            with Ruby. His affection had obviously been dying. Should he try to
                            revive it now?
                        
                        This conflict of emotions was so characteristic of Eugene's
                            nature, that had he been soundly introspective, he would have seen that
                            he was an idealist by temperament, in love with the aesthetic, in love
                            with love, and that there was no permanent faith in him for
                            anybodyexcept the impossible she.
                        As it was, he wrote Ruby a letter breathing regret and sorrow but not
                            inviting her to come. He could not have supported her long if she had,
                            he thought. Besides he was anxious to secure Angela. So that affair
                            lapsed.
                        In the meantime he visited the magazine offices. On leaving Chicago he
                            had put in the bottom of his trunk a number of drawings which he had
                            done for the Globehis sketches of the Chicago River,
                            of Blue Island Avenue, of which he had once made a study as a street, of
                            Goose Island and of the Lake front. There were some street scenes, too,
                            all forceful in the peculiar massing of their blacks, the unexpected,
                            almost flashing, use of a streak of white at times. There was emotion in
                            them, a sense of life. He should have been appreciated at once, but,
                            oddly, there was just enough of the radically strange about what he did
                            to make his work seem crude, almost coarse. He drew a man's
                            coat with a single dash of his pen. He indicated a face by a spot. If
                            you looked close there was seldom any detail, frequently none at all.
                            From the praise he had received at the art school and from Mathews and
                            Goldfarb he was slowly coming to the conclusion that he had a way of his
                            own. Being so individual he was inclined to stick to it. He walked with
                            an air of conviction which had nothing but his own belief in himself to
                            back it up, and it was not an air which drew anybody to him. When he
                            showed his pictures at the Century, Harper's,
                                Scribner's, they were received with an air of weary
                            consideration. Dozens of magnificent drawings were displayed on their
                            walls signed by men whom Eugene now knew to be leaders in the
                            illustration world. He returned to his room convinced that he had made
                            no impression at all. They must be familiar with artists a hundred times
                            better than himself.
                        As a matter of fact Eugene was simply overawed by the material face of
                            things. These men whose pictures he saw displayed on the walls of the
                            art and editorial rooms of the magazines were really not, in many
                            instances, any better than himself, if as good. They had the advantage
                            of solid wood frames and artistic acceptance. He was a long way as yet
                            from magazine distinction but the work he did later had no more of the
                            fire than had this early stuff. It was a little broader in treatment, a
                            little less intolerant of detail, but no more vigorous if as much so.
                            The  various art directors were weary of
                            smart young artists showing drawings. A little suffering was good for
                            them in the beginning. So Eugene was incontinently turned away with a
                            little faint praise which was worse than opposition. He sank very low in
                            spirits.
                        There were still the smaller magazines and the newspapers, however, and
                            he hunted about faithfully, trying to get something to do. From one or
                            two of the smaller magazines, he secured commissions, after a time,
                            three or four drawings for thirty-five dollars; and from that had to be
                            extracted models' fees. He had to have a room where he could
                            work as an artist, receiving models to pose, and he finally found one in
                            West 14th Street, a back bedroom, looking out over an open court and
                            with a public stair which let all come who might without question. This
                            cost him twenty-five dollars a month, but he thought he had better risk
                            it. If he could get a few commissions he could live.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XVI
                        
                            THE art world of New York is peculiar. It was then and
                            for some time after, broken up into cliques with scarcely any unity.
                            There was a world of sculptors, for instance, in which some thirty or
                            forty sculptors had partbut they knew each other slightly, criticised
                            each other severely and retired for the most part into a background of
                            relatives and friends. There was a painting world, as distinguished from
                            an illustrating world, in which perhaps a thousand alleged artists,
                            perhaps more, took part. Most of these were men and women who had some
                            abilityenough to have their pictures hung at the National Academy of
                            Design exhibitionto sell some pictures, get some decorative work to do,
                            paint some portraits. There were studio buildings scattered about
                            various portions of the city; in Washington Square; in Ninth and Tenth
                            Streets; in odd places, such as Macdougal Alley and occasional cross
                            streets from Washington Square to Fifty-ninth Street, which were filled
                            with painters, illustrators, sculptors and craftsmen in art generally.
                            This painting world had more unity than the world of sculptors and, in a
                            way, included the latter. There were several art clubsthe Salmagundi,
                            the Kit-Kat and the Lotusand there were a number of exhibitions, ink,
                            water color, oil, with their reception nights where artists could meet
                            and exchange the courtesies and friendship of their world. In addition
                            to this there were little communal groups such as those who resided in
                            the Tenth Street studios; the Twenty-third Street Y. M. C. A.; the Van
                            Dyck studios, and so on. It was possible to find little crowds, now and
                            then, that harmonized well enough for a time and to get into a group,
                            if, to use a colloquialism, one belonged. If you did
                            not, art life in New York might be a very dreary thing and one might go
                            a long time without finding just the particular crowd with which to
                            associate.
                        Beside the painting world there was the illustrating world, made up of
                            beginners and those who had established themselves firmly in editorial
                            favor. These were not necessarily a part of the painting or sculpture
                            worlds and yet, in spirit, were allied to them, had their clubs also,
                            and their studios were in the various neighborhoods where the painters
                            and sculptors were. The only difference was that in the case of the
                            embryo illustrators they were to be found living three or four in one
                            studio, partly  because of the saving in
                            expense, but also because of the love of companionship and because they
                            could hearten and correct one another in their work. A number of such
                            interesting groups were in existence when Eugene arrived, but of course
                            he did not know of them.
                        It takes time for the beginner to get a hearing anywhere. We all have to
                            serve an apprenticeship, whatever field we enter. Eugene had talent and
                            determination, but no experience, no savoir faire, no circle of friends
                            and acquaintances. The whole city was strange and cold, and if he had
                            not immediately fallen desperately in love with it as a spectacle he
                            would have been unconscionably lonely and unhappy. As it was the great
                            fresh squares, such as Washington, Union and Madison; the great streets,
                            such as Broadway, Fifth Avenue and Sixth Avenue; the great spectacles,
                            such as the Bowery at night, the East River, the water front, the
                            Battery, all fascinated him with an unchanging glamor.
                        He was hypnotized by the wonder of this thingthe beauty of it. Such
                            seething masses of people! such whirlpools of life! The great hotels,
                            the opera, the theatres, the restaurants, all gripped him with a sense
                            of beauty. These lovely women in magnificent gowns; these swarms of
                            cabs, with golden eyes, like monstrous insects; this ebb and surge of
                            life at morning and evening, made him forget his loneliness. He had no
                            money to spend, no immediate hope of a successful career, he could walk
                            these streets, look in these windows, admire these beautiful women;
                            thrill at the daily newspaper announcements of almost hourly successes
                            in one field or another. Here and there in the news an author had made a
                            great success with a book; a scientist with a discovery; a philosopher
                            with a new theory; a financier with an investment. There was news of
                            great plays being put on; great actors and actresses coming from abroad;
                            great successes being made by debutantes in society; great movements
                            forwarded generally. Youth and ambition had the callhe saw that. It was
                            only a question of time, if you had talent, when you would get your
                            hearing. He longed ardently for his but he had no feeling that it was
                            coming to him quickly, so he got the blues, It was a long road to
                            travel.
                        One of his pet diversions these days and nights was to walk the streets
                            in rain or fog or snow. The city appealed to him, wet or white,
                            particularly the public squares. He saw Fifth Avenue once in a driving
                            snowstorm and under sputtering are lights, and he hurried to his easel
                            next morning to see if he could not put it down in black and white. It
                            was unsuccessful, or at least  he felt so,
                            for after an hour of trying he threw it aside in disgust. But these
                            spectacles were drawing him. He was wanting to do themwanting to see
                            them shown somewhere in color. Possible success was a solace at a time
                            when all he could pay for a meal was fifteen cents and he had no place
                            to go and not a soul with whom to talk.
                        It was an interesting phase of Eugene's character that he had a
                            passion for financial independence. He might have written home from
                            Chicago at times when he was hard pressed; he might have borrowed some
                            money from his father now, but preferred to earn itto appear to be
                            further along than he was If anyone had asked him he would have said he
                            was doing fine. Practically he so wrote to Angela, giving as an excuse
                            for further delay that he wanted to wait until he had ample means. He
                            was trying all this time to make his two hundred dollars go as far as
                            possible and to add to it by any little commissions he could get,
                            however small. He figured his expenses down to ten dollars a week and
                            managed to stay within that sum.
                        The particular building in which he had settled was really not a studio
                            building but an old, run-down boarding and apartment house turned
                            partially to uses of trade. The top floor contained three fair sized
                            rooms and two hall bedrooms, all occupied by lonely individuals plying
                            some craft or other. Eugene's next door neighbor chanced to be
                            a hack illustrator, who had had his training in Boston and had set up
                            his easel here in the hope of making a living. There were not many
                            exchanges of courtesies between them at first, although, the door being
                            open the second day he arrived, he saw that an artist worked there, for
                            the easel was visible.
                        No models applying at first he decided to appeal to the Art
                            Students' League. He called on the Secretary and was given the
                            names of four, who replied to postal cards from him. One he selected, a
                            young Swedish American girl who looked somewhat like the character in
                            the story he had in mind. She was neat and attractive, with dark hair, a
                            straight nose and pointed chin, and Eugene immediately conceived a
                            liking for her. He was ashamed of his surroundings, however, and
                            consequently diffident. This particular model was properly distant, and
                            he finished his pictures with as much expedition and as little expense
                            as he possible could.
                        Eugene was not given to scraping odd acquaintances, though he made
                            friends fast enough when the balance of intellect was right. In Chicago
                            he had become friendly with several young artists as a result of working
                            with them at the Institute, but here  he
                            knew no one, having come without introductions. He did become acquainted
                            with his neighbor, Philip Shotmeyer. He wanted to find out about local
                            art life from him, but Shotmeyer was not brilliant, and could not supply
                            him with more than minor details of what Eugene desired to know. Through
                            him he learnt a little of studio regions, art personalities; the fact
                            that young beginners worked in groups. Shotmeyer had been in such a
                            group the year before, though why he was alone now he did not say. He
                            sold drawings to some of the minor magazines, better magazines than
                            Eugene had yet had dealings with. One thing he did at once for Eugene
                            which was very helpful: he admired his work. He saw, as had others
                            before him, something of his peculiar distinction as an artist, attended
                            every show and one day he gave him a suggestion which was the beginning
                            of Eugene's successful magazine career. Eugene was working on
                            one of his street scenesa task which he invariably essayed when he had
                            nothing else to do. Shotmeyer had drifted in and was following the
                            strokes of his brush as he attempted to portray a mass of East Side
                            working girls flooding the streets after six o'clock. There
                            were dark walls of buildings, a flaring gas lamp or two, some yellow
                            lighted shop windows, and many shaded, half seen facesbare suggestions
                            of souls and pulsing life.
                        "Say," said Shotmeyer at one point, "that kind
                            o' looks like the real thing to me. I've seen a crowd
                            like that."
                        "Have you?" replied Eugene.
                        "You ought to be able to get some magazine to use that as a
                            frontispiece. Why don't you try Truth with
                            that?"
                        "Truth" was a weekly which Eugene, along with many
                            others in the West, had admired greatly because it ran a double page
                            color insert every week and occasionally used scenes of this character.
                            Somehow he always needed a shove of this kind to make him act when he
                            was drifting. He put more enthusiasm into his work because of
                            Shotmeyer's remark, and when it was done decided to carry it to
                            the office of Truth, The Art Director approved it on sight, though he
                            said nothing, but carried it in to the Editor.
                        "Here's a thing that I consider a find in its
                            way."
                        He set it proudly upon the editorial desk.
                        "Say," said the Editor, laying down a manuscript,
                            "that's the real thing, isn't it? Who did
                            that?"
                        "A young fellow by the name of Witla, who has just blown in
                            here. He looks like the real thing to me."
                        "Say," went on the Editor, "look at the
                            suggestion of faces  back there! What?
                            Reminds me just a little of the masses in Dor stuffIt's good,
                            isn't it?"
                        "It's fine," echoed the Art Director.
                            "I think he's a comer, if nothing happens to him. We
                            ought to get a few centre pages out of him."
                        "How much does he want for this?"
                        "Oh, he doesn't know. He'll take almost
                            anything. I'll give him seventy-five dollars."
                        "That's all right," said the Editor as the Art
                            Director took the drawing down. "There's something new
                            there. You ought to hang on to him."
                        "I will," replied his associate.
                            "He's young yet. He doesn't want to be
                            encouraged too much."
                        He went out, pulling a solemn countenance.
                        "I like this fairly well," he said. "We may be
                            able to find room for it. I'll send you a check shortly if
                            you'll let me have your address."
                        Eugene gave it. His heart was beating a gay tattoo in his chest. He did
                            not think anything of price, in fact it did not occur to him. All that
                            was in his mind was the picture as a double page spread. So he had
                            really sold one after all and to Truth! Now he could
                            honestly say he had made some progress. Now he could write Angela and
                            tell her. He could send her copies when it came out. He could really
                            have something to point to after this and best of all, now he knew he
                            could do street scenes.
                        He went out into the street treading not the grey stone pavement but air.
                            He threw back his head and breathed deep. He thought of other scenes
                            like this which he could do. His dreams were beginning to be realizedhe,
                            Eugene Witla, the painter of a double page spread in Truth! Already he was doing a whole series in his imagination,
                            all he had ever dreamed of. He wanted to run and tell Shotmeyerto buy
                            him a good meal. He almost loved him, commonplace hack that he
                            wasbecause he had suggested to him the right thing to do.
                        "Say, Shotmeyer," he said, sticking his head in that
                            worthy's door, "you and I eat tonight. Truth took that drawing."
                        "Isn't that fine," said his floor-mate,
                            without a trace of envy. "Well, I'm glad. I thought
                            they'd like it."
                        Eugene could have cried. Poor Shotmeyer! He wasn't a good
                            artist, but he had a good heart. He would never forget him.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XVII
                        
                            THIS one significant sale with its subsequent check of
                            seventy-five dollars and later the appearance of the picture in color,
                            gave Eugene such a lift in spirit that he felt, for the time being, as
                            though his art career had reached a substantial basis, and he began to
                            think of going to Blackwood to visit Angela. But first he must do some
                            more work.
                        He concentrated his attention on several additional scenes, doing a view
                            of Greeley Square in a sopping drizzle, and a picture of an L train
                            speeding up the Bowery on its high, thin trestle of steel. He had an eye
                            for contrasts, picking out lights and shadows sharply, making wonderful
                            blurs that were like colors in precious stones, confused and suggestive.
                            He took one of these after a month to Truth, and again
                            the Art Director was his victim. He tried to be indifferent, but it was
                            hard. The young man had something that he wanted.
                        "You might show me anything else you do in this line,"
                            he said. "I can use a few if they come up to these
                            two."
                        Eugene went away with his head in the air. He was beginning to get the
                            courage of his ability.
                        It takes quite a number of drawings at seventy-five and one hundred
                            dollars each to make a living income, and artists were too numerous to
                            make anyone's opportunity for immediate distinction easy.
                            Eugene waited months to see his first drawing come out. He stayed away
                            from the smaller magazines in the hope that he would soon be able to
                            contribute to the larger ones, but they were not eagerly seeking new
                            artists. He met, through Shotmeyer, two artists who were living in one
                            studio in Waverly Place and took a great liking to them. One of them,
                            McHugh, was an importation from Wyoming with delicious stories of
                            mountain farming and mining; the other, Smite, was a fisher lad from
                            Nova Scotia. McHugh, tall and lean, with a face that looked like that of
                            a raw yokel, but with some gleam of humor and insight in the eyes which
                            redeemed it instantly, was Eugene's first choice of a pleasing,
                            genial personality. Joseph Smite had a sense of the sea about him. He
                            was short and stout, and rather solidly put together, like a blacksmith.
                            He had big hands and feet, a big mouth, big, bony eye sockets and coarse
                            brown hair. When he talked, ordinarily, it was with a slow, halting air
                            and when he smiled or laughed it was with 
                            his whole face. When he became excited or gay something seemed to happen
                            distinctly to every part of his body. His face became a curious
                            cross-hatch of genial lines. His tongue loosened and he talked fast. He
                            had a habit of emphasizing his language with oaths on these
                            occasionsnumerous and picturesque, for he had worked with sea-faring men
                            and had accumulated a vast vocabulary of picturesque expressions. They
                            were vacant of evil intent so far as he was concerned, for there was no
                            subtlety or guile in him. He was kindly and genial all through. Eugene
                            wanted to be friendly and struck a gay relationship with these two. He
                            found that he got along excellently well with them and could swap
                            humorous incidents and character touches by the hour. It was some months
                            before he could actually say that he was intimate with them, but he
                            began to visit them regularly and after a time they called on him.
                        It was during this year that he came to know several models passingly
                            well, to visit the various art exhibitions, to be taken up by Hudson
                            Dula, the Art Director of Truth and invited to two or
                            three small dinners given to artists and girls. He did not find anyone
                            he liked exceptionally well barring one Editor of a rather hopeless
                            magazine called Craft, devoted to art subjects, a
                            young blond, of poetic temperament, who saw in him a spirit of beauty
                            and tried to make friends with him. Eugene responded cheerfully and
                            thereafter Richard Wheeler was a visitor at his studio from time to
                            time. He was not making enough to house himself much better these days,
                            but he did manage to buy a few plaster casts and to pick up a few nice
                            things in copper and brass for his studio. His own drawings, his street
                            scenes, were hung here and there. The way in which the exceptionally
                            clever looked at them convinced him by degrees that he had something big
                            to say.
                        It was while he was settling himself in this atmospherethe spring of the
                            second yearthat he decided to go back and visit Angela and incidentally
                            Alexandria and Chicago. He had been away now sixteen months, had not
                            seen anyone who had won his affections or alienated him from his love of
                            Angela. He wrote in March that he thought he would be coming in May or
                            June. He did get away in Julya season when the city was suffering from a
                            wave of intense heat. He had not done so muchillustrated eight or ten
                            stories and drawn four double page pictures for Truth,
                            one of which had appeared; but he was getting along. Just as he was
                            starting for Chicago and Blackwood a second one was put on the
                            news-stand and he proudly carried a copy of it with him on the train. It
                            was the Bowery by night,  with the L train
                            rushing overhead and, as reproduced, it had color and life. He felt
                            intensely proud and knew that Angela would also. She had written him
                            such a glowing appreciation of the East Side picture called
                            "Six O'clock."
                        As he rode he dreamed.
                        He reached it at last, the long stretch between New York and Chicago
                            traversed; he arrived in the Lake city in the afternoon, and without
                            pausing to revisit the scenes of his earlier efforts took a five
                            o'clock train for Blackwood. It was sultry, and on the way
                            heavy thunder clouds gathered and broke in a short, splendid summer
                            rain. The trees and grass were thoroughly wet and the dust of the roads
                            was laid. There was a refreshing coolness about the air which caressed
                            the weary flesh. Little towns nestling among green trees came into view
                            and passed again, and at last Blackwood appeared. It was smaller than
                            Alexandria, but not so different. Like the other it was marked by a
                            church steeple, a saw mill, a pretty brick business street and many
                            broad branching green trees. Eugene felt drawn to it at sight. It was
                            such a place as Angela should live in.
                        It was seven o'clock and nearing dusk when he arrived. He had
                            not given Angela the definite hour of his arrival and so decided to stay
                            over night at the little inn or so-called hotel which he saw up the
                            street. He had brought only a large suit case and a traveling bag. He
                            inquired of the proprietor the direction and distance of the Blue house
                            from the town, found that he could get a vehicle any time in the morning
                            which would take him over, as the phrase ran, for a dollar. He ate his
                            supper of fried steak and poor coffee and fried potatoes and then sat
                            out on the front porch facing the street in a rocking chair, to see how
                            the village of Blackwood wagged and to enjoy the cool of the evening. As
                            he sat he thought of Angela's home and how nice it must be.
                            This town was such a little placeso quiet. There would not be another
                            train coming up from the city until after eleven.
                        After a time he rose and took a short walk, breathing the night air.
                            Later he came back and throwing wide the windows of the stuffy room sat
                            looking out. The summer night with its early rain, its wet trees, its
                            smell of lush, wet, growing things, was impressing itself on Eugene as
                            one might impress wet clay with a notable design. Eugene's mood
                            was soft toward the little houses with their glowing windows, the
                            occasional pedestrians with their "howdy Jakes" and
                            "evenin' Henrys." He was touched by the noise
                            of the crickets, the chirp of the tree toads, the hang of the lucent
                            suns and planets  above the tree tops. The
                            whole night was quick with the richness of fertility, stirring subtly
                            about some work which concerned man very little or not at all, yet of
                            which he was at least a part, till his eyelids drooped after a time and
                            he went to bed to sleep deeply and dreamlessly.
                        Next morning he was up early, eager for the hour to arrive when he might
                            start. He did not think it advisable to leave before nine
                            o'clock, and attracted considerable attention by strolling
                            about, his tall, spare, graceful figure and forceful profile being an
                            unusual sight to the natives. At nine o'clock a respectable
                            carryall was placed at his disposal and he was driven out over a long
                            yellow road, damp with the rain of the night before and shaded in places
                            by overhanging trees. There were so many lovely wild flowers growing in
                            the angles of the rail fenceswild yellow and pink roses, elder flower,
                            Queen Anne's lace, dozens of beautiful blooms, that Eugene was
                            lost in admiration. His heart sang over the beauty of yellowing
                            wheat-fields, the young corn, already three feet high, the vistas of hay
                            and clover, with patches of woods enclosing them, and over all, house
                            martens and swallows scudding after insects and high up in the air his
                            boyhood dream of beauty, a soaring buzzard.
                        As he rode the moods of his boyhood days came back to himhis love of
                            winging butterflies and birds; his passion for the voice of the
                            wood-dove (there was one crying in the still distance now)his adoration
                            for the virile strength of the men of the countryside. He thought as he
                            rode that he would like to paint a series of country scenes that would
                            be as simple as those cottage dooryards that they now and then passed;
                            this little stream that cut the road at right angles and made a drinking
                            place for the horses; this skeleton of an old abandoned home, doorless
                            and windowless, where the roof sagged and hollyhocks and morning glories
                            grew high under the eaves. "We city dwellers do not
                            know," he sighed, as though he had not taken the country in his
                            heart and carried it to town as had every other boy and girl who had
                            gone the way of the metropolis.
                        The Blue homestead was located in the centre of a rather wide rolling
                            stretch of country which lay between two gently rising ridges of hill
                            covered with trees. One corner of the farm, and that not so very far
                            from the house, was cut by a stream, a little shallow thing, singing
                            over pebbles and making willows and hazel bushes to grow in profusion
                            along its banks, and there was a little lake within a mile of the house.
                            In front of it was a ten acre field of wheat, to the right of it a
                            grazing oatch of several acres, to the left a field of clover: and near
                                 the house by a barn, a well, a pig
                            pen, a corn crib and some smaller sheds. In front of the house was a
                            long open lawn, down the centre of which ran a gravel path, lined on
                            either side by tall old elm trees. The immediate dooryard was shut from
                            this noble lawn by a low picket fence along the length of which grew
                            lilac bushes and inside which, nearer the house, were simple beds of
                            roses, calycanthus and golden glow. Over an arbor leading from the
                            backdoor to a rather distant summer kitchen flourished a grapevine, and
                            there was a tall remnant of a tree trunk covered completely with a
                            yellow blooming trumpet vine. The dooryard's lawn was smooth
                            enough, and the great lawn was a dream of green grass, graced with the
                            shadows of a few great trees. The house was long and of no great depth,
                            the front a series of six rooms ranged in a row, without an upper
                            storey. The two middle rooms which had originally, perhaps seventy years
                            before, been all there was of the house. Since then all the other rooms
                            had been added, and there was in addition to these a lean-to containing
                            a winter kitchen and dining room, and to the west of the arbor leading
                            to the summer kitchen, an old unpainted frame storehouse. In all its
                            parts the place was shabby and run down but picturesque and quaint.
                        Eugene was surprised to find the place so charming. It appealed to him,
                            the long, low front, with doors opening from the centre and end rooms
                            direct upon the grass, with windows set in climbing vines and the lilac
                            bushes forming a green wall between the house and the main lawn. The
                            great rows of elm trees throwing a grateful shade seemed like sentinel
                            files. As the carryall turned in at the wagon gate in front he thought
                            "What a place for love! and to think Angela should live
                            here."
                        The carryall rattled down the pebble road to the left of the lawn and
                            stopped at the garden gate. Marietta came out. Marietta was twenty-two
                            years old, and as gay and joyous as her elder sister Angela was sober
                            and in a way morbid. Light souled as a kitten, looking always on the
                            bright side of things, she made hosts of friends everywhere she went,
                            having a perfect swarm of lovers who wrote her eager notes, but whom she
                            rebuffed with good natured, sympathetic simplicity. Here on this farm
                            there was not supposed to be so much opportunity for social life as in
                            town, but beaux made their way here on one pretext and another. Marietta
                            was the magnet, and in the world of gaiety which she created Angela
                            shared.
                        Angela was now in the dining roomeasy to be calledbut Marietta wanted to
                            see for herself what sort of lover her 
                            sister had captured. She was surprised at his height, his presence, the
                            keenness of his eyes. She hardly understood so fine a lover for her own
                            sister, but held out her hand smilingly.
                        "This is Mr. Witla, isn't it?" she asked.
                        "The same," he replied, a little pompously.
                            "Isn't it a lovely drive over here?"
                        "We think it nice in nice weather," she laughed.
                            "You wouldn't like it so much in winter.
                            Won't you come in and put your grip here in the hall? David
                            will take it to your room."
                        Eugene obeyed, but he was thinking of Angela and when she would appear
                            and how she would look. He stepped into the large, low ceiled, dark,
                            cool parlor and was delighted to see a piano and some music piled on a
                            rack. Through an open window he saw several hammocks out on the main
                            lawn, under the trees. It seemed a wonderful place to him, the substance
                            of poetryand then Angela appeared. She was dressed in plain white linen.
                            Her hair, braided as he liked it in a great rope, lay as a band across
                            her forehead. She had picked a big pink rose and put it in her waist. At
                            sight of her Eugene held out his arms and she flew to them. He kissed
                            her vigorously, for Marietta had discreetly retired and they were left
                            alone.
                        "So I have you at last," he whispered, and kissed her
                            again.
                        "Oh, yes, yes, and it has been so long," she
                            sighed.
                        "You couldn't have suffered any more than I
                            have," he consoled. "Every minute has been torture,
                            waiting, waiting, waiting!"
                        "Let's not think of that now," she urged.
                            "We have each other. You are here."
                        "Yes, here I am," he laughed, "all the virtues
                            done up in one brown suit. Isn't it lovelythese great trees,
                            that beautiful lawn?"
                        He paused from kissing to look out of the window.
                        "I'm glad you like it," she replied joyously.
                            "We think it's nice, but this place is so
                            old."
                        "I love it for that," he cried appreciatively.
                            "Those bushes are so nicethose roses. Oh, dear, you
                            don't know how sweet it all seemsand youyou are so
                            nice."
                        He held her off at arm's length and surveyed her while she
                            blushed becomingly. His eager, direct, vigorous onslaught confused her
                            at timescaused her pulse to beat at a high rate.
                        They went out into the dooryard after a time and then Marietta appeared
                            again, and with her Mrs. Blue, a comfortable, round bodied mother of
                            sixty, who greeted Eugene cordially. He could feel in her what he felt
                            in his own motherin every  good motherlove
                            of order and peace, love of the well being of her children, love of
                            public respect and private honor and morality. All these things Eugene
                            heartily respected in others. He was glad to see them, believed they had
                            a place in society, but was uncertain whether they bore any fixed or
                            important relationship to him. He was always thinking in his private
                            conscience that life was somehow bigger and subtler and darker than any
                            given theory or order of living. It might well be worth while for a man
                            or woman to be honest and moral within a given condition or quality of
                            society, but it did not matter at all in the ultimate substance and
                            composition of the universe. Any form or order of society which hoped to
                            endure must have individuals like Mrs. Blue, who would conform to the
                            highest standards and theories of that society, and when found they were
                            admirable, but they meant nothing in the shifting, subtle forces of
                            nature. They were just accidental harmonies blossoming out of something
                            which meant everything here to this order, nothing to the universe at
                            large. At twenty-two years of age he was thinking these things,
                            wondering whether it would be possible ever to express them; wondering
                            what people would think of him if they actually knew what he did think;
                            wondering if there was anything, anything, which was really stablea rock
                            to cling toand not mere shifting shadow and unreality.
                        Mrs. Blue looked at her daughter's young lover with a kindly
                            eye. She had heard a great deal about him. Having raised her children to
                            be honest, moral and truthful she trusted them to associate only with
                            those who were equally so. She assumed that Eugene was such a man, and
                            his frank open countenance and smiling eyes and mouth convinced her that
                            he was basically good. Also, what to her were his wonderful drawings,
                            sent to Angela in the form of proofs from time to time, particularly the
                            one of the East Side crowd, had been enough to prejudice her in his
                            favor. No other daughter of the family, and there were three married,
                            had approximated to this type of man in her choice. Eugene was looked
                            upon as a prospective son-in-law who would fulfill all the conventional
                            obligations joyfully and as a matter of course.
                        "It's very good of you to put me up, Mrs.
                            Blue," Eugene said pleasantly. "I've always
                            wanted to come out here for a visitI've heard so much of the
                            family from Angela."
                        "It's just a country home we have, not much to look at,
                            but we like it," replied his hostess. She smiled blandly, asked
                            if he wouldn't make himself comfortable in one of the hammocks,
                                 wanted to know how he was getting
                            along with his work in New York and then returned to her cooking, for
                            she was already preparing his first meal. Eugene strolled with Angela to
                            the big lawn under the trees and sat down. He was experiencing the
                            loftiest of human emotions on earthlove in youth, accepted and requited,
                            hope in youth, justified in action by his success in New York; peace in
                            youth, for he had a well earned holiday in his grasp, was resting with
                            the means to do so and with love and beauty and admiration and joyous
                            summer weather to comfort him.
                        As he rocked to and fro in the hammock gazing at the charming lawn and
                            realizing all these things, his glance rested at last upon Angela, and
                            he thought, "Life can really hold no finer thing than
                            this."
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XVIII
                        
                            TOWARD noon old Jotham Blue came in from a cornfield
                            where he had been turning the earth between the rows. Although
                            sixty-five and with snowy hair and beard he looked to be vigorous, and
                            good to live until ninety or a hundred. His eyes were blue and keen, his
                            color rosy. He had great broad shoulders set upon a spare waist, for he
                            had been a handsome figure of a man in his youth.
                        "How do you do, Mr. Witla," he inquired with easy grace
                            as he strolled up, the yellow mud of the fields on his boots. He had
                            pulled a big jackknife out of his pocket and begun whittling a fine twig
                            he had picked up. "I'm glad to see you. My daughter,
                            Angela, has been telling me one thing and another about
                            you."
                        He smiled as he looked at Eugene. Angela, who was sitting beside him,
                            rose and strolled toward the house.
                        "I'm glad to see you," said Eugene.
                            "I like your country around here. It looks
                            prosperous."
                        "It is prosperous," said the old patriarch, drawing up
                            a chair which stood at the foot of a tree and seating himself. Eugene
                            sank back into the hammock.
                        "It's a soil that's rich in lime and carbon
                            and sodiumthe things which make plant life grow. We need very little
                            fertilizer herevery little. The principal thing is to keep the ground
                            thoroughly cultivated and to keep out the bugs and weeds."
                        He cut at his stick meditatively. Eugene noted the chemical and physical
                            knowledge relative to farming. It pleased him to find brain coupled with
                            crop cultivation.
                        "I noticed some splendid fields of wheat as I came
                            over," he observed.
                        "Yes, wheat does well here," Blue went on,
                            "when the weather is moderately favorable. Corn does well. We
                            have a splendid apple crop and grapes are generally successful in this
                            state. I have always thought that Wisconsin had a little the best of the
                            other valley states, for we are blessed with a moderate climate, plenty
                            of streams and rivers and a fine, broken landscape. There are good mines
                            up north and lots of lumber. We are a prosperous people, we
                            Wisconsiners, decidedly prosperous. This state has a great
                            future."
                        Eugene noted the wide space between his clear blue eyes as  he talked. He liked the bigness of his
                            conception of his state and of his country. No petty little
                            ground-harnessed ploughman this, but a farmer in the big sense of the
                            worda cultivator of the soil, with an understanding of itan American who
                            loved his state and his country.
                        "I have always thought of the Mississippi valley as the country
                            of the future," said Eugene. "We have had the Valley
                            of the Nile and the Valley of the Euphrates with big populations, but
                            this is something larger. I rather feel as though a great wave of
                            population were coming here in the future."
                        "It is the new paradise of the world," said Jotham
                            Blue, pausing in his whittling and holding up his right hand for
                            emphasis. "We haven't come to realize its
                            possibilities. The fruit, the corn, the wheat, to feed the nations of
                            the world can be raised here. I sometimes marvel at the productivity of
                            the soil. It is so generous. It is like a great mother. It only asks to
                            be treated kindly to give all that it has."
                        Eugene smiled. The bigness of his prospective father-in-law's
                            feelings lured him. He felt as though he could love this man.
                        They talked on about other things, the character of the surrounding
                            population, the growth of Chicago, the recent threat of a war with
                            Venezuela, the rise of a new leader in the Democratic party, a man whom
                            Jotham admired very much. As he was telling of the latter's
                            exploitsit appeared he had recently met him at BlackwoodMrs. Blue
                            appeared in the front door.
                        "Jotham!" she called.
                        He rose. "My wife must want a bucket of water," he
                            said, and strolled away.
                        Eugene smiled. This was lovely. This was the way life should becompounded
                            of health, strength, good nature, understanding, simplicity. He wished
                            he were a man like Jotham, as sound, as hearty, as clean and strong. To
                            think he had raised eight children. No wonder Angela was lovely. They
                            all were, no doubt.
                        While he was rocking, Marietta came back smiling, her blond hair blowing
                            about her face. Like her father she had blue eyes, like him a sanguine
                            temperament, warm and ruddy. Eugene felt drawn to her. She reminded him
                            a little of Rubya little of Margaret. She was bursting with young
                            health.
                        "You're stronger than Angela," he said,
                            looking at her.
                        "Oh, yes, I can always outrun Angel-face," she
                            exclaimed. "We fight sometimes but I can get things away from
                            her.  She has to give in. Sometimes I feel
                            olderI always take the lead."
                        Eugene rejoiced in the sobriquet of Angel-face. It suited Angela, he
                            thought. She looked like pictures of Angels in the old prints and in the
                            stained glass windows he had seen. He wondered in a vague way, however,
                            whether Marietta did not have the sweeter temperamentwere not really
                            more lovable and cosy. But he put the thought forcefully out of his
                            mind. He felt he must be loyal to Angela here.
                        While they were talking the youngest boy, David, came up and sat down on
                            the grass. He was short and stocky for his yearssixteenwith an
                            intelligent face and an inquiring eye. Eugene noted stability and quiet
                            force in his character at once. He began to see that these children had
                            inherited character as well as strength from their parents. This was a
                            home in which successful children were being reared. Benjamin came up
                            after awhile, a tall, overgrown, puritanical youth, with western
                            modifications and then Samuel, the oldest of the living boys and the
                            most impressive. He was big and serene like his father, of brown
                            complexion and hickory strength. Eugene learned in the conversation that
                            he was a railroad man in St. Paulhome for a brief vacation, after three
                            years of absence. He was with a road called the Great Northern, already
                            a Second Assistant Passenger Agent and with great prospects, so the
                            family thought. Eugene could see that all the boys and girls, like
                            Angela, were ruggedly and honestly truthful. They were written all over
                            with Christian preceptnot church dogmabut Christian precept, lightly and
                            good naturedly applied. They obeyed the ten commandments in so far as
                            possible and lived within the limits of what people considered sane and
                            decent. Eugene wondered at this. His own moral laxity was a puzzle to
                            him. He wondered whether he were not really all wrong and they all
                            right. Yet the subtlety of the universe was always with himthe mystery
                            of its chemistry. For a given order of society no doubt he was out of
                            placefor life in general, well, he could not say.
                        At 12.30 dinner was announced from the door by Mrs. Blue and they all
                            rose. It was one of those simple home feasts common to any intelligent
                            farming family. There was a generous supply of fresh vegetables, green
                            peas, new potatoes, new string beans. A steak had been secured from the
                            itinerant butcher who served these parts and Mrs. Blue had made hot
                            light biscuit. Eugene expressed a predilection for fresh buttermilk and
                            they brought him a pitcherful, saying that as a rule it was given to  the pigs; the children did not care for
                            it. They talked and jested and he heard odd bits of information
                            concerning people here and theresome farmer who had lost a horse by
                            colic; some other farmer who was preparing to cut his wheat. There were
                            frequent references to the three oldest sisters, who lived in other
                            Wisconsin towns. Their children appeared to be numerous and fairly
                            troublesome. They all came home frequently, it appeared, and were bound
                            up closely with the interests of the family as a whole.
                        "The more you know about the Blue family," observed
                            Samuel to Eugene, who expressed surprise at the solidarity of interest,
                            "the more you realize that they're a clan not a
                            family. They stick together like glue."
                        "That's a rather nice trait, I should say,"
                            laughed Eugene, who felt no such keen interest in his relatives.
                        "Well, if you want to find out how the Blue family stick
                            together just do something to one of them," observed Jake Doll,
                            a neighbor who had entered.
                        "That's sure true, isn't it, Sis,"
                            observed Samuel, who was sitting next to Angela, putting his hand
                            affectionately on his sister's arm. Eugene noted the movement.
                            She nodded her head affectionately.
                        "Yes, we Blues all hang together."
                        Eugene almost begrudged him his sister's apparent affection,
                            Could such a girl be cut out of such an atmosphereseparated from it
                            completely, brought into a radically different world, he wondered. Would
                            she understand him; would he stick by her. He smiled at Jotham and Mrs.
                            Blue and thought he ought to, but life was strange. You never could tell
                            what might happen.
                        During the afternoon there were more lovely impressions. He and Angela
                            sat alone in the cool parlor for two hours after dinner while he
                            restated his impressions of her over and over. He told her how charming
                            he thought her home was, how nice her father and mother, what
                            interesting brothers she had. He made a genial sketch of Jotham as he
                            had strolled up to him at noon, which pleased Angela and she kept it to
                            show to her father. He made her pose in the window and sketched her head
                            and her halo of hair. He thought of his double page illustration of the
                            Bowery by night and went to fetch it, looking for the first time at the
                            sweet cool room at the end of the house which he was to occupy. One
                            window, a west one, had hollyhocks looking in, and the door to the north
                            gave out on the cool, shady grass. He moved in beauty, he thought; was
                            treading on showered happiness. It hurt him to think that  such joy might not always be, as though
                            beauty were not everywhere and forever present.
                        When Angela saw the picture which Truth had reproduced,
                            she was beside herself with joy and pride and happiness. It was such a
                            testimony to her lover's ability. He had written almost daily
                            of the New York art world, so she was familiar with that in exaggerated
                            ideas, but these actual things, like reproduced pictures, were
                            different. The whole world would see this picture. He must be famous
                            already, she imagined.
                        That evening and the next and the next as they sat in the parlor alone he
                            drew nearer and nearer to that definite understanding which comes
                            between a man and woman when they love. Eugene could never stop with
                            mere kissing and caressing in a reserved way, if not persistently
                            restrained. It seemed natural to him that love should go on. He had not
                            been married. He did not know what its responsibilities were. He had
                            never given a thought to what his parents had endured to make him worth
                            while. There was no instinct in him to tell him. He had no yearnings for
                            parenthood, that normal desire which gives visions of a home and the
                            proper social conditions for rearing a family. All he thought of was the
                            love making periodthe billing and cooing and the transports of delight
                            which come with it. With Angela he felt that these would be supernormal
                            precisely because she was so slow in yieldingso on the defensive against
                            herself. He could look in her eyes at times and see a swooning veil
                            which foreshadowed a storm of emotion. He would sit by her stroking her
                            hands, touching her check, smoothing her hair, or at other times holding
                            her in his arms. It was hard for her to resist those significant
                            pressures he gave, to hold him at arm's length, for she herself
                            was eager for the delights of love.
                        It was on the third night of his stay and in the face of his growing
                            respect for every member of this family, that he swept Angela to the
                            danger linewould have carried her across it had it not been for a
                            fortuitous wave of emotion, which was not of his creation, but of
                            hers.
                        They had been to the little lake, Okoonee, a little way from the house
                            during the afternoon for a swim.
                        Afterward he and Angela and David and Marietta had taken a drive. It was
                            one of those lovely afternoons that come sometimes in summer and speak
                            direct to the heart of love and beauty. It was so fair and warm, the
                            shadows of the trees so comforting that they fairly made
                            Eugene's heart ache. He was young now, life was beautiful, but
                            how would it be when  he was old? A morbid
                            anticipation of disaster seemed to harrow his soul.
                        The sunset had already died away when they drew near home. Insects
                            hummed, a cow-bell tinkled now and then; breaths of cool air, those
                            harbingers of the approaching eve, swept their cheeks as they passed
                            occasional hollows. Approaching the house they saw the blue smoke curls
                            rising from the kitchen chimney, foretelling the preparation of the
                            evening meal. Eugene clasped Angela's hand in an ecstasy of
                            emotion.
                        He wanted to dreamsitting in the hammock with Angela as the dusk fell,
                            watching the pretty scene. Life was all around. Jotham and Benjamin came
                            in from the fields and the sound of their voices and of the splashing
                            water came from the kitchen door where they were washing. There was an
                            anticipatory stamping of horses' feet in the barn, the lowing
                            of a distant cow, the hungry grunt of pigs. Eugene shook his headit was
                            so pastoral, so sweet.
                        At supper he scarcely touched what was put before him, the group at the
                            dining table holding his attention as a spectacle. Afterwards he sat
                            with the family on the lawn outside the door, breathing the odor of
                            flowers, watching the stars over the trees, listening to Jotham and Mrs.
                            Blue, to Samuel, Benjamin, David, Marietta and occasionally Angela.
                            Because of his mood, sad in the face of exquisite beauty, she also was
                            subdued. She said little, listening to Eugene and her father, but when
                            she did talk her voice was sweet.
                        Jotham arose, after a time, and went to bed, and one by one the others
                            followed. David and Marietta went into the sitting room and then Samuel
                            and Benjamin left. They gave as an excuse hard work for the morning.
                            Samuel was going to try his hand again at thrashing. Eugene took Angela
                            by the hand and led her out where some hydrangeas were blooming, white
                            as snow by day, but pale and silvery in the dark. He took her face in
                            his hands, telling her again of love.
                        "It's been such a wonderful day I'm all
                            wrought up," he said. "Life is so beautiful here. This
                            place is so sweet and peaceful. And you! oh, you!" kisses ended
                            his words.
                        They stood there a little while, then went back into the parlor where she
                            lighted a lamp. It cast a soft yellow glow over the room, just enough to
                            make it warm, he thought. They sat first side by side on two rocking
                            chairs and then later on a settee, he holding her in his arms. Before
                            supper she had changed to a loose cream colored house gown. Now Eugene
                            persuaded her to let her hair hang in the two braids.
                        
                        Real passion is silent. It was so intense with him that he sat
                            contemplating her as if in a spell. She leaned back against his shoulder
                            stroking his hair, but finally ceased even that, for her own feeling was
                            too intense to make movement possible. She thought of him as a young
                            god, strong, virile, beautifula brilliant future before him. All these
                            years she had waited for someone to truly love her and now this splendid
                            youth had apparently cast himself at her feet. He stroked her hands, her
                            neck, cheeks, then slowly gathered her close and buried his head against
                            her bosom.
                        Angela was strong in convention, in the precepts of her parents, in the
                            sense of her family and its attitude, but this situation was more than
                            she could resist. She accepted first the pressure of his arm, then the
                            slow subtlety with which he caressed her. Resistance seemed almost
                            impossible now for he held her closetight within the range of his
                            magnetism. When finally she felt the pressure of his hand upon her
                            quivering limbs, she threw herself back in a transport of agony and
                            delight.
                        "No, no, Eugene," she begged. "No, no! Save me
                            from myself. Save me from myself. Oh, Eugene!"
                        He paused a moment to look at her face. It was wrought in lines of
                            intense sufferingpale as though she were ill. Her body was quite limp.
                            Only the hot, moist lips told the significant story. He could not stop
                            at once. Slowly he drew his hand away, then let his sensitive
                            artists' fingers rest gently on her neckher bosom.
                        She struggled lamely at this point and slipped to her knees, her dress
                            loosened at the neck.
                        "Don't, Eugene," she begged,
                            "don't. Think of my father, my mother. I, who have
                            boasted so. I of whom they feel so sure. Oh, Eugene, I beg of
                            you!"
                        He stroked her hair, her cheeks, looking into her face as Ablard might
                            have looked at Hlose.
                        "Oh, I know why it is," she exclaimed, convulsively.
                            "I am no better than any other, but I have waited so long, so
                            long! But I mustn't! Oh, Eugene, I mustn't! Help
                            me!"
                        Vaguely Eugene understood. She had been without lovers. Why? he thought.
                            She was beautiful. He got up, half intending to carry her to his room,
                            but he paused, thinking. She was such a pathetic figure. Was he really
                            as bad as this? Could he not be fair in this one instance? Her father
                            had been so nice to himher motherHe saw Jotham Blue before him, Mrs.
                            Blue, her admiring brothers and sisters, as they had been a little while
                            before. He looked at her and still the prize lured  himalmost swept him on in spite of himself, but he
                            stayed.
                        "Stand up, Angela," he said at last, pulling himself
                            together, looking at her intensely. She did so. "Leave me
                            now," he went on, "right away! I won't answer
                            for myself if you don't. I am really trying. Please
                            go."
                        She paused, looking at him fearfully, regretfully.
                        "Oh, forgive me, Eugene," she pleaded.
                        "Forgive me," he said. "I'm the one.
                            But you go now, sweet. You don't know how hard this is. Help me
                            by going."
                        She moved away and he followed her with his eyes, yearningly, burningly,
                            until she reached the door. When she closed it softly he went into his
                            own room and sat down. His body was limp and weary. He ached from head
                            to foot from the intensity of the mood he had passed through. He went
                            over the recent incidents, almost stunned by his experience and then
                            went outside and stood under the stairs, listening. Tree toads were
                            chirping, there were suspicious cracklings in the grass as of bugs
                            stirring. A duck quacked somewhere feebly. The bell of the family cow
                            tinkled somewhere over near the water of the little stream. He saw the
                            great dipper in the sky, Sirius, Canopus, the vast galaxy of the Milky
                            Way.
                        "What is life anyway?" he asked himself. "What
                            is the human body? What produces passion? Here we are for a few years
                            surging with a fever of longing and then we burn out and die."
                            He thought of some lines he might write, of pictures he might paint. All
                            the while, reproduced before his mind's eye like a
                            cinematograph, were views of Angela as she had been tonight in his arms,
                            on her knees. He had seen her true form. He had held her in his arms. He
                            had voluntarily resigned her charms for tonight; anyhow, no harm had
                            come. It never should.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XIX
                        
                            IT would be hard to say in what respect, if any, the
                            experiences of this particular night altered Eugene's opinion
                            of Angela. He was inclined to like her better for what he would have
                            called her humanness. Thus frankly to confess her weakness and inability
                            to save herself was splendid. That he was given the chance to do a noble
                            deed was fortunate and uplifting. He knew now that he could take her if
                            he wished, but once calm again he resolved to be fair and not to insist.
                            He could wait.
                        The state of Angela's mind, on the contrary, once she had come
                            out of her paroxysm and gained the privacy of her own room, or rather
                            the room she shared with Marietta at the other extreme of the house, was
                            pitiable. She had for so long considered herself an estimable and
                            virtuous girl. There was in her just a faint trace of prudery which
                            might readily have led to an unhappy old maid existence for her if
                            Eugene, with his superiority, or non-understanding, or indifference to
                            conventional theories and to old-maidish feelings, had not come along
                            and with his customary blindness to material prosperity and age
                            limitations, seized upon and made love to her. He had filled her brain
                            with a whirlwind of notions hitherto unfamiliar to her world and set
                            himself up in her brain as a law unto himself. He was not like other
                            menshe could see that. He was superior to them. He might not make much
                            money, being an artist, but he could make other things which to her
                            seemed more desirable. Fame, beautiful pictures, notable friends, were
                            not these things far superior to money? She had had little enough money
                            in all conscience, and if Eugene made anything at all it would be enough
                            for her. He seemed to be under the notion that he needed a lot to get
                            married, whereas she would have been glad to risk it on almost anything
                            at all.
                        This latest revelation of herself, besides tearing her mind from a
                            carefully nurtured belief in her own virtuous impregnability, raised at
                            the same time a spectre of disaster in so far as Eugene's love
                            for her was concerned. Would he, now that she had allowed him those
                            precious endearments which should have been reserved for the marriage
                            bed only, care for her as much as he had before? Would he not think of
                            her as a light minded, easily spoiled creature who was waiting only  for a propitious moment to yield herself?
                            She had been lost to all sense of right and wrong in that hour, that she
                            knew. Her father's character and what he stood for, her
                            mother's decency and love of virtue, her cleanly-minded,
                            right-living brothers and sisters,all had been forgotten and here she
                            was, a tainted maiden, virtuous in technical sense it is true, but
                            tainted. Her convention-trained conscience smote her vigorously and she
                            groaned in her heart. She went outside the door of her own room and sat
                            down on the damp grass in the early morning to think. It was so cool and
                            calm everywhere but in her own soul. She held her face in her hands,
                            feeling her hot cheeks, wondering what Eugene was thinking now. What
                            would her father think, her mother? She wrung her hands more than once
                            and finally went inside to see if she could not rest. She was not
                            unconscious of the beauty and joy of the episode, but she was troubled
                            by what she felt she ought to think, what the consequences to her future
                            might be. To hold Eugene nowthat was a subtle question. To hold up her
                            head in front of him as she had, could she? To keep him from going
                            further. It was a difficult situation and she tossed restlessly all
                            night, getting little sleep. In the morning she arose weary and
                            disturbed, but more desperately in love than ever. This wonderful youth
                            had revealed an entirely new and intensely dramatic world to her.
                        When they met on the lawn again before breakfast, Angela was garbed in
                            white linen. She looked waxen and delicate and her eyes showed dark
                            rings as well as the dark thoughts that were troubling her. Eugene took
                            her hand sympathetically.
                        "Don't worry," he said, "I know. It
                            isn't as bad as you think." And he smiled
                            tenderly.
                        "Oh, Eugene, I don't understand myself now,"
                            she said sorrowfully. "I thought I was better than
                            that."
                        "We're none of us better than that," he
                            replied simply. "We just think we are sometimes. You are not
                            any different to me. You just think you are."
                        "Oh, are you sure?" she asked eagerly.
                        "Quite sure," he replied. "Love isn't
                            a terrible thing between any two. It's just lovely. Why should
                            I think worse of you?"
                        "Oh, because good girls don't do what I have done. I
                            have been raised to know betterto do better."
                        "All a belief, my dear, which you get from what has been taught
                            you. You think it wrong. Why? Because your father and mother told you
                            so. Isn't that it?"
                        
                        "Oh, not that alone. Everybody thinks it's wrong. The
                            Bible teaches that it is. Everybody turns his back on you when he finds
                            out."
                        "Wait a minute," pleaded Eugene argumentatively. He was
                            trying to solve this puzzle for himself. "Let's leave
                            the Bible out of it, for I don't believe in the Biblenot as a
                            law of action anyhow. The fact that everybody thinks it's wrong
                            wouldn't necessarily make it so, would it?" He was
                            ignoring completely the significance of everybody as a
                            reflection of those principles which govern the universe.
                        "No-o-o," ventured Angela doubtfully.
                        "Listen," went on Eugene. "Everybody in
                            Constantinople believes that Mahomet is the Prophet of God. That
                            doesn't make him so, does it?"
                        "No."
                        "Well, then, everyone here might believe that what we did last
                            night was wrong without making it so. Isn't that
                            true?"
                        "Yes," replied Angela confusedly. She really did not
                            know. She could not argue with him. He was too subtle, but her innate
                            principles and instincts were speaking plainly enough, nevertheless.
                        "Now what you're really thinking about is what people
                            will do. They'll turn their backs on you, you say. That is a
                            practical matter. Your father might turn you out of doors"
                        "I think he would," replied Angela, little
                            understanding the bigness of the heart of her father.
                        "I think he wouldn't," said Eugene,
                            "but that's neither here nor there. Men might refuse
                            to marry you. Those are material considerations. You wouldn't
                            say they had anything to do with real right or wrong, would
                            you?"
                        Eugene had no convincing end to his argument. He did not know any more
                            than anyone else what was right or wrong in this matter. He was merely
                            talking to convince himself, but he had enough logic to confuse
                            Angela.
                        "I don't know," she said vaguely.
                        "Right," he went on loftily, "is something
                            which is supposed to be in accordance with a standard of truth. Now no
                            one in all the world know what truth is, no one. There is no way of
                            telling. You can only act wisely or unwisely as regards your personal
                            welfare. If that's what you're worrying about, and it
                            is, I can tell you that you're no worse off. There's
                            nothing the matter with your welfare. I think you're better
                            off, for I like you better."
                        Angela wondered at the subtlety of his brain. She was not  sure but that what he said might be true.
                            Could her fears be baseless? She felt sure she had lost some of the
                            bloom of her youth anyhow.
                        "How can you?" she asked, referring to his saying that
                            he liked her better.
                        "Easily enough," he replied. "I know more
                            about you. I admire your frankness. You're lovelyaltogether so.
                            You are sweet beyond compare." He started to particularize.
                        "Don't, Eugene," she pleaded, putting her
                            finger over her lips. The color was leaving her cheeks. "Please
                            don't, I can't stand it."
                        "All right," he said, "I won't. But
                            you're altogether lovely. Let's go and sit in the
                            hammock."
                        "No. I'm going to get you your breakfast. It's
                            time you had something."
                        He took comfort in his privileges, for the others had all gone. Jotham,
                            Samuel, Benjamin and David were in the fields. Mrs. Blue was sewing and
                            Marietta had gone to see a girl friend up the road. Angela, as Ruby
                            before her, bestirred herself about the youth's meal, mixing
                            biscuit, broiling him some bacon, cleaning a basket of fresh dewberries
                            for him.
                        "I like your man," said her mother, coming out where
                            she was working. "He looks to be good-natured. But
                            don't spoil him. If you begin wrong you'll be
                            sorry."
                        "You spoiled papa, didn't you?" asked Angela
                            sagely, recalling all the little humorings her father had received.
                        "Your father has a keen sense of duty," retorted her
                            mother. "It didn't hurt him to be spoiled a
                            little."
                        "Maybe Eugene has," replied her daughter, turning her
                            slices of bacon.
                        Her mother smiled. All her daughters had married well. Perhaps Angela was
                            doing the best of all. Certainly her lover was the most distinguished.
                            Yet, "well to be careful," she suggested.
                        Angela thought. If her mother only knew, or her father. Dear Heaven! And
                            yet Eugene was altogether lovely. She wanted to wait on him, to spoil
                            him. She wished she could be with him every day from now onthat they
                            need not part any more.
                        "Oh, if he would only marry me," she sighed. It was the
                            one divine event which would complete her life.
                        Eugene would have liked to linger in this atmosphere indefinitely. Old
                            Jotham, he found, liked to talk to him. He took an interest in national
                            and international affairs, was aware  of
                            distinguished and peculiar personalities, seemed to follow world
                            currents everywhere. Eugene began to think of him as a distinguished
                            personality in himself, but old Jotham waved the suggestion blandly
                            aside.
                        "I'm a farmer," he said.
                            "I've seen my greatest success in raising good
                            children. My boys will do well, I know."
                        For the first time Eugene caught the sense of fatherhood, of what it
                            means to live again in your children, but only vaguely. He was too
                            young, too eager for a varied life, too lustful. So its true import was
                            lost for the time.
                        Sunday came and with it the necessity to leave. He had been here nine
                            days, really two days more than he had intended to stay. It was farewell
                            to Angela, who had come so close, so much in his grasp that she was like
                            a child in his hands. It was farewell, moreover, to an ideal scene, a
                            bit of bucolic poetry. When would he see again an old patriarch like
                            Jotham, clean, kindly, intelligent, standing upright amid his rows of
                            corn, proud to be a good father, not ashamed to be poor, not afraid to
                            be old or to die. Eugene had drawn so much from him. It was like sitting
                            at the feet of Isaiah. It was farewell to the lovely fields and the blue
                            hills, the long rows of trees down the lawn walk, the white and red and
                            blue flowers about the dooryard. He had slept so sweetly in his clean
                            room, he had listened so joyously to the voices of birds, the wood dove
                            and the poet thrush; he had heard the water in the Blue's
                            branch rippling over its clean pebbles. The pigs in the barnyard pen,
                            the horses, the cows, all had appealed to him. He thought of
                            Gray's "Elegy"of Goldsmith's
                            "Deserted Village" and "The
                            Traveller." This was something like the things those men had
                            loved.
                        He walked down the lawn with Angela, when the time came, repeating how
                            sorry he was to go. David had hitched up a little brown mare and was
                            waiting at the extreme end of the lawn.
                        "Oh, Sweet," he sighed. "I shall never be
                            happy until I have you."
                        "I will wait," sighed Angela, although she was wishing
                            to exclaim: "Oh, take me, take me!" When he was gone
                            she went about her duties mechanically, for it was as if all the fire
                            and joy had gone out of her life. Without this brilliant imagination of
                            his to illuminate things, life seemed dull.
                        And he rode, parting in his mind with each lovely thing as he wentthe
                            fields of wheat, the little stream, Lake Okoonee, the pretty Blue
                            farmhouse, all.
                        
                        He said to himself: "Nothing more lovely will ever come again.
                            Angela in my arms in her simple little parlor. Dear God! and there are
                            only seventy years of lifenot more than ten or fifteen of true youth,
                            all told."
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XX
                        
                            EUGENE carried home with him not only a curiously
                            deepened feeling for Angela, due to their altered and more intimate
                            relationship, but moreover a growing respect for her family. Old Jotham
                            was so impressive a figure of a man; his wife so kindly and earnest.
                            Their attitude toward their children and to each other was so sound, and
                            their whole relationship to society so respectable. Another observer
                            might have been repelled by the narrowness and frugality of their lives.
                            But Eugene had not known enough of luxury to be scornful of the material
                            simplicity of such existence. Here he had found character, poetry of
                            location, poetry of ambition, youth and happy prospects. These boys, so
                            sturdy and independent, were sure to make for themselves such places in
                            the world as they desired. Marietta, so charming a girl, could not but
                            make a good marriage. Samuel was doing well in his position with the
                            railroad company; Benjamin was studying to be a lawyer and David was to
                            be sent to West Point. He liked them for their familiar, sterling worth.
                            And they all treated him as the destined husband of Angela. By the end
                            of his stay he had become as much en rapport with the family as if he
                            had known it all his life.
                        Before going back to New York he had stopped in Chicago, where he had
                            seen Howe and Mathews grinding away at their old tasks, and then for a
                            few days in Alexandria, where he found his father busy about his old
                            affairs. Sewing machines were still being delivered by him in person,
                            and the long roads of the country were as briskly traversed by his light
                            machine-carrying buggy as in his earliest days. Eugene saw him now as
                            just a little futile, and yet he admired him, his patience, his
                            industry. The brisk sewing machine agent was considerably impressed by
                            his son's success, and was actually trying to take an interest
                            in art. One evening coming home from the post office he pointed out a
                            street scene in Alexandria as a subject for a painting. Eugene knew that
                            art had only been called to his father's attention by his own
                            efforts. He had noticed these things all his life, no doubt, but
                            attached no significance to them until he had seen his son's
                            work in the magazines. "If you ever paint country things, you
                            ought to paint Cook's Mill, over here by the falls.
                            That's one of the prettiest things I  know anywhere," he said to him one evening,
                            trying to make his son feel the interest he took. Eugene knew the place.
                            It was attractive, a little branch of bright water running at the base
                            of a forty foot wall of red sandstone and finally tumbling down a
                            fifteen foot declivity of grey mossy stones. It was close to a yellow
                            road which carried a good deal of traffic and was surrounded by a
                            company of trees which ornamented it and sheltered it on all sides.
                            Eugene had admired it in his youth as beautiful and peaceful.
                        "It is nice," he replied to his father.
                            "I'll take a look at it some day."
                        Witla senior felt set up. His son was doing him honor. Mrs. Witla, like
                            her husband, was showing the first notable traces of the flight of time.
                            The crow's-feet at the sides of her eyes were deeper, the
                            wrinkles in her forehead longer. At the sight of Eugene the first night
                            she fairly thrilled, for he was so well developed now, so self-reliant.
                            He had come through his experiences to a kind of poise which she
                            realized was manhood. Her boy, requiring her careful guidance, was gone.
                            This was someone who could guide her, tease her as a man would a
                            child.
                        "You've got so big I hardly know you," she
                            said, as he folded her in his arms.
                        "No, you're just getting little, ma. I used to think
                            I'd never get to the point where you couldn't shake
                            me, but that's all over, isn't it?"
                        "You never did need much shaking," she said fondly.
                        Myrtle, who had married Frank Bangs the preceding year, had gone with her
                            husband to live in Ottumwa, Iowa, where he had taken charge of a mill,
                            so Eugene did not see her, but he spent some little time with Sylvia,
                            now the mother of two children. Her husband was the same quiet,
                            conservative plodder Eugene had first noted him to be. Revisiting the
                            office of the Appeal he found that John Summers had
                            recently died. Otherwise things were as they had been. Jonas Lyle and
                            Caleb Williams were still in chargequite the same as before. Eugene was
                            glad when his time was up, and took the train back to Chicago with a
                            light heart.
                        Again as on his entrance to Chicago from the East, and on his return to
                            it from Blackwood, he was touched keenly by the remembrance of Ruby. She
                            had been so sweet to him. His opening art experiences had in a way been
                            centred about her. But in spite of all, he did not want to go out and
                            see her. Or did he? He asked himself this question with a pang of
                            sorrow,  for in a way he cared. He cared
                            for her as one might care for a girl in a play or book. She had the
                            quality of a tragedy about her. Sheher life, her surroundings, her
                            misfortune in loving him, constituted an artistic composition. He
                            thought he might be able to write a poem about it some time. He was able
                            to write rather charming verse which he kept to himself. He had the
                            knack of saying things in a simple way and with feelingmaking you see a
                            picture. The trouble with his verse was that it lacked as yet any real
                            nobility of thoughtwas not as final in understanding as it might have
                            been.
                        He did not go to see Ruby. The reason he assigned to himself was that it
                            would not be nice. She might not want him to now. She might be trying to
                            forget. And he had Angela. It really wasn't fair to her. But he
                            looked over toward the region in which she lived, as he travelled out of
                            the city eastward and wished that some of those lovely moments he had
                            spent with her might be lived again.
                        Back in New York, life seemed to promise a repetition of the preceding
                            year, with some minor modifications. In the fall Eugene went to live
                            with McHugh and Smite, the studio they had consisting of one big working
                            room and three bedrooms. They agreed that they could get along together,
                            and for a while it was good for them all. The criticism they furnished
                            each other was of real value. And they found it pleasant to dine
                            together, to walk, to see the exhibitions. They stimulated each other
                            with argument, each having a special point of view. It was much as it
                            had been with Howe and Mathews in Chicago.
                        During this winter Eugene made his first appearance in one of the leading
                            publications of the timeHarper's Magazine. He
                            had gone to the Art Director with some proofs of his previous work, and
                            had been told that it was admirable; if some suitable story turned up he
                            would be considered. Later a letter came asking him to call, and a
                            commission involving three pictures for $125 was given him. He worked
                            them out successfully with models and was complimented on the result.
                            His associates cheered him on also, for they really admired what he was
                            doing. He set out definitely to make
                                Scribner's and the Century, as
                            getting into those publications was called, and after a time he
                            succeeded in making an impression on their respective Art Directors,
                            though no notable commissions were given him. From one he secured a
                            poem, rather out of his mood to decorate, and from the other a short
                            story; but somehow he could not feel  that
                            either was a real opportunity. He wanted an appropriate subject or to
                            sell them some of his scenes.
                        Building up a paying reputation was slow work. Although he was being
                            mentioned here and there among artists, his name was anything but a
                            significant factor with the public or with the Art Directors. He was
                            still a promising beginnergrowing, but not yet arrived by a long
                            distance.
                        There was one editor who was inclined to see him at his real worth, but
                            had no money to offer. This was Richard Wheeler, editor of Craft, a rather hopeless magazine in a commercial sense, but
                            devoted sincerely enough to art. Wheeler was a blond young man of poetic
                            temperament, whose enthusiasm for Eugene's work made it easy
                            for them to become friends.
                        It was through Wheeler that he met that winter Miriam Finch and Christina
                            Channing, two women of radically different temperaments and professions,
                            who opened for Eugene two entirely new worlds.
                        Miriam Finch was a sculptor by professiona critic by temperament, with no
                            great capacity for emotion in herself but an intense appreciation of its
                            significance in others. To see her was to be immediately impressed with
                            a vital force in womanhood. She was a woman who had never had a real
                            youth or a real love affair, but clung to her ideal of both with a
                            passionate, almost fatuous, faith that they could still be brought to
                            pass. Wheeler had invited him to go round to her studio with him one
                            evening. He was interested to know what Eugene would think of her.
                            Miriam, already thirty-two when Eugene met hera tiny, brown haired,
                            brown eyed girl, with a slender, rather cat-like figure and a suavity of
                            address and manner which was artistic to the finger tips. She had none
                            of that budding beauty that is the glory of eighteen, but she was
                            altogether artistic and delightful. Her hair encircled her head in a
                            fluffy cloudy mass; her eyes moved quickly, with intense intelligence,
                            feeling, humor, sympathy. Her lips were sweetly modelled after the
                            pattern of a Cupid's bow and her smile was subtly ingratiating.
                            Her sallow complexion matched her brown hair and the drab velvet or
                            corduroy of her dress. There was a striking simplicity about the things
                            she wore which gave her a distinctive air. Her clothes were seldom
                            fashionable but always exceedingly becoming, for she saw herself as a
                            whole and arrayed herself as a decorative composition from head to foot,
                            with a sense of fitness in regard to self and life.
                        To such a nature as Eugene's, an intelligent, artistic,
                            self-regulating and self-poised human being was always intensely  magnetic and gratifying. He turned to the
                            capable person as naturally as a flower turns toward the light, finding
                            a joy in contemplating the completeness and sufficiency of such a being.
                            To have ideas of your own seemed to him a marvellous thing. To be able
                            definitely to formulate your thoughts and reach positive and satisfying
                            conclusions was a great and beautiful thing. From such personalities
                            Eugene drank admiringly until his thirst was satiatedthen he would turn
                            away. If his thirst for what they had to give returned, he might come
                            backnot otherwise.
                        Hitherto all his relationships with personages of this quality had been
                            confined to the male sex, for he had not known any women of distinction.
                            Beginning with Temple Boyle, instructor in the life class in Chicago,
                            and Vincent Beers, instructor in the illustration class, he had
                            encountered successively Jerry Mathews, Mitchell Goldfarb, Peter McHugh,
                            David Smite and Jotham Blue, all men of intense personal feeling and
                            convictions and men who had impressed him greatly. Now he was to
                            encounter for the first time some forceful, really exceptional women of
                            the same calibre. Stella Appleton, Margaret Duff, Ruby Kenny and Angela
                            Blue were charming girls in their way, but they did not think for
                            themselves. They were not organized, self-directed, self-controlled
                            personalities in the way that Miriam Finch was. She would have
                            recognized herself at once as being infinitely superior intellectually
                            and artistically to any or all of them, while entertaining at the same
                            time a sympathetic, appreciative understanding of their beauty, fitness,
                            equality of value in the social scheme. She was a student of life, a
                            critic of emotions and understanding, with keen appreciative
                            intelligence, and yet longing intensely for just what Stella and
                            Margaret and Ruby and even Angela hadyouth, beauty, interest for men,
                            the power or magnetism or charm of face and form to compel the impetuous
                            passion of a lover. She wanted to be loved by someone who could love
                            madly and beautifully, and this had never come to her.
                        Miss Finch's home, or rather studio, was with her family in East
                            Twenty-sixth Street, where she occupied a north room on the third floor,
                            but her presence in the bosom of that family did not prevent her from
                            attaining an individuality and an exclusiveness which was most
                            illuminating to Eugene. Her room was done in silver, brown and grey,
                            with a great wax-festooned candlestick fully five feet high standing in
                            one corner and a magnificent carved chest of early Flemish workmanship
                            standing in another. There was a brown combination writing desk and  book-shelf which was arrayed with some of
                            the most curious volumesPater's "Marius the
                            Epicurean," Daudet's "Wives of Men of
                            Genius," Richard Jefferies' "Story of My
                            Heart," Stevenson's "Aes Triplex,"
                            "The Kasidah" of Richard Burton, "The House
                            of Life" by Dante Gabriel Rossetti, "Also sprach
                            Zarathustra" by Friedrich Nietzsche. The fact that they were
                            here, after he had taken one look at the woman and the room, was to
                            Eugene sufficient proof that they were important. He handled them
                            curiously, reading odd paragraphs, nosing about, looking at pictures,
                            and making rapid notes in his mental notebook. This was someone worth
                            knowing, he felt that. He wanted to make a sufficiently favorable
                            impression to be permitted to know her better.
                        Miriam Finch was at once taken with Eugene. There was such an air of
                            vigor, inquiry, appreciation and understanding about him that she could
                            not help being impressed. He seemed somewhat like a lighted lamp casting
                            a soft, shaded, velvety glow. He went about her room, after his
                            introduction, looking at her pictures, her bronzes and clays, asking
                            after the creator of this, the painter of that, where a third thing came
                            from.
                        "I never heard of one of these books," he said frankly,
                            when he looked over the small, specially selected collection.
                        "There are some very interesting things here," she
                            volunteered, coming to his side. His simple confession appealed to her.
                            He was like a breath of fresh air. Richard Wheeler, who had brought him
                            in, made no objection to being neglected. He wanted her to enjoy his
                            find.
                        "You know," said Eugene, looking up from
                            Burton's "Kasidah" and into her brown eyes,
                            "New York gets me dizzy. It's so
                            wonderful!"
                        "Just how?" she asked.
                        "It's so compact of wonderful things. I saw a shop the
                            other day full of old jewelry and ornaments and quaint stones and
                            clothes, and O Heaven! I don't know what allmore things than I
                            had ever seen in my whole life before; and here in this quiet side
                            street and this unpretentious house I find this room. Nothing seems to
                            show on the outside; everything seems crowded to suffocation with luxury
                            or art value on the inside."
                        "Are you talking about this room?" she ventured.
                        "Why, yes," he replied.
                        "Take note, Mr. Wheeler," she called, over her shoulder
                            to her young editor friend. "This is the first time in my life
                            that I have been accused of possessing luxury. When you write me  up again I want you to give me credit for
                            luxury. I like it."
                        "I'll certainly do it," said Wheeler.
                        "Yes. 'Art values' too."
                        "Yes. 'Art values.' I have it," said
                            Wheeler.
                        Eugene smiled. He liked her vivacity. "I know what you
                            mean," she added. "I've felt the same thing
                            about Paris. You go into little unpretentious places there and come
                            across such wonderful thingsheaps and heaps of fine clothes, antiques,
                            jewels. Where was it I read such an interesting article about
                            that?"
                        "Not in Craft I hope?" ventured
                            Wheeler.
                        "No, I don't think so. Harper's
                                Bazaar, I believe."
                        "Oh, pshaw!" exclaimed Wheeler. Harper's Bazaar! What rot!"
                        "But that's just what you ought to have. Why
                            don't you do itright?"
                        "I will," he said.
                        Eugene went to the piano and turned over a pile of music. Again he came
                            across the unfamiliar, the strange, the obviously
                            distinguishedGrieg's "Arabian Dance";
                            "Es war ein Traum" by Lassen;
                            "Elegie" by Massenet; "Otidi" by
                            Davydoff; "Nymphs and Shepherds" by Purcellthings
                            whose very titles smacked of color and beauty. Gluck, Sgambati, Rossini,
                            Tschai-kowskythe Italian ScarlattiEugene marvelled at what he did not
                            know about music.
                        "Play something," he pleaded, and with a smile Miriam
                            stepped to the piano.
                        "Do you know 'Es war ein Traum'?" she
                            inquired.
                        "No," said he.
                        "That's lovely," put in Wheeler.
                            "Sing it!"
                        Eugene had thought that possibly she sang, but he was not prepared for
                            the burst of color that came with her voice. It was not a great voice,
                            but sweet and sympathetic, equal to the tasks she set herself. She
                            selected her music as she selected her clothesto suit her capacity. The
                            poetic, sympathetic reminiscence of the song struck home. Eugene was
                            delighted.
                        "Oh," he exclaimed, bringing his chair close to the
                            piano and looking into her face, "you sing
                            beautifully."
                        She gave him a glittering smile.
                        "Now I'll sing anything you want for you if you go on
                            like that."
                        "I'm crazy about music," he said; "I
                            don't know anything about it, but I like this sort of
                            thing."
                        
                        "You like the really good things. I know. So do I."
                        He felt flattered and grateful. They went through
                            "Otidi," "The Nightingale,"
                            "Elegie," "The Last Spring"music
                            Eugene had never heard before. But he knew at once that he was listening
                            to playing which represented a better intelligence, a keener selective
                            judgment, a finer artistic impulse than anyone he had ever known had
                            possessed. Ruby played and Angela, the latter rather well, but neither
                            had ever heard of these things he was sure. Ruby had only liked popular
                            things; Angela the standard melodiesbeautiful but familiar. Here was
                            someone who ignored popular tastewas in advance of it. In all her music
                            he had found nothing he knew. It grew on him as a significant fact. He
                            wanted to be nice to her, to have her like him. So he drew close and
                            smiled and she always smiled back. Like the others she liked his face,
                            his mouth, his eyes, his hair.
                        "He's charming," she thought, when he
                            eventually left; and his impression of her was of a woman who was
                            notably and significantly distinguished.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XXI
                        
                            BUT Miriam Finch's family, of which she
                            seemed so independent, had not been without its influence on her. This
                            family was of Middle West origin, and did not understand or sympathize
                            very much with the artistic temperament. Since her sixteenth year, when
                            Miriam had first begun to exhibit a definite striving toward the
                            artistic, her parents had guarded her jealously against what they
                            considered the corrupting atmosphere of the art world. Her mother had
                            accompanied her from Ohio to New York, and lived with her while she
                            studied art in the art school, chaperoning her everywhere. When it
                            became advisable, as she thought, for Miriam to go abroad, she went with
                            her. Miriam's artistic career was to be properly supervised.
                            When she lived in the Latin Quarter in Paris her mother was with her;
                            when she loitered in the atmosphere of the galleries and palaces in Rome
                            it was with her mother at her side. At Pompeii and Herculaneumin London
                            and in Berlinher mother, an iron-willed little woman at forty-five at
                            that time, was with her. She was convinced that she knew exactly what
                            was good for her daughter and had more or less made the girl accept her
                            theories. Later, Miriam's personal judgment began to diverge
                            slightly from that of her mother and then trouble began.
                        It was vague at first, hardly a definite, tangible thing in the
                            daughter's mind, but later it grew to be a definite feeling
                            that her life was being cramped. She had been warned off from
                            association with this person and that; had been shown the pitfalls that
                            surround the free, untrammelled life of the art studio. Marriage with
                            the average artist was not to be considered. Modelling from the nude,
                            particularly the nude of a man, was to her mother at first most
                            distressing. She insisted on being present and for a long time her
                            daughter thought that was all right. Finally the presence, the
                            viewpoint, the intellectual insistence of her mother, became too
                            irksome, and an open break followed. It was one of those family
                            tragedies which almost kill conservative parents. Mrs. Finch's
                            heart was practically broken.
                        The trouble with this break was that it came a little too late for
                            Miriam's happiness. In the stress of this insistent chaperonage
                            she had lost her youththe period during which she felt she should have
                            had her natural freedom. She had  lost the
                            interest of several men who in her nineteenth, twentieth and
                            twenty-first years had approached her longingly, but who could not stand
                            the criticism of her mother. At twenty-eight when the break came the
                            most delightful love period was over and she felt grieved and
                            resentful.
                        At that time she had insisted on a complete and radical change for
                            herself. She had managed to get, through one art dealer and another,
                            orders for some of her spirited clay figurines. There was a dancing
                            girl, a visualization of one of the moods of Carmencita, a celebrated
                            dancer of the period, which had caught the public fancyat least the
                            particular art dealer who was handling her work for her had managed to
                            sell some eighteen replicas of it at $175 each. Miss Finch's
                            share of this was $100, each. There was another little thing, a six-inch
                            bronze called "Sleep," which had sold some twenty
                            replicas at $150 each, and was still selling. "The
                            Wind," a figure crouching and huddling as if from cold, was
                            also selling. It looked as though she might be able to make from three
                            to four thousand dollars a year steadily.
                        She demanded of her mother at this time the right to a private studio, to
                            go and come when she pleased, to go about alone wherever she wished, to
                            have men and women come to her private apartment, and be entertained by
                            her in her own manner. She objected to supervision in any form, cast
                            aside criticism and declared roundly that she would lead her own life.
                            She realized sadly while she was doing it, however, that the best was
                            gonethat she had not had the wit or the stamina to do as she pleased at
                            the time she most wanted to do so. Now she would be almost automatically
                            conservative. She could not help it.
                        Eugene when he first met her felt something of this. He felt the subtlety
                            of her temperament, her philosophic conclusions, what might be called
                            her emotional disappointment. She was eager for life, which seemed to
                            him odd, for she appeared to have so much. By degrees he got it out of
                            her, for they came to be quite friendly and then he understood clearly
                            just how things were.
                        By the end of three months and before Christina Channing appeared, Eugene
                            had come to the sanest, cleanest understanding with Miss Finch that he
                            had yet reached with any woman. He had dropped into the habit of calling
                            there once and sometimes twice a week. He had learned to understand her
                            point of view, which was detachedly sthetic and rather removed from the
                            world of the sensuous. Her ideal of a lover had been fixed  to a certain extent by statues and poems
                            of Greek youthHylas, Adonis, Perseus, and by those men of the Middle
                            Ages painted by Millais, Burne-Jones, Dante Gabriel Rossetti and Ford
                            Madox Brown. She had hoped for a youth with a classic outline of face,
                            distinction of form, graciousness of demeanor and an appreciative
                            intellect. He must be manly but artistic. It was a rather high ideal,
                            not readily capable of attainment by a woman already turned thirty, but
                            nevertheless worth dreaming about.
                        Although she had surrounded herself with talented youth as much as
                            possibleboth young men and young womenshe had not come across the one. There had been a number of times when, for a
                            very little while, she had imagined she had found him, but had been
                            compelled to see her fancies fail. All the youths she knew had been
                            inclined to fall in love with girls younger than themselvessome to the
                            interesting maidens she had introduced them to. It is hard to witness an
                            ideal turning from yourself, its spiritual counterpart, and fixing
                            itself upon some mere fleshly vision of beauty which a few years will
                            cause to fade. Such had been her fate, however, and she was at times
                            inclined to despair. When Eugene appeared she had almost concluded that
                            love was not for her, and she did not flatter herself that he would fall
                            in love with her. Nevertheless she could not help but be interested in
                            him and look at times with a longing eye at his interesting face and
                            figure. It was so obvious that if he loved at all it would be
                            dramatically, in all probability, beautifully.
                        As time went on she took pains to be agreeable to him. He had, as it
                            were, the freedom of her room. She knew of exhibitions, personalities,
                            movementsin religion, art, science, government, literature. She was
                            inclined to take an interest in socialism, and believed in righting the
                            wrongs of the people. Eugene thought he did, but he was so keenly
                            interested in life as a spectacle that he hadn't as much time
                            to sympathize as he thought he ought to have. She took him to see
                            exhibitions, and to meet people, being rather proud of a boy with so
                            much talent; and she was pleased to find that he was so generally
                            acceptable. People, particularly writers, poets, musiciansbeginners in
                            every field, were inclined to remember him. He was an easy talker,
                            witty, quick to make himself at home and perfectly natural. He tried to
                            be accurate in his judgments of things, and fair, but he was young and
                            subject to strong prejudices. He appreciated her friendship, and did not
                            seek to make their relationship more intimate. He knew that only a
                            sincere proposal of marriage  could have
                            won her, and he did not care enough for her for that. He felt himself
                            bound to Angela and, curiously, he felt Miriam's age as a bar
                            between them. He admired her tremendously and was learning in part
                            through her what his ideal ought to be, but he was not drawn
                            sufficiently to want to make love to her.
                        But in Christina Channing, whom he met shortly afterward, he found a
                            woman of a more sensuous and lovable type, though hardly less artistic.
                            Christina Channing was a singer by profession, living also in New York
                            with her mother, but not, as Miss Finch had been, dominated by her so
                            thoroughly, although she was still at the age when her mother could and
                            did have considerable influence with her. She was twenty-seven years of
                            age and so far, had not yet attained the eminence which subsequently was
                            hers, though she was full of that buoyant self-confidence which makes
                            for eventual triumph. So far she had studied ardently under various
                            teachers, had had several love affairs, none serious enough to win her
                            away from her chosen profession, and had gone through the various
                            experiences of those who begin ignorantly to do something in art and
                            eventually reach experience and understanding of how the world is
                            organized and what they will have to do to succeed.
                        Although Miss Channing's artistic sense did not rise to that
                            definite artistic expression in her material surroundings which
                            characterized Miss Finch's studio atmosphere, it went much
                            farther in its expression of her joy in life. Her voice, a rich
                            contralto, deep, full, colorful, had a note of pathos and poignancy
                            which gave a touch of emotion to her gayest songs. She could play well
                            enough to accompany herself with delicacy and emphasis. She was at
                            present one of the soloists with the New York Symphony Orchestra, with
                            the privilege of accepting occasional outside engagements. The following
                            Fall she was preparing to make a final dash to Germany to see if she
                            could not get an engagement with a notable court opera company and so
                            pave the way for a New York success. She was already quite well known in
                            musical circles as a promising operatic candidate and her eventual
                            arrival would be not so much a question of talent as of luck.
                        While these two women fascinated Eugene for the time being, his feeling
                            for Angela continued unchanged; for though she suffered in an
                            intellectual or artistic comparison, he felt that she was richer
                            emotionally. There was a poignancy in her love letters, an intensity
                            about her personal feelings when in his presence which moved him in
                            spite of himselfan ache went with her which brought a memory of the
                            tales of Sappho and  Marguerite Gautier.
                            It occurred to him now that if he flung her aside it might go seriously
                            with her. He did not actually think of doing anything of the sort, but
                            he was realizing that there was a difference between her and
                            intellectual women like Miriam Finch. Besides that, there was a whole
                            constellation of society women swimming into his kenwomen whom he only
                            knew, as yet, through the newspapers and the smart weeklies like Town
                            Topics and Vogue, who were presenting still a third order of perfection.
                            Vaguely he was beginning to see that the world was immense and subtle,
                            and that there were many things to learn about women that he had never
                            dreamed of.
                        Christina Channing was a rival of Angela's in one sense, that of
                            bodily beauty. She had a tall perfectly rounded form, a lovely oval
                            face, a nut brown complexion with the rosy glow of health showing in
                            cheeks and lips, and a mass of blue black hair. Her great brown eyes
                            were lustrous and sympathetic.
                        Eugene met her through the good offices of Shotmeyer, who had been given
                            by some common friend in Boston a letter of introduction to her. He had
                            spoken of Eugene as being a very brilliant young artist and his friend,
                            and remarked that he would like to bring him up some evening to hear her
                            sing. Miss Channing acquiesced, for she had seen some of his drawings
                            and was struck by the poetic note in them. Shotmeyer, vain of his
                            notable acquaintanceswho in fact tolerated him for his amusing
                            gossipdescribed Miss Channing's voice to Eugene and asked him
                            if he did not want to call on her some evening.
                            "Delighted," said Eugene.
                        The appointment was made and together they went to Miss
                            Channing's suite in a superior Nineteenth Street boarding
                            house. Miss Channing received them, arrayed in a smooth, close fitting
                            dress of black velvet, touched with red. Eugene was reminded of the
                            first costume in which he had seen Ruby. He was dazzled. As for her, as
                            she told him afterward, she was conscious of a peculiar illogical
                            perturbation.
                        "When I put on my ribbon that night," she told him,
                            "I was going to put on a dark blue silk one I had just bought
                            and then I thought 'No, he'll like me better in a red
                            one.' Isn't that curious? I just felt as though you
                            were going to like meas though we might know each other better. That
                            young manwhat's his namedescribed you so accurately."
                            It was months afterward when she confessed that.
                        When Eugene entered it was with the grand air he had acquired since his
                            life had begun to broaden in the East. He took his relationship with
                            talent, particularly female talent, seriously.  He stood up very straight, walked with a noticeable
                            stride, drove an examining glance into the very soul of the person he
                            was looking at. He was quick to get impressions, especially of talent.
                            He could feel ability in another. When he looked at Miss Channing he
                            felt it like a strong wavethe vibrating wave of an intense
                            consciousness.
                        She greeted him, extending a soft white hand. They spoke of how they had
                            heard of each other. Eugene somehow made her feel his enthusiasm for her
                            art. "Music is the finer thing," he said, when she
                            spoke of his own gift.
                        Christina's dark brown eyes swept him from head to foot. He was
                            like his pictures, she thoughtand as good to look at.
                        He was introduced to her mother. They sat down, talking, and presently
                            Miss Channing sang"Che faro senza Euridice." Eugene
                            felt as if she were singing to him. Her cheeks were flushed and her lips
                            red.
                        Her mother remarked after she had finished, "You're in
                            splendid voice this evening, Christina."
                        "I feel particularly fit," she replied.
                        "A wonderful voiceit's like a big red poppy or a great
                            yellow orchid!" cried Eugene.
                        Christina thrilled. The description caught her fancy. It seemed true. She
                            felt something of that in the sounds to which she gave utterance.
                        "Please sing 'Who is Sylvia,'" he
                            begged a little later. She complied gladly.
                        "That was written for you," he said softly as she
                            ceased, for he had come close to the piano. "You image Sylvia
                            for me." Her cheeks colored warmly.
                        "Thanks," she nodded, and her eyes spoke too. She
                                welcomed his daring and she was glad to let him
                            know it.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XXII
                        
                            THE chief trouble with his present situation, and with
                            the entrance of these two women into his life, and it had begun to be a
                            serious one to him, was that he was not making money. He had been able
                            to earn about $1200 the first year; the second he made a little over two
                            thousand, and this third year he was possibly doing a little better. But
                            in view of what he saw around him and what he now knew of life, it was
                            nothing. New York presented a spectacle of material display such as he
                            had never known existed. The carriages on Fifth Avenue, the dinners at
                            the great hotels, the constant talk of society functions in the
                            newspapers, made his brain dizzy. He was inclined to idle about the
                            streets, to watch the handsomely dressed crowds, to consider the
                            evidences of show and refinement everywhere, and he came to the
                            conclusion that he was not living at all, but existing. Art as he had
                            first dreamed of it, art had seemed not only a road to distinction but
                            also to affluence. Now, as he studied those about him, he found that it
                            was not so. Artists were never tremendously rich, he learned. He
                            remembered reading in Balzac's story "Cousin
                            Betty," of a certain artist of great distinction who had been
                            allowed condescendingly by one of the rich families of Paris to marry a
                            daughter, but it was considered a great come down for her. He had hardly
                            been able to credit the idea at the time, so exalted was his notion of
                            the artist. But now he was beginning to see that it represented the
                            world's treatment of artists. There were in America a few who
                            were very popularmeretriciously so he thought in certain caseswho were
                            said to be earning from ten to fifteen thousand a year. How high would
                            that place them, he asked himself, in that world of real luxury which
                            was made up of the so-called four hundredthe people of
                            immense wealth and social position. He had read in the papers that it
                            took from fifteen to twenty-five thousand dollars a year to clothe a
                            dbutante. It was nothing uncommon, he heard, for a man to spend from
                            fifteen to twenty dollars on his dinner at the restaurant. The prices he
                            heard that tailors demandedthat dressmakers commanded, the display of
                            jewels and expensive garments at the opera, made the poor little income
                            of an artist look like nothing at all. Miss Finch was constantly telling
                            him of the show and swagger she met with in her circle of acquaintances,
                            for her tact and adaptability had  gained
                            her the friendship of a number of society people. Miss Channing, when he
                            came to know her better, made constant references to things she came in
                            contact withgreat singers or violinists paid $1000 a night, or the
                            tremendous salaries commanded by the successful opera stars. He began,
                            as he looked at his own meagre little income, to feel shabby again, and
                            run down, much as he had during those first days in Chicago. Why, art,
                            outside the fame, was nothing. It did not make for real living. It made
                            for a kind of mental blooming, which everybody recognized, but you could
                            be a poor, sick, hungry, shabby geniusyou actually could. Look at
                            Verlaine, who had recently died in Paris.
                        A part of this feeling was due to the opening of a golden age of luxury
                            in New York, and the effect the reiterated sight of it was having on
                            Eugene. Huge fortunes had been amassed in the preceding fifty years and
                            now there were thousands of residents in the great new city who were
                            worth anything from one to fifty and in some instances a hundred million
                            dollars. The metropolitan area, particularly Manhattan Island above
                            Fifty-ninth Street, was growing like a weed. Great hotels were being
                            erected in various parts of the so-called "white
                            light" district. There was beginning, just then, the first
                            organized attempt of capital to supply a new needthe modern sumptuous,
                            eight, ten and twelve story apartment house, which was to house the
                            world of newly rich middle class folk who were pouring into New York
                            from every direction. Money was being made in the West, the South and
                            the North, and as soon as those who were making it had sufficient to
                            permit them to live in luxury for the rest of their days they were
                            moving East, occupying these expensive apartments, crowding the great
                            hotels, patronizing the sumptuous restaurants, giving the city its air
                            of spendthrift luxury. All the things which catered to showy material
                            living were beginning to flourish tremendously, art and curio shops, rug
                            shops, decorative companies dealing with the old and the new in
                            hangings, furniture, objects of art; dealers in paintings, jewelry
                            stores, china and glassware housesanything and everything which goes to
                            make life comfortable and brilliant. Eugene, as he strolled about the
                            city, saw this, felt the change, realized that the drift was toward
                            greater population, greater luxury, greater beauty. His mind was full of
                            the necessity of living now. He was young now; he was vigorous now; he was keen now; in a few years he might not beseventy years was
                            the allotted span and twenty-five of his had already gone. How would it
                            be if he never came into this luxury, was never allowed to enter
                            society, was never  permitted to live as
                            wealth was now living! The thought hurt him. He felt an eager desire to
                            tear wealth and fame from the bosom of the world. Life must give him his
                            share. If it did not he would curse it to his dying day. So he felt when
                            he was approaching twenty-six.
                        The effect of Christina Channing's friendship for him was
                            particularly to emphasize this. She was not so much older than he, was
                            possessed of very much the same temperament, the same hopes and
                            aspirations, and she discerned almost as clearly as he did the current
                            of events. New York was to witness a golden age of luxury. It was
                            already passing into it. Those who rose to distinction in any field,
                            particularly music or the stage, were likely to share in a most notable
                            spectacle of luxury. Christina hoped to. She was sure she would. After a
                            few conversations with Eugene she was inclined to feel that he would. He
                            was so brilliant, so incisive.
                        "You have such a way with you," she said the second
                            time he came. "You are so commanding. You make me think you can
                            do almost anything you want to."
                        "Oh, no," he deprecated. "Not as bad as that.
                            I have just as much trouble as anyone getting what I want."
                        "Oh, but you will though. You have ideas."
                        It did not take these two long to reach an understanding. They confided
                            to each other their individual histories, with reservations, of course,
                            at first. Christina told him of her musical history, beginning at
                            Hagerstown, Maryland, and he went back to his earliest days in
                            Alexandria. They discussed the differences in parental control to which
                            they had been subject. He learned of her father's business,
                            which was that of oyster farming, and confessed on his part to being the
                            son of a sewing machine agent. They talked of small town influences,
                            early illusions, the different things they had tried to do. She had sung
                            in the local Methodist church, had once thought she would like to be a
                            milliner, had fallen in the hands of a teacher who tried to get her to
                            marry him and she had been on the verge of consenting. Something
                            happenedshe went away for the summer, or something of that sort, and
                            changed her mind.
                        After an evening at the theatre with her, a late supper one night and a
                            third call, to spend a quiet evening in her room, he took her by the
                            hand. She was standing by the piano and he was looking at her cheeks,
                            her large inquiring eyes, her smooth rounded neck and chin.
                        "You like me," he said suddenly propos of nothing save
                            the mutual attraction that was always running strong between them.
                        
                        Without hesitation she nodded her head, though the bright blood mounted
                            to her neck and cheeks.
                        "You are so lovely to me," he went on, "that
                            words are of no value. I can paint you. Or you can sing me what you are,
                            but mere words won't show it. I have been in love before, but
                            never with anyone like you."
                        "Are you in love?" she asked navely.
                        "What is this?" he asked and slipped his arms about
                            her, drawing her close.
                        She turned her head away, leaving her rosy cheek near his lips. He kissed
                            that, then her mouth and her neck. He held her chin and looked into her
                            eyes.
                        "Be careful," she said, "mamma may come
                            in."
                        "Hang mamma!" he laughed.
                        "She'll hang you if she sees you. Mamma would never
                            suspect me of anything like this."
                        "That shows how little mamma knows of her Christina,"
                            he answered.
                        "She knows enough at that," she confessed gaily.
                            "Oh, if we were only up in the mountains now," she
                            added.
                        "What mountains," he inquired curiously.
                        "The Blue Ridge. We have a bungalow up at Florizel. You must
                            come up when we go there next summer."
                        "Will mamma be there?" he asked.
                        "And papa," she laughed.
                        "And I suppose Cousin Annie."
                        "No, brother George will be."
                        "Nix for the bungalow," he replied, using a slang word
                            that had become immensely popular.
                        "Oh, but I know all the country round there. There are some
                            lovely walks and drives." She said this archly, navely,
                            suggestively, her bright face lit with an intelligence that seemed
                            perfection.
                        "Wellsuch being the case!" he smiled, "and
                            meanwhile"
                        "Oh, meanwhile you just have to wait. You see how things
                            are." She nodded her head towards an inside room where Mrs.
                            Channing was lying down with a slight headache. "Mamma
                            doesn't leave me very often."
                        Eugene did not know exactly how to take Christina. He had never
                            encountered this attitude before. Her directness, in connection with so
                            much talent, such real ability, rather took him by surprise. He did not
                            expect itdid not think she would confess affection for him; did not know
                            just what she meant by speaking in the way she did of the bungalow and
                            Florizel. He  was flattered, raised in his
                            own self-esteem. If such a beautiful, talented creature as this could
                            confess her love for him, what a personage he must be. And she was
                            thinking of freer conditionsjust what?
                        He did not want to press the matter too closely then and she was not
                            anxious to have him do soshe preferred to be enigmatic. But there was a
                            light of affection and admiration in her eye which made him very proud
                            and happy with things just as they were.
                        As she said, there was little chance for love-making under conditions
                            then existing. Her mother was with her most of the time. Christina
                            invited Eugene to come and hear her sing at the Philharmonic Concerts;
                            so once in a great ball-room at the Waldorf-Astoria and again in the
                            imposing auditorium of Carnegie Hall and a third time in the splendid
                            auditorium of the Arion Society, he had the pleasure of seeing her walk
                            briskly to the footlights, the great orchestra waiting, the audience
                            expectant, herself arch, assuredalmost defiant, he thought, and so
                            beautiful. When the great house thundered its applause he was basking in
                            one delicious memory of her.
                        "Last night she had her arms about my neck. Tonight when I call
                            and we are alone she will kiss me. That beautiful, distinguished
                            creature standing there bowing and smiling loves me and no one else. If
                            I were to ask her she would marry meif I were in a position and had the
                            means."
                        "If I were in a position" that thought cut him, for he
                            knew that he was not. He could not marry her. In reality she would not
                            have him knowing how little he madeor would she? He wondered.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XXIII
                        
                            TOWARDS the end of spring Eugene concluded he would
                            rather go up in the mountains near Christina's bungalow this
                            summer, than back to see Angela. The memory of that precious creature
                            was, under the stress and excitement of metropolitan life, becoming a
                            little tarnished. His recollections of her were as delightful as ever,
                            as redolent of beauty, but he was beginning to wonder. The smart crowd
                            in New York was composed of a different type. Angela was sweet and
                            lovely, but would she fit in?
                        Meanwhile Miriam Finch with her subtle eclecticism continued her
                            education of Eugene. She was as good as a school. He would sit and
                            listen to her descriptions of plays, her appreciation of books, her
                            summing up of current philosophies, and he would almost feel himself
                            growing. She knew so many people, could tell him where to go to see just
                            such and such an important thing. All the startling personalities, the
                            worth while preachers, the new actors, somehow she knew all about
                            them.
                        "Now, Eugene," she would exclaim on seeing him,
                            "you positively must go and see Haydon Boyd in 'The
                            Signet,'" or"see Elmina Deming in her new
                            dances," or"look at the pictures of Winslow Homer that
                            are being shown at Knoedler's."
                        She would explain with exactness why she wanted him to see them, what she
                            thought they would do for him. She frankly confessed to him that she
                            considered him a genius and always insisted on knowing what new thing he
                            was doing. When any work of his appeared and she liked it she was swift
                            to tell him. He almost felt as if he owned her room and herself, as if
                            all that she washer ideas, her friends, her experiencesbelonged to him.
                            He could go and draw on them by sitting at her feet or going with her
                            somewhere. When spring came she liked to walk with him, to listen to his
                            comments on nature and life.
                        "That's splendid!" she would exclaim.
                            "Now, why don't you write that?" or
                            "why don't you paint that?"
                        He showed her some of his poems once and she had made copies of them and
                            pasted them in a book of what she called exceptional things. So he was
                            coddled by her.
                        In another way Christina was equally nice. She was fond of telling Eugene
                            how much she thought of him, how nice she thought he was.
                            "You're so big and smarty," she said to him
                                 once, affectionately, pinioning his
                            arms and looking into his eyes. "I like the way you part your
                            hair, too! You're kind o' like an artist ought to
                            be!"
                        "That's the way to spoil me," he replied.
                            "Let me tell you how nice you are. Want to know how nice you
                            are?"
                        "Uh-uh," she smiled, shaking her head to mean
                            "no."
                        "Wait till we get to the mountains. I'll tell
                            you." He sealed her lips with his, holding her until her breath
                            was almost gone.
                        "Oh," she exclaimed; "you're
                            terrible. You're like steel."
                        "And you're like a big red rose. Kiss me!"
                        From Christina he learned all about the musical world and musical
                            personalities. He gained an insight into the different forms of music,
                            operatic, symphonic, instrumental. He learned of the different forms of
                            composition, the terminology, the mystery of the vocal cords, the
                            methods of training. He learned of the jealousies within the profession,
                            and what the best musical authorities thought of such and such
                            composers, or singers. He learned how difficult it was to gain a place
                            in the operatic world, how bitterly singers fought each other, how quick
                            the public was to desert a fading star. Christina took it all so
                            unconcernedly that he almost loved her for her courage. She was so wise
                            and so good natured.
                        "You have to give up a lot of things to be a good
                            artist," she said to Eugene one day. "You
                            can't have the ordinary life, and art too."
                        "Just what do you mean, Chrissy?" he asked, petting her
                            hand, for they were alone together.
                        "Why, you can't get married very well and have
                            children, and you can't do much in a social way. Oh, I know
                            they do get married, but sometimes I think it is a mistake. Most of the
                            singers I know don't do so very well tied down by
                            marriage."
                        "Don't you intend to get married?" asked
                            Eugene curiously.
                        "I don't know," she replied, realizing what he
                            was driving at. "I'd want to think about that. A woman
                            artist is in a dof a position anyway," using the letter d only
                            to indicate the word "devil." "She has so
                            many things to think about."
                        "For instance?"
                        "Oh, what people think and her family think, and I
                            don't know what all. They ought to get a new sex for
                            artistslike they have for worker bees."
                        Eugene smiled. He knew what she was driving at. But he did not know how
                            long she had been debating the problem of her virginity as conflicting
                            with her love of distinction in art.  She
                            was nearly sure she did not want to complicate her art life with
                            marriage. She was almost positive that success on the operatic
                            stageparticularly the great opportunity for the beginner abroadwas
                            complicated with some liaison. Some escaped, but it was not many. She
                            was wondering in her own mind whether she owed it to current morality to
                            remain absolutely pure. It was assumed generally that girls should
                            remain virtuous and marry, but this did not necessarily apply to
                            hershould it apply to the artistic temperament? Her mother and her
                            family troubled her. She was virtuous, but youth and desire had given
                            her some bitter moments. And here was Eugene to emphasize it.
                        "It is a difficult problem," he said sympathetically,
                            wondering what she would eventually do. He felt keenly that her attitude
                            in regard to marriage affected his relationship to her. Was she wedded
                            to her art at the expense of love?
                        "It's a big problem," she said and went to the
                            piano to sing.
                        He half suspected for a little while after this that she might be
                            contemplating some radical stepwhat, he did not care to say to himself,
                            but he was intensely interested in her problem. This peculiar freedom of
                            thought astonished himbroadened his horizon. He wondered what his sister
                            Myrtle would think of a girl discussing marriage in this waythe to be or
                            not to be of itwhat Sylvia? He wondered if many girls did that. Most of
                            the women he had known seemed to think more logically along these lines
                            than he did. He remembered asking Ruby once whether she didn't
                            think illicit love was wrong and hearing her reply, "No. Some
                            people thought it was wrong, but that didn't make it so to
                            her." Here was another girl with another theory.
                        They talked more of love, and he wondered why she wanted him to come up
                            to Florizel in the summer. She could not be thinkingno, she was too
                            conservative. He began to suspect, though, that she would not marry
                            himwould not marry anyone at present. She merely wanted to be loved for
                            awhile, no doubt.
                        May came and with it the end of Christina's concert work and
                            voice study so far as New York was concerned. She had been in and out of
                            the city all the winterto Pittsburgh, Buffalo, Chicago, St. Paul and now
                            after a winter's hard work retired to Hagerstown with her
                            mother for a few weeks prior to leaving for Florizel.
                        "You ought to come down here," she wrote to Eugene
                            early in June. "There is a sickle moon that shines in my garden
                            and the roses are in bloom. Oh, the odors are so sweet, and  the dew! Some of our windows open out
                            level with the grass and I sing! I sing!! I sing!!!"
                        He had a notion to run down but restrained himself, for she told him that
                            they were leaving in two weeks for the mountains. He had a set of
                            drawings to complete for a magazine for which they were in a hurry. So
                            he decided to wait till that was done.
                        In late June he went up to the Blue Ridge, in Southern Pennsylvania,
                            where Florizel was situated. He thought at first he would be invited to
                            stay at the Channing bungalow, but Christina warned him that it would be
                            safer and better for him to stay at one of the adjoining hotels. There
                            were several on the slope of adjacent hills at prices ranging from five
                            to ten dollars a day. Though this was high for Eugene he decided to go.
                            He wanted to be with this marvellous creatureto see just what she did
                            mean by wishing they were in the mountains together.
                        He had saved some eight hundred dollars, which was in a savings bank and
                            he withdrew three hundred for his little outing. He took Christina a
                            very handsomely bound copy of Villon, of whom she was fond, and several
                            volumes of new verse. Most of these, chosen according to his most recent
                            mood, were sad in their poetic texture; they all preached the
                            nothingness of life, its sadness, albeit the perfection of its
                            beauty.
                        At this time Eugene had quite reached the conclusion that there was no
                            hereafterthere was nothing save blind, dark force moving aimlesslywhere
                            formerly he had believed vaguely in a heaven and had speculated as to a
                            possible hell. His reading had led him through some main roads and some
                            odd by-paths of logic and philosophy. He was an omnivorous reader now
                            and a fairly logical thinker. He had already tackled Spencer's
                            "First Principles," which had literally torn him up by
                            the roots and set him adrift and from that had gone back to Marcus
                            Aurelius, Epictetus, Spinoza and Schopenhauermen who ripped out all his
                            private theories and made him wonder what life really was. He had walked
                            the streets for a long time after reading some of these things,
                            speculating on the play of forces, the decay of matter, the fact that
                            thought-forms had no more stability than cloud-forms. Philosophies came
                            and went, governments came and went, races arose and disappeared. He
                            walked into the great natural history museum of New York once to
                            discover enormous skeletons of prehistoric animalsthings said to have
                            lived two, three, five millions of years before his day and he marvelled
                            at the forces which produced  them, the
                            indifference, apparently, with which they had been allowed to die.
                            Nature seemed lavish of its types and utterly indifferent to the
                            persistence of anything. He came to the conclusion that he was nothing,
                            a mere shell, a sound, a leaf which had no general significance, and for
                            the time being it almost broke his heart. It tended to smash his
                            egotism, to tear away his intellectual pride. He wandered about dazed,
                            hurt, moody, like a lost child. But he was thinking persistently.
                        Then came Darwin, Huxley, Tyndall, Lubbocka whole string of British
                            thinkers who fortified the original conclusions of the others, but
                            showed him a beauty, a formality, a lavishness of form and idea in
                            nature's methods which fairly transfixed him. He was still
                            readingpoets, naturalists, essayists, but he was still gloomy. Life was
                            nothing save dark forces moving aimlessly.
                        The manner in which he applied this thinking to his life was
                            characteristic and individual. To think that beauty should blossom for a
                            little while and disappear for ever seemed sad. To think that his life
                            should endure but for seventy years and then be no more was terrible. He
                            and Angela were chance acquaintanceschemical affinitiesnever to meet
                            again in all time. He and Christina, he and Rubyhe and anyonea few
                            bright hours were all they could have together, and then would come the
                            great silence, dissolution, and he would never be anymore. It hurt him
                            to think of this, but it made him all the more eager to live, to be
                            loved while he was here. If he could only have a lovely girl's
                            arms to shut him in safely always!
                        It was while he was in this mood that he reached Florizel after a long
                            night's ride, and Christina who was a good deal of a
                            philosopher and thinker herself at times was quick to notice it. She was
                            waiting at the depot with a dainty little trap of her own to take him
                            for a drive.
                        The trap rolled out along the soft, yellow, dusty roads. The mountain dew
                            was still in the earth though and the dust was heavy with damp and not
                            flying. Green branches of trees hung low over them, charming vistas came
                            into view at every turn. Eugene kissed her, for there was no one to see,
                            twisting her head to kiss her lips at leisure.
                        "It's a blessed thing this horse is tame or
                            we'd be in for some accident. What makes you so
                            moody?" she said.
                        "I'm not moodyor am I? I've been thinking a
                            lot of things of lateof you principally."
                        "Do I make you sad?"
                        
                        "From one point of view, yes."
                        "And what is that, sir?" she asked with an assumption
                            of severity.
                        "You are so beautiful, so wonderful, and life is so
                            short."
                        "You have only fifty years to love me in," she laughed,
                            calculating his age. "Oh, Eugene, what a boy you are!Wait a
                            minute," she added after a pause, drawing the horse to a stop
                            under some trees. "Hold these," she said, offering him
                            the reins. He took them and she put her arms about his neck.
                            "Now, you silly," she exclaimed, "I love you,
                            love you, love you! There was never anyone quite like you. Will that
                            help you?" she smiled into his eyes.
                        "Yes," he answered, "but it isn't
                            enough. Seventy years isn't enough. Eternity isn't
                            enough of life as it is now."
                        "As it is now," she echoed and then took the reins, for
                            she felt what he felt, the need of persistent youth and persistent
                            beauty to keep it as it should be, and these things would not stay.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XXIV
                        
                            THE days spent in the mountains were seventeen
                            exactly, and during that time with Christina, Eugene reached a curious
                            exaltation of spirit different from anything he had experienced before.
                            In the first place he had never known a girl like Christina, so
                            beautiful, so perfect physically, so incisive mentally, so full of a
                            fine artistic perception. She was so quick to perceive exactly what he
                            meant. She was so suggestive to him in her own thoughts and feelings.
                            The mysteries of life employed her mind quite as fully as they did his.
                            She thought much of the subtlety of the human body, of its mysterious
                            emotions, of its conscious and subconscious activities and
                            relationships. The passions, the desires, the necessities of life, were
                            as a fine tapestry for her mind to contemplate. She had no time to sit
                            down and formulate her thoughts; she did not want to writebut she worked
                            out through her emotions and through her singing the beautiful and
                            pathetic things she felt. And she could talk in a fine, poetic
                            melancholy vein on occasion, though there was so much courage and
                            strength in her young blood that she was not afraid of any phase of life
                            or what nature might do with the little substance which she called
                            herself, when it should dissolve. "Time and change happeneth to
                            us all," she would quote to Eugene and he would gravely nod his
                            head.
                        The hotel where he stopped was more pretentious than any he had been
                            previously acquainted with. He had never had so much money in his life
                            before, nor had he ever felt called upon to spend it lavishly. The room
                            he took wasbecause of what Christina might thinkone of the best. He took
                            Christina's suggestion and invited her, her mother and her
                            brother to dinner on several occasions; the remainder of the family had
                            not arrived yet. In return he was invited to breakfast, to lunch and
                            dinner at the bungalow.
                        Christina showed on his arrival that she had planned to be with him alone
                            as much as possible, for she suggested that they make expeditions to
                            High Hill, to Bold Face, and The Chimneythree surrounding mountains. She
                            knew of good hotels at seven, ten, fifteen miles distance to which they
                            could go by train, or else they drive and return by moonlight. She had
                            selected two or three secluded spots in thickets and groves where  the trees gave way to little open spaces
                            of grass, and in these they would string a hammock, scatter their books
                            of verse about and sit down to enjoy the delights of talk and
                            love-making.
                        Under the influence of this companionship, under cloudless skies and in
                            the heart of the June weather, Christina finally yielded to an
                            arrangement which brought Eugene into a relationship which he had never
                            dreamed possible with her. They had progressed by degrees through all
                            the subtleties of courtship. They had come to discuss the nature of
                            passion and emotion, and had swept aside as negligible the conviction
                            that there was any inherent evil in the most intimate relationship. At
                            last Christina said frankly:
                        "I don't want to be married. It isn't for
                            menot until I've thoroughly succeeded, anyhow. I'd
                            rather waitIf I could just have you and singleness too."
                        "Why do you want to yield yourself to me?" Eugene asked
                            curiously.
                        "I don't know that I exactly want to. I could do with
                            just your loveif you were satisfied. It's you that I want to
                            make happy. I want to give you anything you want."
                        "Curious girl," observed her lover, smoothing her high
                            forehead with his hand. "I don't understand you,
                            Christina. I don't know how your mind works. Why should you?
                            You have everything to lose if worst came to worst."
                        "Oh, no," she smiled. "I'd marry you
                            then."
                        "But to do this out of hand, because you love me, because you
                            want me to be happy!" he paused.
                        "I don't understand it either, honey boy," she
                            offered, "I just do."
                        "But why, if you are willing to do this, you wouldn't
                            prefer to live with me, is what I don't
                            understand."
                        She took his face between her hands. "I think I understand you
                            better than you do yourself. I don't think you'd be
                            happy married. You might not always love me. I might not always love
                            you. You might come to regret. If we could be happy now you might reach
                            the point where you wouldn't care any more. Then you see I
                            wouldn't be remorseful thinking that we had never known
                            happiness."
                        "What logic!" he exclaimed. "Do you mean to
                            say you wouldn't care any more?"
                        "Oh, I'd care, but not in the same way. Don't
                            you see, Eugene, I would have the satisfaction of knowing that even if
                            we did separate you had had the best of me."
                        It seemed astounding to Eugene that she should talk in this  wayreason this way. What a curious,
                            sacrificial, fatalistic turn of mind. Could a young, beautiful, talented
                            girl really be like this? Would anybody on earth really believe it if
                            they knew? He looked at her and shook his head sorrowfully.
                        "To think that the quintessence of life should not stay with us
                            always." He sighed.
                        "No, honey boy," she replied, "you want too
                            much. You think you want it to stay, but you don't. You want it
                            to go. You wouldn't be satisfied to live with me always, I know
                            it. Take what the gods provide and have no regrets. Refuse to think; you
                            can, you know."
                        Eugene gathered her up in his arms. He kissed her over and over,
                            forgetting in her embrace all the loves he had ever known. She yielded
                            herself to him gladly, joyously, telling him over and over that it made
                            her happy.
                        "If you could only see how nice you are to me you
                            wouldn't wonder," she explained.
                        He concluded she was the most wonderful being he had ever known. No woman
                            had ever revealed herself to him so unselfishly in love. No woman he had
                            ever known appeared to have the courage and the insight to go thus
                            simply and directly to what she desired. To hear an artist of her power,
                            a girl of her beauty, discussing calmly whether she should sacrifice her
                            virtue to love; whether marriage in the customary form was good for her
                            art; whether she should take him now when they were young or bow to the
                            conventions and let youth pass, was enough to shock his still trammelled
                            soul. For after all, and despite his desire for personal freedom, his
                            intellectual doubts and mental exceptions, he still had a profound
                            reverence for a home such as that maintained by Jotham Blue and his
                            wife, and for its results in the form of normal, healthy, dutiful
                            children. Nature had no doubt attained to this standard through a long
                            series of difficulties and experiments, and she would not readily
                            relinquish it. Was it really necessary to abandon it entirely? Did he
                            want to see a world in which a woman would take him for a little while
                            as Christina was doing now, and then leave him? His experience here was
                            making him think, throwing his theories and ideas up in the air, making
                            a mess of all the notions he had ever formed about things. He racked his
                            brain over the intricacies of sex and life, sitting on the great
                            verandas of the hotel and wondering over and over just what the answer
                            was, and why he could not like other men be faithful to one woman and be
                            happy. He wondered whether this was really so, and whether he could not.
                            It seemed to  him then that he might. He
                            knew that he did not understand himself very clearly; that he had no
                            grasp on himself at ll as yethis tendencies, his
                            possibilities.
                        These days, under such halcyon conditions, made a profound
                                mpression on him. He was struck with the
                            perfection life could reach at odd moments. These great quiet hills, so
                            uniform in heir roundness, so green, so peaceful,
                            rested his soul. He nd Christina climbed, one day,
                            two thousand feet to a ledge which jutted out over a valley and
                            commanded what seemed to him the kingdoms and the powers of the
                            earthvast stretches of green land and subdivided fields, little cottage
                            settlements and towns, great hills that stood up like friendly brothers
                            to his one in the distance.
                        "See that man down in that yard," said Christina,
                            pointing o a speck of a being chopping wood in a
                            front space serving as  garden to a country cottage fully a
                            mile distant.
                        "Where?" asked Eugene.
                        "See where that red barn is, just this side of that clump of
                            trees?don't you see? there, where the cows are in that
                            field."
                        "I don't see any cows."
                        "Oh, Eugene, what's the matter with your
                            eyes?"
                        "Oh, now I see," he replied, squeezing her fingers.
                            "He looks like a cockroach, doesn't he?"
                        "Yes," she laughed.
                        "How wide the earth is and how small we are. Now think of that
                            speck with all his hopes and ambitionsall the machinery of his brain and
                            nerves and tell me whether any God can care. How can He,
                            Christina?"
                        "He can't care for any one particular speck much,
                            sweet. He might care for the idea of man or a race of men as a whole.
                            Still, I'm not sure, honey. All I know is that I'm
                            happy now."
                        "And I," he echoed.
                        Still they dug at this problem, the question of the origin of lifeits
                            why. The tremendous and wearisome age of the earth; the veritable storms
                            of birth and death that seemed to have raged at different periods, held
                            them in discussion.
                        "We can't solve it, Eugenio mio," she laughed.
                            "We might as well go home. Poor, dear mamma will be wondering
                            where her Christina is. You know I think she suspects that I'm
                            falling in love with you. She doesn't care how many men fall in
                            love with me, but if I show the least sign of a strong preference she
                            begins to worry."
                        "Have there been many preferences?" he inquired.
                        
                        "No, but don't ask. What difference does it make? Oh,
                            Eugene, what difference does it make? I love you now."
                        "I don't know what difference it makes," he
                            replied, "only there is an ache that goes with the thought of
                            previous experience. I can't tell you why it is. It just
                            is."
                        She looked thoughtfully away.
                        "Anyhow, no man ever was to me before what you have been.
                            Isn't that enough? Doesn't that speak?"
                        "Yes, yes, sweet, it does. Oh, yes it does. Forgive me. I
                            won't grieve any more."
                        "Don't, please," she said, "you hurt
                            me as much as you hurt yourself."
                        There were evenings when he sat on some one of the great verandas and
                            watched them trim and string the interspaces between the columns with
                            soft, glowing, Chinese lanterns, preparatory to the evening's
                            dancing. He loved to see the girls and men of the summer colony arrive,
                            the former treading the soft grass in filmy white gowns and white
                            slippers, the latter in white ducks and flannels, gaily chatting as they
                            came. Christina would come to these affairs with her mother and brother,
                            beautifully clad in white linen or lawns and laces, and he would be
                            beside himself with chagrin that he had not practised dancing to the
                            perfection of the art. He could dance now, but not like her brother or
                            scores of men he saw upon the waxen floor. It hurt him. At times he
                            would sit all alone after hi splendid evenings with
                            his love, dreaming of the beauty of it all. The stars would be as a
                            great wealth of diamond seed flung from the lavish hand of an aimless
                            sower. The hills would loom dark and tall. There was peace and quiet
                            everywhere.
                        "Why may not life be always like this?" he would ask,
                            and then he would answer himself out of his philosophy that it would
                            become deadly after awhile, as does all unchanging beauty. The call of
                            the soul is for motion, not peace. Peace after activity for a little
                            while, then activity again. So must it be. He understood that.
                        Just before he left for New York, Christina said to him:
                        "Now, when you see me again I will be Miss Channing of New York.
                            You will be Mr. Witla. We will almost forget that we were ever here
                            together. We will scarcely believe that we have seen what we have seen
                            and done what we ave done."
                        "But, Christina, you talk as though everything were over. It
                            isn't, is it?"
                        "We can't do anything like this in New York,"
                            she sighed. "I haven't time and you must
                            work."
                        
                        There was a shade of finality in her tone.
                        "Oh, Christina, don't talk so. I can't think
                            that way. Please don't.
                        "I won't," she said. "We'll
                            see. Wait till I get back."
                        He kissed her a dozen farewells and at the door held her close once
                            more.
                        "Will you forsake me?" he asked.
                        "No, you will forsake me. But remember, dear! Don't you
                            see? You've had all. Let me be your wood nymph. The rest is
                            commonplace."
                        He went back to his hotel with an ache in his heart, for he knew they had
                            gone through all they ever would. She had had her summer with him. She
                            had given him of herself fully. She wanted to be free to work now. He
                            could not understand it, but he knew it to be so.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XXV
                        
                            IT is a rather dreary thing to come back into the hot
                            city in the summer after a period of beauty in the mountains. The quiet
                            of the hills was in Eugene's mind, the glisten and babble of
                            mountain streams, the soar and poise of hawks and buzzards and eagles
                            sailing the crystal blue. He felt lonely and sick for awhile, out of
                            touch with work and with practical life generally. There were little
                            souvenirs of his recent happiness in the shape of letters and notes from
                            Christina, but he was full of the premonition of the end which had
                            troubled him on leaving.
                        He must write to Angela. He had not thought of her all the time he had
                            been gone. He had been in the habit of writing to her every third or
                            fourth day at least; while of late his letters had been less passionate
                            they had remained fairly regular. But now this sudden break comingit was
                            fully three weeksmade her think he must be ill, although she had begun
                            to feel also that he might be changing. His letters had grown steadily
                            less reminiscent of the joys they had experienced together and of the
                            happiness they were anticipating, and more inclined to deal with the
                            color and character of city life and of what he hoped to achieve. Angela
                            was inclined to excuse much of this on the grounds of the special effort
                            he was making to achieve distinction and a living income for themselves.
                            But it was hard to explain three weeks of silence without something
                            quite serious having happened.
                        Eugene understood this. He tried to explain it on the grounds of illness,
                            stating that he was now up and feeling much better. But when his
                            explanation came, it had the hollow ring of insincerity. Angela wondered
                            what the truth could be. Was he yielding to the temptation of that
                            looser life that all artists were supposed to lead? She wondered and
                            worried, for time was slipping away and he was setting no definite date
                            for their much discussed nuptials.
                        The trouble with Angela's position was that the delay involved
                            practically everything which was important in her life. She was five
                            years older than Eugene. She had long since lost that atmosphere of
                            youth and buoyancy which is so characteristic of a girl between eighteen
                            and twenty-two. Those few short years following, when the body of
                            maidenhood blooms like a rose  and there
                            is about it the freshness and color of all rich, new, lush life, were
                            behind her. Ahead was that persistent decline towards something harder,
                            shrewder and less beautiful. In the case of some persons the decline is
                            slow and the fragrance of youth lingers for years, the artifices of the
                            dressmaker, the chemist, and the jeweller being but little needed. In
                            others it is fast and no contrivance will stay the ravages of a
                            restless, eager, dissatisfied soul. Sometimes art combines with slowness
                            of decay to make a woman of almost perennial charm, loveliness of mind
                            matching loveliness of body, and taste and tact supplementing both.
                            Angela was fortunate in being slow to fade and she had a loveliness of
                            imagination and emotion to sustain her; but she had also a restless,
                            anxious disposition of mind which, if it had not been stayed by the
                            kindly color of her home life and by the fortunate or unfortunate
                            intervention of Eugene at a time when she considered her ideal of love
                            to have fairly passed out of the range of possibility, would already
                            have set on her face the signs of old maidenhood. She was not of the
                            newer order of femininity, eager to get out in the world and follow some
                            individual line of self-development and interest. Rather was she a home
                            woman wanting some one man to look after and love. The wonder and beauty
                            of her dream of happiness with Eugene now made the danger of its loss
                            and the possible compulsory continuance of a humdrum, underpaid,
                            backwoods existence, heart-sickening.
                        Meanwhile, as the summer passed, Eugene was casually enlarging his
                            acquaintance with women. MacHugh and Smite had gone back home for the
                            summer, and it was a relief from his loneliness to encounter one day in
                            an editorial office, Norma Whitmore, a dark, keen, temperamental and
                            moody but brilliant writer and editor who, like others before her, took
                            a fancy to Eugene. She was introduced to him by Jans Jansen, Art
                            Director of the paper, and after some light banter she offered to show
                            him her office.
                        She led the way to a little room no larger than six by eight where she
                            had her desk. Eugene noticed that she was lean and sallow, about his own
                            age or older, and brilliant and vivacious. Her hands took his attention
                            for they were thin, shapely and artistic. Her eyes burned with a
                            peculiar lustre and her loose-fitting clothes were draped artistically
                            about her. A conversation sprang up as to his work, which she knew and
                            admired, and he was invited to her apartment. He looked at Norma with an
                            unconsciously speculative eye.
                        Christina was out of the city, but the memory of her made  it impossible for him to write to Angela
                            in his old vein of devotion. Nevertheless he still thought of her as
                            charming. He thought that he ought to write more regularly. He thought
                            that he ought pretty soon to go back and marry her. He was approaching
                            the point where he could support her in a studio if they lived
                            economically. But he did not want to exactly.
                        He had known her now for three years. It was fully a year and a half
                            since he had seen her last. In the last year his letters had been less
                            and less about themselves and more and more about everything else. He
                            was finding the conventional love letters difficult. But he did not
                            permit himself to realize just what that meantto take careful stock of
                            his emotions. That would have compelled him to the painful course of
                            deciding that he could not marry her, and asking her to be released from
                            his promise. He did not want to do that. Instead he parleyed, held by
                            pity for her passing youth and her undeniable affection for him, by his
                            sense of the unfairness of having taken up so much of her time to the
                            exclusion of every other person who might have proposed to her, by
                            sorrow for the cruelty of her position in being left to explain to her
                            family that she had been jilted. He hated to hurt any person's
                            feelings. He did not want to be conscious of the grief of any person who
                            had come to suffering through him and he could not make them suffer very
                            well and not be conscious. He was too tender hearted. He had pledged
                            himself to Angela, giving her a ring, begging her to wait, writing her
                            fulsome letters of protest and desire. Now, after three years, to shame
                            her before her charming familyold Jotham, her mother, her sisters and
                            brothersit seemed a cruel thing to do, and he did not care to
                            contemplate it.
                        Angela, with her morbid, passionate, apprehensive nature, did not fail to
                            see disaster looming in the distance. She loved Eugene passionately and
                            the pent-up fires of her nature had been waiting all these years the
                            warrant to express their ardor which marriage alone could confer.
                            Eugene, by the charm of his manner and person, no less than by the
                            sensuous character of some of his moods and the subtleties and
                            refinements of his references to the ties of sex, had stirred her to
                            anticipate a perfect fruition of her dreams, and she was now eager for
                            that fruition almost to the point of being willing to sacrifice
                            virginity itself. The remembrance of the one significant scene between
                            her and Eugene tormented her. She felt that if his love was to terminate
                            in indifference now it would have been better to have yielded then. She
                            wished that she had not tried to save 
                            herself. Perhaps there would have been a child, and he would have been
                            true to her out of a sense of sympathy and duty. At least she would have
                            had that crowning glory of womanhood, ardent union with her lover, and
                            if worst had come to worst she could have died.
                        She thought of the quiet little lake near her home, its glassy bosom a
                            mirror to the sky, and how, in case of failure, she would have looked
                            lying on its sandy bottom, her pale hair diffused by some aimless motion
                            of the water, her eyes sealed by the end of consciousness, her hands
                            folded. Her fancy outran her daring. She would not have done this, but
                            she could dream about it, and it made her distress all the more
                            intense.
                        As time went by and Eugene's ardor did not revive, this problem
                            of her love became more harrassing and she began to wonder seriously
                            what she could do to win him back to her. He had expressed such a
                            violent desire for her on his last visit, had painted his love in such
                            glowing terms that she felt convinced he must love her still, though
                            absence and the excitements of city life had dimmed the memory of her
                            temporarily. She remembered a line in a comic opera which she and Eugene
                            had seen together: "Absence is the dark room in which lovers
                            develop negatives" and this seemed a case in point. If she
                            could get him back, if he could be near her again, his old fever would
                            develop and she would then find some way of making him take her,
                            perhaps. It did not occur to her quite clearly just how this could be
                            done at this time but some vague notion of self-immolation was already
                            stirring vaguely and disturbingly in her brain.
                        The trying and in a way disheartening conditions of her home went some
                            way to sustain this notion. Her sister Marietta was surrounded by a
                            score of suitors who were as eager for her love as a bee is for the
                            honey of a flower, and Angela could see that they were already looking
                            upon herself as an elderly chaperon. Her mother and father watched her
                            going about her work and grieved because so good a girl should be made
                            to suffer for want of a proper understanding. She could not conceal her
                            feelings entirely and they could see at times that she was unhappy. She
                            could see that they saw it. It was hard to have to explain to her
                            sisters and brothers, who occasionally asked after Eugene, that he was
                            doing all right, and never be able to say that he was coming for her
                            some day soon.
                        At first Marietta had been envious of her. She thought she would like to
                            win Eugene for herself, and only consideration for Angela's age
                            and the fact that she had not been  so
                            much sought after had deterred her. Now that Eugene was obviously
                            neglecting her, or at least delaying beyond any reasonable period, she
                            was deeply sorry. Once, before she had grown into the age of courtship,
                            she had said to Angela: "I'm going to be nice to the
                            men. You're too cold. You'll never get
                            married." And Angela had realized that it was not a matter of
                            "too cold," but an innate prejudice against most of
                            the types she met. And then the average man did not take to her. She
                            could not spur herself to pleasure in their company. It took a fire like
                            Eugene's to stir her mightily, and once having known that she
                            could brook no other. Marietta realized this too. Now because of these
                            three years she had cut herself off from other men, particularly the one
                            who had been most attentive to herfaithful Victor Dean. The one thing
                            that might save Angela from being completely ignored was a spirit of
                            romance which kept her young in looks as in feelings.
                        With the fear of desertion in her mind Angela began to hint in her
                            letters to Eugene that he should come back to see her, to express the
                            hope in her letters that their marriage need notbecause of any
                            difficulty of establishing himselfbe postponed much longer. She said to
                            him over and over that she could be happy with him in a cottage and that
                            she so longed to see him again. Eugene began to ask himself what he
                            wanted to do.
                        The fact that on the passional side Angela appealed to him more than any
                            woman he had ever known was a saving point in her favor at this
                            juncture. There was a note in her make-up which was stronger, deeper,
                            more suggestive of joy to come than anything he had found elsewhere. He
                            remembered keenly the wonderful days he had spent with herthe one
                            significant night when she begged him to save her against herself. All
                            the beauty of the season with which she was surrounded at that time; the
                            charm of her family, the odor of flowers and the shade of trees served
                            to make a setting for her delightfulness which still endured with him as
                            fresh as yesterday. Now, without having completed that romancea very
                            perfect flowercould he cast it aside?
                        At this time he was not entangled with any woman. Miriam Finch was too
                            conservative and intellectual; Norma Whitmore not attractive enough. As
                            for some other charming examples of femininity whom he had met here and
                            there, he had not been drawn to them or they to him. Emotionally he was
                            lonely and this for him was always a very susceptible mood. He could not
                            make up his mind that the end had come with Angela.
                        It so happened that Marietta, after watching her sister's  love affair some time, reached the
                            conclusion that she ought to try to help her. Angela was obviously
                            concealing a weariness of heart which was telling on her peace of mind
                            and her sweetness of disposition. She was unhappy and it grieved her
                            sister greatly. The latter loved her in a whole-hearted way, in spite of
                            the fact that their affections might possibly have clashed over Eugene,
                            and she thought once of writing in a sweet way and telling him how
                            things were. She thought he was good and kind, that he loved Angela,
                            that perhaps he was delaying as her sister said until he should have
                            sufficient means to marry well, and that if the right word were said now
                            he would cease chasing a phantom fortune long enough to realize that it
                            were better to take Angela while they were still young, than to wait
                            until they were so old that the romance of marriage would for them be
                            over. She revolved this in her mind a long time, picturing to herself
                            how sweet Angela really was, and finally nerved herself to pen the
                            following letter, which she sent. 
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            "Dear Eugene:
                                        
                                        You will be surprised to get a letter from me and I want
                                            you to promise me that you will never say anything about
                                            it to anyoneabove all never to Angela. Eugene, I have
                                            been watching her for a long time now and I know she is
                                            not happy. She is so desperately in love with you. I
                                            notice when a letter does not come promptly she is
                                            downcast and I can't help seeing that she is
                                            longing to have you here with her. Eugene, why
                                            don't you marry Angela? She is lovely and
                                            attractive now and she is as good as she is beautiful.
                                            She doesn't want to wait for a fine house and
                                            luxuriesno girl wants to do that, Eugene, when she loves
                                            as I know Angela does you. She would rather have you now
                                            when you are both young and can enjoy life than any fine
                                            house or nice things you might give her later. Now, I
                                            haven't talked to her at all, Eugenenever one
                                            wordand I know it would hurt her terribly if she thought
                                            I had written to you. She would never forgive me. But I
                                            can't help it. I can't bear to see her
                                            grieving and longing, and I know that when you know you
                                            will come and get her. Don't ever indicate in
                                            any way, please, that I wrote to you. Don't
                                            write to me unless you want to very much. I would rather
                                            you didn't. And tear up this letter. But do
                                            come for her soon, Eugene, please do. She wants you. And
                                            she will make you a perfectly wonderful wife for she is
                                            a wonderful girl. We all love her sopapa and mamma and
                                            all. I hope you will forgive me. I can't help
                                            it.
                                        
                                            "With love I am yours,
                                                  "MARIETTA."
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                        When Eugene received this letter he was surprised and astonished, but
                            also distressed for himself and Angela and Marietta and the whole
                            situation. The tragedy of this situation appealed to him perhaps as much
                            from the dramatic as from the  personal
                            point of view. Little Angela, with her yellow hair and classic face.
                            What a shame that they could not be together as she wished; as really,
                            in a way, he wished. She was beautifulno doubt of that. And there was a
                            charm about her which was as alluring as that of any girl barring the
                            intellectually exceptional. Her emotions in a way were deeper than those
                            of Miriam Finch and Christina Channing. She could not reason about
                            themthat was all. She just felt them. He saw all the phases of her
                            anguishthe probable attitude of her parents, her own feelings at being
                            looked at by them, the way her friends wondered. It was a shame, no
                            doubt of thata cruel situation. Perhaps he had better go back. He could
                            be happy with her. They could live in a studio and no doubt things would
                            work out all right. Had he better be cruel and not go? He hated to think
                            of it.
                        Anyhow he did not answer Marietta's letter, and he did tear it
                            up into a thousand bits, as she requested. "If Angela knew no
                            doubt she would feel wretched," he thought.
                        In the meanwhile Angela was thinking, and her brooding led her to the
                            conclusion that it might be advisable, if ever her lover came back, to
                            yield herself in order that he might feel compelled to take her. She was
                            no reasoner about life in any big sense. Her judgment of affairs was
                            more confused at this time than at a later period. She had no clear
                            conception of how foolish any trickery of this sort would be. She loved
                            Eugene, felt that she must have him, felt that she would be willing to
                            die rather than lose him and the thought of trickery came only as a last
                            resource. If he refused her she was determined on one thingthe lake. She
                            would quit this dreary world where love was crossed with despair in its
                            finest moments; she would forget it all. If only there were rest and
                            silence on the other side that would be enough.
                        The year moved on toward spring and because of some note of this,
                            reiterated in pathetic phrases, he came to feel that he must go back.
                            Marietta's letter preyed on his mind. The intensity of
                            Angela's attitude made him feel that something desperate would
                            happen. He could not, in cold blood, sit down and write her that he
                            would not see her any more. The impressions of Blackwood were too fresh
                            in his mindthe summer incense and green beauty of the world in which she
                            lived. He wrote in April that he would come again in June, and Angela
                            was beside herself with joy.
                        One of the things which helped Eugene to this conclusion was the fact
                            that Christina Channing was not coming back from  Europe that year. She had written a few times during the
                            winter, but very guardedly. A casual reader could not have drawn from
                            what she said that there had ever been anything between them. He had
                            written much more ardently, of course, but she had chosen to ignore his
                            eager references, making him feel by degrees that he was not to know
                            much of her in the future. They were going to be good friends, but not
                            necessarily lovers nor eventually husband and wife. It irritated him to
                            think she could be so calm about a thing which to him seemed so
                            important. It hurt his pride to think she could so deliberately throw
                            him over. Finally he began to be incensed, and then Angela's
                            fidelity appeared in a much finer light. There was a girl who would not
                            treat him so. She really loved him. She was faithful and true. So his
                            promised trip began to look much more attractive, and by June he was in
                            a fever to see her.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XXVI
                        
                            THE beautiful June weather arrived and with it Eugene
                            took his departure once more for Blackwood. He was in a peculiar mood,
                            for while he was anxious to see Angela again it was with the thought
                            that perhaps he was making a mistake. A notion of fatality was beginning
                            to run through his mind. Perhaps he was destined to take her! and yet,
                            could anything be more ridiculous? He could decide. He had deliberately
                            decided to go back thereor had he? He admitted to himself that his
                            passion was drawing himin fact he could not see that there was anything
                            much in love outside of passion. Desire! Wasn't that all that
                            pulled two people together? There was some little charm of personality
                            above that, but desire was the keynote. And if the physical attraction
                            were strong enough, wasn't that sufficient to hold two people
                            together? Did you really need so much more? It was logic based on youth,
                            enthusiasm and inexperience, but it was enough to hold him for the time
                            beingto soothe him. To Angela he was not drawn by any of the things
                            which drew him to Miriam Finch and Norma Whitmore, nor was there the
                            wonderful art of Christina Channing. Still he was going.
                        His interest in Norma Whitmore had increased greatly as the winter
                            passed. In this woman he had found an intellect as broadening and
                            refining as any he had encountered. Her taste for the exceptional in
                            literature and art was as great as that of anyone he had ever known and
                            it was just as individual. She ran to impressive realistic fiction in
                            literature and to the kind of fresh-from-the-soil art which Eugene
                            represented. Her sense of just how big and fresh was the thing he was
                            trying to do was very encouraging, and she was carrying the word about
                            town to all her friends that he was doing it. She had even gone so far
                            as to speak to two different art dealers asking them why they had not
                            looked into what seemed to her his perfectly wonderful drawings.
                        "Why, they're astonishing in their newness,"
                            she told Eberhard Zang, one of the important picture dealers on Fifth
                            Avenue. She knew him from having gone there to borrow pictures for
                            reproduction.
                        "Witla! Witla!" he commented in his conservative German
                                 way, rubbing his chin, "I
                            doand remember seeing anything by him."
                        "Of course you don't," replied Norma
                            persistently. "He's new, I tell you. He
                            hasn't been here so very long. You get Truth
                            for some week in last monthI forget which oneand see that picture of
                            Greeley Square. It will show you what I mean."
                        "Witla! Witla!" repeated Zang, much as a parrot might
                            fix a sound in its memory. "Tell him to come in here and see me
                            some day. I should like to see some of his things."
                        "I will," said Norma, genially. She was anxious to have
                            Eugene go, but he was more anxious to get a lot of things done before he
                            had an exhibition. He did not want to risk an impression with anything
                            short of a rather extensive series. And his collection of views was not
                            complete at that time. Besides he had a much more significant art dealer
                            in mind.
                        He and Norma had reached the point by this time where they were like
                            brother and sister, or better yet, two good men friends. He would slip
                            his arm about her waist when entering her rooms and was free to hold her
                            hands or pat her on the arm or shoulder. There was nothing more than
                            strong good feeling on his part, while on hers a burning affection might
                            have been inspired, but his genial, brotherly attitude convinced her
                            that it was useless. He had never told her of any of his other women
                            friends and he was wondering as he rode west how she and Miriam Finch
                            would take his marriage with Angela, supposing that he ever did marry
                            her. As for Christina Channing, he did not want to thinkreally did not
                            dare to think of her very much. Some sense of lost beauty came to him
                            out of that experiencea touch of memory that had a pang in it.
                        Chicago in June was just a little dreary to him with its hurry of life,
                            its breath of past experience, the Art Institute, the Daily
                                Globe building, the street and house in which Ruby had lived.
                            He wondered about her (as he had before) the moment he neared the city,
                            and had a strong desire to go and look her up. Then he visited the Globe offices, but Mathews had gone. Genial, cheerful
                            Jerry had moved to Philadelphia recently, taking a position on the
                            Philadelphia North American, leaving Howe alone, more
                            finicky and picayune than ever. Goldfarb, of course, was gone and Eugene
                            felt out of it. He was glad to take the train for Blackwood, for he felt
                            lonesome. He left the city with quite an ache for old times in his heart
                            and  the feeling that life was a jumble of
                            meaningless, strange and pathetic things.
                        "To think that we should grow old," he pondered,
                            "that things that were as real as these things were to me,
                            should become mere memories."
                        The time just before he reached Blackwood was one of great emotional
                            stress for Angela. Now she was to learn whether he really loved her as
                            much as he had. She was to feel the joy of his presence, the subtle
                            influence of his attitude. She was to find whether she could hold him or
                            not. Marietta, who on hearing that he was coming, had rather plumed
                            herself that her letter had had something to do with it, was afraid that
                            her sister would not make good use of this opportune occasion. She was
                            anxious that Angela should look her best, and made suggestions as to
                            things she might wear, games she might play (they had installed tennis
                            and croquet as part of the home pleasures since he had been there last)
                            and places they might go to. Marietta was convinced that Angela was not
                            artful enoughnot sufficiently subtle in her presentation of her charms.
                            He could be made to feel very keen about her if she dressed right and
                            showed herself to the best advantage. Marietta herself intended to keep
                            out of the way as much as possible when Eugene arrived, and to appear at
                            great disadvantage in the matter of dress and appearance when seen; for
                            she had become a perfect beauty and was a breaker of hearts without
                            conscious effort.
                        "You know that string of coral beads I have, Angel
                            Face," she asked Angela one morning some ten days before Eugene
                            arrived. "Wear them with that tan linen dress of mine and your
                            tan shoes some day for Eugene. You'll look stunning in those
                            things and he'll like you. Why don't you take the new
                            buggy and drive over to Blackwood to meet him? That's it. You
                            must meet him."
                        "Oh, I don't think I want to, Babyette," she
                            replied. She was afraid of this first impression. She did not want to
                            appear to run after him. Babyette was a nickname which had been applied
                            to Marietta in childhood and had never been dropped.
                        "Oh, pshaw, Angel Face, don't be so backward!
                            You're the shyest thing I know. Why that's nothing.
                            He'll like you all the better for treating him just a little
                            smartly. You do that now, will you?"
                        "I can't," replied Angela. "I
                            can't do it that way. Let him come over here first; then
                            I'll drive him over some afternoon."
                        
                        "Oh, Angel Face! Well, anyhow, when he comes you must wear that
                            little rose flowered house dress and put a wreath of green leaves in
                            your hair."
                        "Oh, I won't do anything of the sort,
                            Babyette," exclaimed Angela.
                        "Yes, you will," replied her sister. "Now you
                            just have to do what I tell you for once. That dress looks beautiful on
                            you and the wreath will make it perfect."
                        "It isn't the dress. I know that's nice.
                            It's the wreath."
                        Marietta was incensed by this bit of pointless reserve.
                        "Oh, Angela," she exclaimed, "don't
                            be so silly. You're older than I am, but I know more about men
                            in a minute than you'll ever know. Don't you want him
                            to like you? You'll have to be more daringgoodness! Lots of
                            girls would go a lot farther than that."
                        She caught her sister about the waist and looked into her eyes.
                            "Now you've got to wear it," she added
                            finally, and Angela understood that Marietta wanted her to entice Eugene
                            by any means in her power to make him declare himself finally and set a
                            definite date or take her back to New York with him.
                        There were other conversations in which a trip to the lake was suggested,
                            games of tennis, with Angela wearing her white tennis suit and shoes, a
                            country dance which might be got upthere were rumors of one to be given
                            in the new barn of a farmer some seven miles away. Marietta was
                            determined that Angela should appear youthful, gay, active, just the
                            things which she knew instinctively would fascinate Eugene.
                        Finally Eugene came. He arrived at Blackwood at noon. Despite her
                            objections Angela met him, dressed smartly and, as urged by Marietta,
                            carrying herself with an air. She hoped to impress Eugene with a sense
                            of independence, but when she saw him stepping down from the train in
                            belted corduroy travelling suit with a grey English travelling cap,
                            carrying a green leather bag of the latest design, her heart misgave
                            her. He was so worldly now, so experienced. You could see by his manner
                            that this country place meant little or nothing to him. He had tasted of
                            the world at large.
                        Angela had stayed in her buggy at the end of the depot platform and she
                            soon caught Eugene's eye and waved to him. He came briskly
                            forward.
                        "Why, sweet," he exclaimed, "here you are. How
                            nice you look!" He jumped up beside her, surveying her
                            critically and she could feel his examining glance. After the first
                            pleasant impression  he sensed the
                            difference between his new world and hers and was a little depressed by
                            it. She was a little older, no doubt of that. You cannot hope and yearn
                            and worry for three years and not show it. And yet she was fine and
                            tender and sympathetic and emotional. He felt all this. It hurt him a
                            little for her sake and his too.
                        "Well, how have you been?" he asked. They were in the
                            confines of the village and no demonstration could be made. Until the
                            quiet of a country road could be reached all had to be formal.
                        "Oh, just the same, Eugene, longing to see you."
                        She looked into his eyes and he felt the impact of that emotional force
                            which governed her when she was near him. There was something in the
                            chemistry of her being which roused to blazing the ordinarily dormant
                            forces of his sympathies. She tried to conceal her real feelingto
                            pretend gaiety and enthusiasm, but her eyes betrayed her. Something
                            roused in him now at her looka combined sense of emotion and desire.
                        "It's so fine to be out in the country again,"
                            he said, pressing her hand, for he was letting her drive.
                            "After the city, to see you and the green fields!" He
                            looked about at the little one-storey cottages, each with a small plot
                            of grass, a few trees, a neat confining fence. After New York and
                            Chicago, a village like this was quaint.
                        "Do you love me just as much as ever?"
                        She nodded her head. They reached a strip of yellow road, he asking after
                            her father, her mother, her brothers and sisters, and when he saw that
                            they were unobserved he slipped his arm about her and drew her head to
                            him.
                        "Now we can," he said.
                        She felt the force of his desire but she missed that note of adoration
                            which had seemed to characterize his first lovemaking. How true it was
                            he had changed! He must have. The city had made her seem less
                            significant. It hurt her to think that life should treat her so. But
                            perhaps she could win him backcould hold him anyhow.
                        They drove over toward Okoonee, a little crossroads settlement, near a
                            small lake of the same name, a place which was close to the Blue house,
                            and which the Blue's were wont to speak of as
                            "home." On the way Eugene learned that her youngest
                            brother David was a cadet at West Point now and doing splendidly. Samuel
                            had become western freight agent of the Great Northern and was on the
                            way to desirable promotion. Benjamin had completed his law studies and
                            was practising  in Racine. He was
                            interested in politics and was going to run for the state legislature.
                            Marietta was still the gay care-free girl she had always been, not at
                            all inclined to choose yet among her many anxious suitors. Eugene
                            thought of her letter to himwondered if she would look her thoughts into
                            his eyes when he saw her.
                        "Oh, Marietta," Angela replied when Eugene asked after
                            her, "she's just as dangerous as ever. She makes all
                            the men make love to her."
                        Eugene smiled. Marietta was always a pleasing thought to him. He wished
                            for the moment that it was Marietta instead of Angela that he was coming
                            to see.
                        She was as shrewd as she was kind in this instance. Her appearance on
                            meeting Eugene was purposely indifferent and her attitude anything but
                            coaxing and gay. At the same time she suffered a genuine pang of
                            feeling, for Eugene appealed to her. If it were anybody but Angela, she
                            thought, how she would dress and how quickly she would be coquetting
                            with him. Then his love would be won by her and she felt that she could
                            hold it. She had great confidence in her ability to keep any man, and
                            Eugene was a man she would have delighted to hold. As it was she kept
                            out of his way, took sly glances at him here and there, wondered if
                            Angela would truly win him. She was so anxious for Angela's
                            sake. Never, never, she told herself, would she cross her
                            sister's path.
                        At the Blue homestead he was received as cordially as before. After an
                            hour it quite brought back the feeling of three years before. These open
                            fields, this old house and its lovely lawn, all served to awaken the
                            most poignant sensations. One of Marietta's beaux, over from
                            Waukesha, appeared after Eugene had greeted Mrs. Blue and Marietta, and
                            the latter persuaded him to play a game of tennis with Angela. She
                            invited Eugene to make it a four with her, but not knowing how he
                            refused.
                        Angela changed to her tennis suit and Eugene opened his eyes to her
                            charms. She was very attractive on the court, quick, flushed, laughing.
                            And when she laughed she had a charming way of showing her even, small,
                            white teeth. She quite awakened a feeling of interestshe looked so
                            dainty and frail. When he saw her afterward in the dark, quiet parlor,
                            he gathered her to his heart with much of the old ardour. She felt the
                            quick change of feeling. Marietta was right. Eugene loved gaiety and
                            color. Although on the way home she had despaired this was much more
                            promising.
                        Eugene rarely entered on anything half heartedly. If interested  at all he was greatly interested. He
                            could so yield himself to the glamour of a situation as to come finally
                            to believe that he was something which he was not. Thus, now he was
                            beginning to accept this situation as Angela and Marietta wished he
                            should, and to see her in somewhat the old light. He overlooked things
                            which in his New York studio, surrounded by the influences which there
                            modified his judgment, he would have seen. Angela was not young enough
                            for him. She was not liberal in her views. She was charming, no doubt of
                            that, but he could not bring her to an understanding of his casual
                            acceptance of life. She knew nothing of his real disposition and he did
                            not tell her. He played the part of a seemingly single-minded Romeo, and
                            as such he was from a woman's point of view beautiful to
                            contemplate. In his own mind he was coming to see that he was fickle but
                            he still did not want to admit it to himself.
                        There was a night of stars after an evening of June perfection. At five
                            old Jotham came in from the fields, as dignified and patriarchal as
                            ever. He greeted Eugene with a hearty handshake, for he admired him.
                            "I see some of your work now and then," he said,
                            "in these monthly magazines. It's fine.
                            There's a young minister down here near the lake
                            that's very anxious to meet you. He likes to get hold of
                            anything you do, and I always send the books down as soon as Angela gets
                            through with them."
                        He used the words books and magazines interchangeably, and spoke as
                            though they were not much more important to him than the leaves of the
                            trees, as indeed, they were not. To a mind used to contemplating the
                            succession of crops and seasons, all life with its multitudinous
                            interplay of shapes and forms seemed passing shadows. Even men were like
                            leaves that fall.
                        Eugene was drawn to old Jotham as a filing to a magnet. His was just the
                            type of mind that appealed to him, and Angela gained by the radiated
                            glory of her father. If he was so wonderful she must be something above
                            the average of womanhood. Such a man could not help but produce
                            exceptional children.
                        Left alone together it was hardly possible for Angela and Eugene not to
                            renew the old relationship on the old basis. Having gone as far as he
                            had the first time it was natural that he should wish to go as far again
                            and further. After dinner, when she turned to him from her room, arrayed
                            in a soft evening dress of clinging texturesomewhat low in the neck by
                            request of Marietta, who had helped her to dressEugene was conscious  of her emotional perturbation. He himself
                            was distraught, for he did not know what he would dohow far he would
                            dare to trust himself. He was always troubled when dealing with his
                            physical passion, for it was a raging lion at times. It seemed to
                            overcome him quite as a drug might or a soporific fume. He would
                            mentally resolve to control himself, but unless he instantly fled there
                            was no hope, and he did not seem able to run away. He would linger and
                            parley, and in a few moments it was master and he was following its
                            behest blindly, desperately, to the point almost of exposure and
                            destruction.
                        Tonight when Angela came back he was cogitating, wondering what it might
                            mean. Should he? Would he marry her? Could he escape? They sat down to
                            talk, but presently he drew her to him. It was the old storymoment after
                            moment of increasing feeling. Presently she, from the excess of longing
                            and waiting was lost to all sense of consideration. And he
                        "I shall have to go away, Eugene," she pleaded, when he
                            carried her recklessly into his room, "if anything happens. I
                            cannot stay here."
                        "Don't talk," he said. "You can come
                            to me."
                        "You mean it, Eugene, surely?" she begged.
                        "As sure as I'm holding you here," he
                            replied.
                        At midnight Angela lifted frightened, wondering, doubting eyes, feeling
                            herself the most depraved creature. Two pictures were in her mind
                            alternately and with pendulum-like reiteration. One was a composite of a
                            marriage altar and a charming New York studio with friends coming in to
                            see them much as he had often described to her. The other was of the
                            still blue waters of Okoonee with herself lying there pale and still.
                            Yes, she would die if he did not marry her now. Life would not be worth
                            while. She would not force him. She would slip out some night when it
                            was too late and all hope had been abandonedwhen exposure was nearand
                            the next day they would find her.
                        Little Mariettahow she would cry. And old Jothamshe could see him, but he
                            would never be really sure of the truth. And her mother. "Oh
                            God in heaven," she thought, "how hard life is! How
                            terrible it can be."
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XXVII
                        
                            THE atmosphere of the house after this night seemed
                            charged with reproach to Eugene, although it took on no semblance of
                            reality in either look or word. When he awoke in the morning and looked
                            through the half closed shutters to the green world outside he felt a
                            sense of freshness and of shame. It was cruel to come into such a home
                            as this and do a thing as mean as he had done. After all, philosophy or
                            no philosophy, didn't a fine old citizen like Jotham, honest,
                            upright, genuine in his moral point of view and his observance of the
                            golden rule, didn't he deserve better from a man whom he so
                            sincerely admired? Jotham had been so nice to him. Their conversations
                            together were so kindly and sympathetic. Eugene felt that Jotham
                            believed him to be an honest man. He knew he had that appearance. He was
                            frank, genial, considerate, not willing to condemn anyonebut this sex
                            questionthat was where he was weak. And was not the whole world keyed to
                            that? Did not the decencies and the sanities of life depend on right
                            moral conduct? Was not the world dependent on how the homes were run?
                            How could anyone be good if his mother and father had not been good
                            before him? How could the children of the world expect to be anything if
                            people rushed here and there holding illicit relations? Take his sister
                            Myrtle, nowwould he have wanted her rifled in this manner? In the face
                            of this question he was not ready to say exactly what he wanted or was
                            willing to countenance. Myrtle was a free agent, as was every other
                            girl. She could do as she pleased. It might not please him exactly buthe
                            went round and round from one problem to another, trying to untie this
                            Gordian knot. One thing, this home had appeared sweet and clean when he
                            came into it; now it was just a little tarnished, and by him! Or was it?
                            His mind was always asking this question. There was nothing that he was
                            actually accepting as true any more. He was going round in a ring asking
                            questions of this proposition and that. Are you true? And are you true?
                            And are you true? And all the while he was apparently not getting
                            anywhere. It puzzled him, this life. Sometimes it shamed him. This deed
                            shamed him. And he asked himself whether he was wrong to be ashamed or
                            not. Perhaps he was just foolish. Was not life made for living, not
                            worrying? He had not created his passions and desires.
                        
                        He threw open the shutters and there was the bright day. Everything was
                            so green outside, the flowers in bloom, the trees casting a cool, lovely
                            shade, the birds twittering. Bees were humming. He could smell the
                            lilacs. "Dear God," he exclaimed, throwing his arms
                            above his head, "How lovely life is! How beautiful!
                            Oh!" He drew in a deep breath of the flower and privet laden
                            air. If only he could live always like thisfor ever and ever.
                        When he had sponged himself with cold water and dressed, putting on a
                            soft neglige shirt with turn-down collar and dark flowing tie, he issued
                            forth clean and fresh. Angela was there to greet him. Her face was pale
                            but she looked intensely sweet because of her sadness.
                        "There, there," he said, touching her chin,
                            "less of that now!"
                        "I told them that I had a headache," she said.
                            "So I have. Do you understand?"
                        "I understand your headache," he laughed. "But
                            everything is all rightvery much all right. Isn't this a lovely
                            day!"
                        "Beautiful," replied Angela sadly.
                        "Cheer up," he insisted. "Don't
                            worry. Everything is coming out fine." He walked to the window
                            and stared out.
                        "I'll have your breakfast ready in a minute,"
                            she said, and, pressing his hand, left him.
                        Eugene went out to the hammock. He was so deliciously contented and
                            joyous now that he saw the green world about him, that he felt that
                            everything was all right again. The vigorous blooming forces of nature
                            everywhere present belied the sense of evil and decay to which mortality
                            is so readily subject. He felt that everything was justified in youth
                            and love, particularly where mutual affection reigned. Why should he not
                            take Angela? Why should they not be together? He went in to breakfast at
                            her call, eating comfortably of the things she provided. He felt the
                            easy familiarity and graciousness of the conqueror. Angela on her part
                            felt the fear and uncertainty of one who has embarked upon a dangerous
                            voyage. She had set sailwhither? At what port would she land? Was it the
                            lake or his studio? Would she live and be happy or would she die to face
                            a black uncertainty? Was there a hell as some preachers insisted? Was
                            there a gloomy place of lost souls such as the poets described? She
                            looked into the face of this same world which Eugene found so beautiful
                            and its very beauty trembled with forebodings of danger.
                        And there were days and days yet to be lived of this. For  all her fear, once having tasted of the
                            forbidden fruit, it was sweet and inviting. She could not go near
                            Eugene, nor he near her but this flush of emotion would return.
                        In the daylight she was too fearful, but when the night came with its
                            stars, its fresh winds, its urge to desire, her fears could not stand in
                            their way. Eugene was insatiable and she was yearning. The slightest
                            touch was as fire to tow. She yielded saying she would not yield.
                        The Blue family were of course blissfully ignorant of what was happening.
                            It seemed so astonishing to Angela at first that the very air did not
                            register her actions in some visible way. That they should be able thus
                            to be alone was not so remarkable, seeing that Eugene's
                            courtship was being aided and abetted, for her sake, but that her lapse
                            should not be exposed by some sinister influence seemed
                            strangeaccidental and subtly ominous. Something would happenthat was her
                            fear. She had not the courage of her desire or need.
                        By the end of the week, though Eugene was less ardent and more or less
                            oppressed by the seeming completeness with which he had conquered, he
                            was not ready to leave. He was sorry to go, for it ended a honeymoon of
                            sweetness and beautyall the more wonderful and enchanting because so
                            clandestineyet he was beginning to be aware that he had bound himself in
                            chains of duty and responsibility. Angela had thrown herself on his
                            mercy and his sense of honor to begin with. She had exacted a promise of
                            marriagenot urgently, and as one who sought to entrap him, but with the
                            explanation that otherwise life must end in disaster for her. Eugene
                            could look in her face and see that it would. And now that he had had
                            his way and plumbed the depths of her emotions and desires he had a
                            higher estimate of her personality. Despite the fact that she was older
                            than he, there was a breath of youth and beauty here that held him. Her
                            body was exquisite. Her feeling about life and love was tender and
                            beautiful. He wished he could make true her dreams of bliss without
                            injury to himself.
                        It so turned out that as his visit was drawing to a close Angela decided
                            that she ought to go to Chicago, for there were purchases which must be
                            made. Her mother wanted her to go and she decided that she would go with
                            Eugene. This made the separation easier, gave them more time to talk.
                            Her usual plan was to stay with her aunt and she was going there
                            now.
                        On the way she asked over and over what he would think of her in the
                            future; whether what had passed would not lower  her in his eyes. He did not feel that it would. Once she
                            said to him sadly"only death or marriage can help me
                            now."
                        "What do you mean?" he asked, her yellow head pillowed
                            on his shoulder, her dark blue eyes looking sadly into his.
                        "That if you don't marry me I'll have to kill
                            myself. I can't stay at home."
                        He thought of her with her beautiful body, her mass of soft hair all
                            tarnished in death.
                        "You wouldn't do that?" he asked
                            unbelievingly.
                        "Yes, I would," she said sadly. "I must, I
                            will."
                        "Hush, Angel Face," he pleaded. "You
                            won't do anything like that. You won't have to.
                            I'll marry youHow would you do it?"
                        "Oh, I've thought it all out," she continued
                            gloomily. "You know that little lake. I'd drown
                            myself."
                        "Don't, sweetheart," he pleaded.
                            "Don't talk that way. It's terrible. You
                            won't have to do anything like that."
                        To think of her under the waters of little Okoonee, with its green banks,
                            and yellow sandy shores. All her love come to this! All her passion! Her
                            death would be upon his head and he could not stand the thought of that.
                            It frightened him. Such tragedies occasionally appeared in the papers
                            with all the pathetic details convincingly set forth, but this should
                            not enter his life. He would marry her. She was lovely after all. He
                            would have to. He might as well make up his mind to that now. He began
                            to speculate how soon it might be. For the sake of her family she wanted
                            no secret marriage but one which, if they could not be present at it,
                            they could at least know was taking place. She was willing to come
                            Eastthat could be arranged. But they must be married. Eugene realized
                            the depth of her conventional feeling so keenly that it never occurred
                            to him to suggest an alternative. She would not consent, would scorn him
                            for it. The only alternative, she appeared to believe, was death.
                        One eveningthe lastwhen it was necessary for her to return to Blackwood,
                            and he had seen her off on the train, her face a study in sadness, he
                            rode out gloomily to Jackson Park where he had once seen a beautiful
                            lake in the moonlight. When he reached there the waters of the lake were
                            still suffused and tinged with lovely suggestions of lavender, pink and
                            silver, for this was near the twenty-first of June. The trees to the
                            east and west were dark. The sky showed a last blush of orange. Odours
                            were aboutwarm June fragrance. He thought now, as he walked about the
                            quiet paths where the sand and pebbles 
                            crunched lightly beneath his feet, of all the glory of this wonderful
                            week. How dramatic was life; how full of romance. This love of
                            Angela's, how beautiful. Youth was with himlove. Would he go on
                            to greater days of beauty or would he stumble, idling his time, wasting
                            his substance in riotous living? Was this riotous living? Would there be
                            evil fruition of his deeds? Would he really love Angela after he married
                            her? Would they be happy?
                        Thus he stood by the bank of this still lake, studying the water,
                            marvelling at the subtleties of reflected radiance, feeling the
                            artist's joy in perfect natural beauty, twining and
                            intertwining it all with love, death, failure, fame. It was romantic to
                            think that in such a lake, if he were unkind, would Angela be found. By
                            such a dark as was now descending would all her bright dreams be
                            submerged. It would be beautiful as romance. He could imagine a great
                            artist like Daudet or Balzac making a great story out of it. It was even
                            a subject for some form of romantic expression in art. Poor Angela! If
                            he were a great portrait painter he would paint her. He thought of some
                            treatment of her in the nude with that mass of hair of hers falling
                            about her neck and breasts. It would be beautiful. Should he marry her?
                            Yes, though he was not sure of the outcome, he must. It might be a
                            mistake but
                        He stared at the fading surface of the lake, silver, lavender, leaden
                            gray. Overhead a vivid star was already shining. How would it be with
                            her if she were really below those still waters? How would it be with
                            him? It would be too desperate, too regretful. No, he must marry her. It
                            was in this mood that he returned to the city, the ache of life in his
                            heart. It was in this mood that he secured his grip from the hotel and
                            sought the midnight train for New York. For once Ruby, Miriam,
                            Christina, were forgotten. He was involved in a love drama which meant
                            life or death to Angela, peace or reproach of conscience to himself in
                            the future. He could not guess what the outcome would be, but he felt
                            that he must marry herhow soon he could not say. Circumstances would
                            dictate that. From present appearances it must be immediately. He must
                            see about a studio, announce the news of his departure to Smite and
                            MacHugh; make a special effort to further his art ambitions so that he
                            and Angela would have enough to live on. He had talked so glowingly of
                            his art life that now, when the necessity for demonstrating it was at
                            hand, he was troubled as to what the showing might be. The studio had to
                            be attractive. He would need to introduce his friends. All the way back
                            to New York he  turned this over in his
                            mindSmite, MacHugh, Miriam, Norma, Wheeler, Christinawhat would
                            Christina think if she ever returned to New York and found him married?
                            There was no question but that there was a difference between Angela and
                            these. It was somethinga matter of couragemore soul, more daring, more
                            awareness, perhapssomething. When they saw her would they think he had
                            made a mistake, would they put him down as a fool? MacHugh was going
                            with a girl, but she was a different typeintellectual, smart. He thought
                            and thought, but he came back to the same conclusion always. He would
                            have to marry her. There was no way out. He would have to.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XXVIII
                        
                            THE studio of Messrs. Smite, MacHugh and Witla in
                            Waverley Place was concerned the following October with a rather
                            picturesque event. Even in the city the time when the leaves begin to
                            yellow and fall brings a sense of melancholy, augmented by those
                            preliminaries of winter, gray, lowery days, with scraps of paper,
                            straws, bits of wood blown about by gusty currents of air through the
                            streets, making it almost disagreeable to be abroad. The fear of cold
                            and storm and suffering among those who have little was already
                            apparent. Apparent too was the air of renewed vitality common to those
                            who have spent an idle summer and are anxious to work again. Shopping
                            and marketing and barter and sale were at high key. The art world, the
                            social world, the manufacturing world, the professional worlds of law,
                            medicine, finance, literature, were bubbling with a feeling of the
                            necessity to do and achieve. The whole city, stung by the apprehension
                            of winter, had an atmosphere of emprise and energy.
                        In this atmosphere, with a fairly clear comprehension of the elements
                            which were at work making the colour of the life about him, was Eugene,
                            digging away at the task he had set himself. Since leaving Angela he had
                            come to the conclusion that he must complete the jointings for the
                            exhibition which had been running in his mind during the last two years.
                            There was no other way for him to make a notable impressionhe saw that.
                            Since he had returned he had gone through various experiences: the
                            experience of having Angela tell him that she was sure there was
                            something wrong with her; an impression sincere enough, but based on an
                            excited and overwrought imagination of evil to follow, and having no
                            foundation in fact. Eugene was as yet, despite his several experiences,
                            not sufficiently informed in such affairs to know. His lack of courage
                            would have delayed him from asking if he had known. In the next place,
                            facing this crisis, he had declared that he would marry her, and because
                            of her distressed condition he thought he might as well do it now. He
                            had wanted time to do some of the pictures he was working on, to take in
                            a little money for drawing, to find a suitable place to live in. He had
                            looked at various studios in various sections of the city and had found
                            nothing, as yet, which answered to his taste or his purse. Anything with
                            a proper light, a bath,  a suitable
                            sleeping room, and an inconspicuous chamber which might be turned into a
                            kitchen, was difficult to find. Prices were high, ranging from fifty to
                            one hundred and twenty-five and one hundred and fifty a month. There
                            were some new studios being erected for the rich loungers and idlers
                            which commanded, so he understood, three or four thousand dollars a
                            year. He wondered if he should ever attain to any such magnificence
                            through his art.
                        Again, in taking a studio for Angela and himself there was the matter of
                            furniture. The studio he had with Smite and MacHugh was more or less of
                            a camp. The work room was bare of carpets or rugs. The two folding beds
                            and the cot which graced their individual chambers were heirlooms from
                            ancient predecessorssubstantial but shabby. Beyond various drawings,
                            three easels, and a chest of drawers for each, there was no suitable
                            household equipment. A woman came twice a week to clean, send out the
                            linen, and make up the beds.
                        To live with Angela required, in his judgment, many and much more
                            significant things. His idea of a studio was some such one as that now
                            occupied by Miriam Finch or Norma Whitmore. There ought to be furniture
                            of a periodold Flemish or Colonial, Heppelwhite or Chippendale or
                            Sheraton, such as he saw occasionally knocking about in curio shops and
                            second hand stores. It could be picked up if he had time. He was
                            satisfied that Angela knew nothing of these things. There ought to be
                            rugs, hangings of tapestry, bits of brass, pewter, copper, old silver,
                            if he could afford it. He had an idea of some day obtaining a figure of
                            the Christ in brass or plaster, hung upon a rough cross of walnut or
                            teak, which he could hang or stand in some corner as one might a shrine
                            and place before it two great candlesticks with immense candles smoked
                            and dripping with wax. These lighted in a dark studio, with the outlines
                            of the Christ flickering in the shadows behind would give the desired
                            atmosphere to his studio. Such an equipment as he dreamed of would have
                            cost in the neighborhood of two thousand dollars.
                        Of course this was not to be thought of at this period. He had no more
                            than that in ready cash. He was writing to Angela about his difficulties
                            in finding a suitable place, when he heard of a studio in Washington
                            Square South, which its literary possessor was going to quit for the
                            winter. It was, so he understood, handsomely furnished, and was to be
                            let for the rent of the studio. The owner wanted someone who would take
                            care of it by occupying it for him until he should return the following
                                 fall. Eugene hurried round to look at
                            it and, taken with the location, the appearance of the square from the
                            windows, the beauty of the furnishings, felt that he would like to live
                            here. This would be the way to introduce Angela to New York. This would
                            be the first and proper impression to give her. Here, as in every well
                            arranged studio he had yet seen were books, pictures, bits of statuary,
                            implements of copper and some few of silver. There was a great fish net
                            dyed green and spangled with small bits of mirror to look like scales
                            which hung as a veil between the studio proper and an alcove. There was
                            a piano done in black walnut, and odd pieces of furniture, Mission,
                            Flemish, Venetian of the sixteenth century and English of the
                            seventeenth, which, despite that diversity offered a unity of appearance
                            and a harmony of usefulness. There was one bed room, a bath, and a small
                            partitioned section which could be used as a kitchen. With a few of his
                            pictures judiciously substituted he could see a perfect abode here for
                            himself and his wife. The rent was fifty dollars. He decided that he
                            would risk it.
                        Having gone so far as to indicate that he would take ithe was made to
                            feel partially resigned to marriage by the very appearance of this
                            placehe decided that he would marry in October. Angela could come to New
                            York or Buffaloshe had never seen Niagara Fallsand they could be married
                            there. She had spoken recently of visiting her brother at West Point.
                            Then they could come here and settle down. He decided that this must be
                            so, wrote to her to that effect, and vaguely hinted to Smite and MacHugh
                            that he might get married shortly.
                        This was a great blow to his partners in art, for Eugene was very popular
                            with them. He had the habit, with those he liked, of jesting constantly.
                            "Look at the look of noble determination on Smite's
                            brow this morning," he would comment cheerfully on getting up;
                            or "MacHugh, you lazy lout, crawl out and earn your
                            living."
                        MacHugh's nose, eyes and ears would be comfortably buried in the
                            folds of a blanket.
                        "These hack artists," Eugene would sigh disconsolately.
                            "There's not much to be made out of them. A pile of
                            straw and a couple of boiled potatoes a day is all they
                            need."
                        "Aw, cut it out," MacHugh would grunt.
                        "To hell, to hell, I yell, I yell," would come from
                            somewhere in the voice of Smite.
                        "If it weren't for me," Eugene would go on,
                            "God knows  what would become of
                            this place. A lot of farmers and fishermen trying to be
                            artists."
                        "And laundry wagon drivers, don't forget
                            that," MacHugh would add, sitting up and rubbing his tousled
                            head, for Eugene had related some of his experiences.
                            "Don't forget the contribution made by the American
                            Steam Laundry Company to the world of true art."
                        "Collars and cuffs I would have you know is artistic,"
                            Eugene at once declared with mock dignity, "whereas plows and
                            fish is trash."
                        Sometimes this "kidding" would continue for a quarter
                            of an hour at a stretch, when some one remark really brighter than any
                            other would dissolve the whole in laughter. Work began after breakfast,
                            to which they usually sallied forth together, and would continue
                            unbroken save for necessary engagements or periods of entertainment,
                            lunch and so on, until five in the afternoon.
                        They had worked together now for a couple of years. They had, by
                            experience, learned of each other's reliability, courtesy,
                            kindness and liberality. Criticism was free, generous, and sincerely
                            intended to be helpful. Pleasure trips, such as walks on grey, lowery
                            days, or in rain or brilliant sunshine, or trips to Coney Island, Far
                            Rockaway, the theatres, the art exhibitions, the odd and peculiar
                            restaurants of different nationalities, were always undertaken in a
                            spirit of joyous camaraderie. Jesting as to morality, their respective
                            abilities, their tendencies and characteristics were all taken and given
                            in good part. At one time it would be Joseph Smite who would come in for
                            a united drubbing and excoriation on the part of Eugene and MacHugh. At
                            another time Eugene or MacHugh would be the victim, the other two
                            joining forces vigorously. Art, literature, personalities, phases of
                            life, philosophy, were discussed by turn. As with Jerry Mathews, Eugene
                            had learned of new things from these menthe life of fisher-folk, and the
                            characteristics of the ocean from Joseph Smite; the nature and spirit of
                            the great West from MacHugh. Each appeared to have an inexhaustible fund
                            of experiences and reminiscences which refreshed and entertained the
                            trio day by day year in and year out. They were at their best strolling
                            through some exhibit or preliminary view of an art collection offered
                            for sale, when all their inmost convictions of what was valuable and
                            enduring in art would come to the surface. All three were intolerant of
                            reputations as such, but were strong for individual merit whether it
                            carried a great name or not. They were constantly becoming acquainted
                            with the  work of some genius little known
                            here, and celebrating his talents, each to the others. Thus Monet,
                            Degas, Manet, Ribera, Monticelli, by turns came up for examination and
                            praise.
                        When Eugene then, toward the end of September, announced that he might be
                            leaving them shortly, there was a united wail of opposition. Joseph
                            Smite was working on a sea scene at the time, doing his best to get the
                            proper colour harmony between the worm-eaten deck of a Gold Coast
                            trading ship, a half naked West Coast negro handling a broken wheel, and
                            a mass of blue black undulations in the distance which represented the
                            boundless sea.
                        "G'wan!" said Smite, incredulously, for he
                            assumed that Eugene was jesting. There had been a steady stream of
                            letters issuing from somewhere in the West and delivered here week after
                            week, as there had been for MacHugh, but this by now was a commonplace,
                            and apparently meant nothing. "You marry? What the hell do you
                            want to get married for? A fine specimen you will make! I'll
                            come around and tell your wife."
                        "Sure," returned Eugene. "It's true,
                            I may get married." He was amused at Smite's natural
                            assumption that it was a jest.
                        "Stow that," called MacHugh, from his easel. He was
                            working on a country corner picture, a group of farmers before a country
                            post office. "You don't want to break up this shack,
                            do you?" Both of these men were fond of Eugene. They found him
                            inspiring, helpful, always intensely vigorous and apparently
                            optimistic.
                        "I don't want to break up any shack. But
                            haven't I a right to get married?"
                        "I vote no, by God!" said Smite emphatically.
                            "You'll never go out of here with my consent. Peter,
                            are we going to stand for anything like that?"
                        "We are not," replied MacHugh. "We'll
                            call out the reserves if he tries any game like that on us.
                            I'll prefer charges against him. Who's the lady,
                            Eugene?"
                        "I bet I know," suggested Smite.
                            "He's been running up to Twenty-sixth Street pretty
                            regularly." Joseph was thinking of Miriam Finch, to whom Eugene
                            had introduced both him and MacHugh.
                        "Nothing like that, surely," inquired MacHugh, looking
                            over at Eugene to see if it possibly could be so.
                        "It's all true, fellers," replied Eugene,
                            "as God is my judge. I'm going to leave you
                            soon."
                        
                        "You're not really talking seriously, are you,
                            Witla?" inquired Joseph soberly.
                        "I am, Joe," said Eugene quietly. He was studying the
                            perspective of his sixteenth New York view,three engines coming abreast
                            into a great yard of cars. The smoke, the haze, the dingy reds and blues
                            and yellows and greens of kicked about box cars were showing with
                            beautythe vigor and beauty of raw reality.
                        "Soon?" asked MacHugh, equally quietly. He was feeling
                            that touch of pensiveness which comes with a sense of vanishing
                            pleasures.
                        "I think some time in October, very likely," replied
                            Eugene.
                        "Jesus Christ, I'm sorry to hear that," put in
                            Smite.
                        He laid down his brush and strolled over to the window. MacHugh, less
                            expressive in extremes, worked on meditatively.
                        "When'd you reach that conclusion, Witla?" he
                            asked after a time.
                        "Oh, I've been thinking it over for a long time,
                            Peter," he returned. "I should really have married
                            before if I could have afforded it. I know how things are here or I
                            wouldn't have sprung this so suddenly. I'll hold up my
                            end on the rent here until you get someone else."
                        "To hell with the rent," said Smite. "We
                            don't want anyone else, do we, Peter? We didn't have
                            anyone else before."
                        Smite was rubbing his square chin and contemplating his partner as if
                            they were facing a catastrophe.
                        "There's no use talking about that," said
                            Peter. "You know we don't care about the rent. Do you
                            mind telling us who you're going to marry? Do we know
                            her?"
                        "You don't," returned Eugene.
                            "She's out in Wisconsin. It's the one who
                            writes the letters. Angela Blue is her name."
                        "Well, here's to Angela Blue, by God, say I,"
                            said Smite, recovering his spirits and picking up his paint brush from
                            his board to hold aloft. "Here's to Mrs. Eugene Witla,
                            and may she never reef a sail to a storm or foul an anchor, as they say
                            up Nova Scotia way."
                        "Right oh," added MacHugh, catching the spirit of
                            Smite's generous attitude. "Them's my
                            sentiments. When d'you expect to get married really,
                            Eugene?"
                        "Oh I haven't fixed the time exactly. About November
                            first, I should say. I hope you won't say anything about it
                            though, either of you. I don't want to go through any
                            explanations."
                        "We won't, but it's tough, you old walrus. Why
                            the hell  didn't you give us time
                            to think it over? You're a fine jellyfish, you
                            are."
                        He poked him reprimandingly in the ribs.
                        "There isn't anyone any more sorry than I am,"
                            said Eugene. "I hate to leave here, I do. But we won't
                            lose track of each other. I'll still be around
                            here."
                        "Where do you expect to live? Here in the city?" asked
                            MacHugh, still a little gloomy.
                        "Sure. Right here in Washington Square. Remember that Dexter
                            studio Weaver was telling about? The one in the third floor at
                            sixty-one? That's it."
                        "You don't say!" exclaimed Smite.
                            "You're in right. How'd you get
                            that?"
                        Eugene explained.
                        "Well, you sure are a lucky man," observed MacHugh.
                            "Your wife ought to like that. I suppose there'll be a
                            cozy corner for an occasional strolling artist?"
                        "No farmers, no sea-faring men, no artistic
                            hacksnothing!" declared Eugene dramatically.
                        "You to Hell," said Smite. "When Mrs. Witla
                            sees us"
                        "She'll wish she'd never come to New
                            York," put in Eugene.
                        "She'll wish she'd seen us first,"
                            said MacHugh.
                    
                
                
                
                    BOOK II STRUGGLE
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER I
                        
                            THE marriage ceremony between Eugene and Angela was
                            solemnized at Buffalo on November second. As planned, Marietta was with
                            them. They would go, the three of them, to the Falls, and to West Point,
                            where the girls would see their brother David, and then Marietta would
                            return to tell the family about it. Naturally, under the circumstances,
                            it was a very simple affair, for there were no congratulations to go
                            through with and no giftsat least immediatelyto consider and
                            acknowledge. Angela had explained to her parents and friends that it was
                            quite impossible for Eugene to come West at this time. She knew that he
                            objected to a public ceremony where he would have to run the gauntlet of
                            all her relatives, and so she was quite willing to meet him in the East
                            and be married there. Eugene had not troubled to take his family into
                            his confidence as yet. He had indicated on his last visit home that he
                            might get married, and that Angela was the girl in question, but since
                            Myrtle was the only one of his family who had seen her and she was now
                            in Ottumwa, Iowa, they could not recall anything about her.
                            Eugene's father was a little disappointed, for he expected to
                            hear some day that Eugene had made a brilliant match. His boy, whose
                            pictures were in the magazines so frequently and whose appearance was so
                            generally distinguished, ought in New York, where opportunities
                            abounded, to marry an heiress at least. It was all right of course if
                            Eugene wanted to marry a girl from the country, but it robbed the family
                            of a possible glory.
                        The spirit of this marriage celebration, so far as Eugene was concerned,
                            was hardly right. There was the consciousness, always with him, of his
                            possibly making a mistake; the feeling that he was being compelled by
                            circumstances and his own weakness to fulfil an agreement which might
                            better remain unfulfilled. His only urge was his desire, in the
                            gratification of which he might find compensation, for saving Angela
                            from an unhappy spinsterhood. It was a thin reed to lean on; there could
                            be no honest satisfaction in it. Angela was sweet, devoted, painstaking
                            in her attitude toward life, toward him, toward everything with which
                            she came in contact, but she was not what he had always fancied his true
                            mate would bethe be all and the end all of his existence. Where was the
                            divine fire which on  this occasion should
                            have animated him; the lofty thoughts of future companionship; that
                            intense feeling he had first felt about her when he had called on her at
                            her aunt's house in Chicago? Something had happened. Was it
                            that he had cheapened his ideal by too close contact with it? Had he
                            taken a beautiful flower and trailed it in the dust? Was passion all
                            there was to marriage? Or was it that true marriage was something
                            highera union of fine thoughts and feelings? Did Angela share his with
                            him? Angela did have exalted feelings and moods at times. They were not
                            sensibly intellectualbut she seemed to respond to the better things in
                            music and to some extent in literature. She knew nothing about art, but
                            she was emotionally responsive to many fine things. Why was not this
                            enough to make life durable and comfortable between them? Was it not
                            really enough? After he had gone over all these points, there was still
                            the thought that there was something wrong in this union. Despite his
                            supposedly laudable conduct in fulfilling an obligation which, in a way,
                            he had helped create or created, he was not happy. He went to his
                            marriage as a man goes to fulfil an uncomfortable social obligation. It
                            might turn out that he would have an enjoyable and happy life and it
                            might turn out very much otherwise. He could not face the weight and
                            significance of the social theory that this was for lifethat if he
                            married her today he would have to live with her all the rest of his
                            days. He knew that was the generally accepted interpretation of
                            marriage, but it did not appeal to him. Union ought in his estimation to
                            be based on a keen desire to live together and on nothing else. He did
                            not feel the obligation which attaches to children, for he had never had
                            any and did not feel the desire for any. A child was a kind of a
                            nuisance. Marriage was a trick of Nature's by which you were
                            compelled to carry out her scheme of race continuance. Love was a lure;
                            desire a scheme of propagation devised by the way. Nature, the race
                            spirit, used you as you would use a work-horse to pull a load. The load
                            in this case was race progress and man was the victim. He did not think
                            he owed anything to nature, or to this race spirit. He had not asked to
                            come here. He had not been treated as generously as he might have been
                            since he arrived. Why should he do what nature bid?
                        When he met Angela he kissed her fondly, for of course the sight of her
                            aroused the feeling of desire which had been running in his mind so
                            keenly for some time. Since last seeing Angela he had touched no woman,
                            principally because the right one had not presented herself and because
                            the memories and the  anticipations in
                            connection with Angela were so close. Now that he was with her again the
                            old fire came over him and he was eager for the completion of the
                            ceremony. He had seen to the marriage license in the morning,and from
                            the train on which Angela and Marietta arrived they proceeded in a
                            carriage direct to the Methodist preacher. The ceremony which meant so
                            much to Angela meant practically nothing to him. It seemed a silly
                            formulathis piece of paper from the marriage clerk's office and
                            this instructed phraseology concerning "love, honor and
                            cherish." Certainly he would love, honor and cherish if it were
                            possibleif not, then not. Angela, with the marriage ring on her finger
                            and the words "with this ring I thee wed" echoing in
                            her ears, felt that all her dreams had come true. Now she was, really,
                            truly, Mrs. Eugene Witla. She did not need to worry about drowning
                            herself, or being disgraced, or enduring a lonely, commiserated old age.
                            She was the wife of an artista rising one, and she was going to live in
                            New York. What a future stretched before her! Eugene loved her after
                            all. She imagined she could see that. His slowness in marrying her was
                            due to the difficulty of establishing himself properly. Otherwise he
                            would have done it before. They drove to the Iroquois hotel and
                            registered as man and wife, securing a separate room for Marietta. The
                            latter pretending an urgent desire to bathe after her railroad journey,
                            left them, promising to be ready in time for dinner. Eugene and Angela
                            were finally alone.
                        He now saw how, in spite of his fine theories, his previous experiences
                            with Angela had deadened to an extent his joy in this occasion. He had
                            her again it was true. His desire that he had thought of so keenly was
                            to be gratified, but there was no mystery connected with it. His real
                            nuptials had been celebrated at Blackwood months before. This was the
                            commonplace of any marriage relation. It was intense and gratifying, but
                            the original, wonderful mystery of unexplored character was absent. He
                            eagerly took her in his arms, but there was more of crude desire than of
                            awed delight in the whole proceeding.
                        Nevertheless Angela was sweet to him. Hers was a loving disposition and
                            Eugene was the be all and end all of her love. His figure was of heroic
                            proportions to her. His talent was divine fire. No one could know as
                            much as Eugene, of course! No one could be as artistic. True, he was not
                            as practical as some menher brothers and brothers-in-law, for
                            instancebut he was a man of genius. Why should he be practical? She was
                            beginning to think already of how thoroughly she would help  him shape his life toward successwhat a
                            good wife she would be to him. Her training as a teacher, her experience
                            as a buyer, her practical judgment, would help him so much. They spent
                            the two hours before dinner in renewed transports and then dressed and
                            made their public appearance. Angela had had designed a number of
                            dresses for this occasion, representing the saving of years, and tonight
                            at dinner she looked exceptionally pretty in a dress of black silk with
                            neck piece and half sleeves of mother-of-pearl silk, set off with a
                            decoration of seed pearls and black beads in set designs. Marietta, in a
                            pale pink silk of peachblow softness of hue with short sleeves and a low
                            cut bodice was, with all her youth and natural plumpness and gaiety of
                            soul, ravishing. Now that she had Angela safely married, she was under
                            no obligations to keep out of Eugene's way nor to modify her
                            charms in order that her sister's might shine. She was
                            particularly ebullient in her mood and Eugene could not help
                            contrasting, even in this hour, the qualities of the two sisters.
                            Marietta's smile, her humor, her unconscious courage,
                            contrasted so markedly with Angela's quietness.
                        The luxuries of the modern hotel have become the commonplaces of ordinary
                            existence, but to the girls they were still strange enough to be
                            impressive. To Angela they were a foretaste of what was to be an
                            enduring higher life. These carpets, hangings, elevators, waiters,
                            seemed in their shabby materialism to speak of superior things.
                        One day in Buffalo, with a view of the magnificent falls at Niagara, and
                            then came West Point with a dress parade accidentally provided for a
                            visiting general and a ball for the cadets. Marietta, because of her
                            charm and her brother's popularity, found herself so much in
                            demand at West Point that she extended her stay to a week, leaving
                            Eugene and Angela free to come to New York together and have a little
                            time to themselves. They only stayed long enough to see Marietta safely
                            housed and then came to the city and the apartment in Washington
                            Square.
                        It was dark when they arrived and Angela was impressed with the
                            glittering galaxy of lights the city presented across the North River
                            from Forty-second Street. She had no idea of the nature of the city, but
                            as the cab at Eugene's request turned into Broadway at
                            Forty-second Street and clattered with interrupted progress south to
                            Fifth Avenue she had her first glimpse of that tawdry world which
                            subsequently became known as the "Great White Way."
                            Already its make-believe and inherent cheapness had come to seem to
                            Eugene largely characteristic of the city 
                            and of life, but it still retained enough of the lure of the flesh and
                            of clothes and of rush-light reputations to hold his attention. Here
                            were dramatic critics and noted actors and actresses and chorus girls,
                            the gods and toys of avid, inexperienced, unsatisfied wealth. He showed
                            Angela the different theatres, called her attention to distinguished
                            names; made much of restaurants and hotels and shops and stores that
                            sell trifles and trash, and finally turned into lower Fifth Avenue,
                            where the dignity of great houses and great conservative wealth still
                            lingered. At Fourteenth Street Angela could already see Washington Arch
                            glowing cream white in the glare of electric lights.
                        "What is that?" she asked interestedly.
                        "It's Washington Arch," he replied.
                            "We live in sight of that on the south side of the
                            Square."
                        "Oh! but it is beautiful!" she exclaimed.
                        It seemed very wonderful to her, and as they passed under it, and the
                            whole Square spread out before her, it seemed a perfect world in which
                            to live.
                        "Is this where it is?" she asked, as they stopped in
                            front of the studio building.
                        "Yes, this is it. How do you like it?"
                        "I think it's beautiful," she said.
                        They went up the white stone steps of the old Bride house in which was
                            Eugene's leased studio, up two flights of redcarpeted stairs
                            and finally into the dark studio where he struck a match and lit, for
                            the art of it, candles. A soft waxen glow irradiated the place as he
                            proceeded and then Angela saw old Chippendale chairs, a Heppelwhite
                            writing-table, a Flemish strong box containing used and unused drawings,
                            the green stained fish-net studded with bits of looking glass in
                            imitation of scales, a square, gold-framed mirror over the mantel, and
                            one of Eugene's drawingsthe three engines in the gray, lowering
                            weather, standing large and impressive upon an easel. It seemed to
                            Angela the perfection of beauty. She saw the difference now between the
                            tawdry gorgeousness of a commonplace hotel and this selection and
                            arrangement of individual taste. The glowing candelabrum of seven
                            candles on either side of the square mirror surprised her deeply. The
                            black walnut piano in the alcove behind the half draped net drew forth
                            an exclamation of delight. "Oh, how lovely it all is!"
                            she exclaimed and ran to Eugene to be kissed. He fondled her for a few
                            minutes and then she left again to examine in detail pictures, pieces of
                            furniture, ornaments of brass and copper.
                        "When did you get all this?" she asked, for Eugene had
                            not  told her of his luck in finding the
                            departing Dexter and leasing it for the rent of the studio and its care.
                            He was lighting the fire in the grate which had been prepared by the
                            house attendant.
                        "Oh, it isn't mine," he replied easily.
                            "I leased this from Russell Dexter. He's going to be
                            in Europe until next winter. I thought that would be easier than waiting
                            around to fix up a place after you came. We can get our things together
                            next fall."
                        He was thinking he would be able to have his exhibition in the spring,
                            and perhaps that would bring some notable sales. Anyhow it might bring a
                            few, increase his repute and give him a greater earning power.
                        Angela's heart sank just a little but she recovered in a moment,
                            for after all it was very exceptional even to be able to lease a place
                            of this character. She went to the window and looked out. There was the
                            great square with its four walls of houses, the spread of trees, still
                            decorated with a few dusty leaves, and the dozens of arc lights
                            sputtering their white radiance in between, the graceful arch, cream
                            white over at the entrance of Fifth Avenue.
                        "It's so beautiful," she exclaimed again,
                            coming back to Eugene and putting her arms about him. "I
                            didn't think it would be anything as fine as this.
                            You're so good to me." She put up her lips and he
                            kissed her, pinching her cheeks. Together they walked to the kitchen,
                            the bedroom, the bathroom. Then after a time they blew out the candles
                            and retired for the night.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER II
                        
                            AFTER the quiet of a small town, the monotony and
                            simplicity of country life, the dreary, reiterated weariness of teaching
                            a country school, this new world into which Angela was plunged seemed to
                            her astonished eyes to be compounded of little save beauties,
                            curiosities and delights. The human senses, which weary so quickly of
                            reiterated sensory impressions, exaggerate with equal readiness the
                            beauty and charm of the unaccustomed. If it is new, therefore it must be
                            better than that which we have had of old. The material details with
                            which we are able to surround ourselves seem at times to remake our
                            point of view. If we have been poor, wealth will seem temporarily to
                            make us happy; when we have been amid elements and personages discordant
                            to our thoughts, to be put among harmonious conditions seems, for the
                            time being, to solve all our woes. So little do we have that interior
                            peace which no material conditions can truly affect or disturb.
                        When Angela awoke the next morning, this studio in which she was now to
                            live seemed the most perfect habitation which could be devised by man.
                            The artistry of the arrangement of the rooms, the charm of the
                            conveniencesa bathroom with hot and cold water next to the bedroom; a
                            kitchen with an array of necessary utensils. In the rear portion of the
                            studio used as a dining-room a glimpse of the main studio gave her the
                            sense of art which dealt with nature, the beauty of the human form,
                            colors, toneshow different from teaching school. To her the difference
                            between the long, low rambling house at Blackwood with its vine
                            ornamented windows, its somewhat haphazard arrangement of flowers and
                            its great lawn, and this peculiarly compact and ornate studio apartment
                            looking out upon Washington Square, was all in favor of the latter. In
                            Angela's judgment there was no comparison. She could not have
                            understood if she could have seen into Engene's mind at this
                            time how her home town, her father's single farm, the blue
                            waters of the little lake near her door, the shadows of the tall trees
                            on her lawn were somehow, compounded for him not only with classic
                            beauty itself, but with her own charm. When she was among these things
                            she partook of their beauty and was made more beautiful thereby. She did
                            not know how much she had lost in leaving them behind. To her all these
                            older elements of her life were shabby and unimportant, pointless and to
                            be neglected.
                        
                        This new world was in its way for her an Aladdin's cave of
                            delight. When she looked out on the great square for the first time the
                            next morning, seeing it bathed in sunlight, a dignified line of red
                            brick dwellings to the north, a towering office building to the east,
                            trucks, carts, cars and vehicles clattering over the pavement below, it
                            all seemed gay with youth and energy.
                        "We'll have to dress and go out to breakfast,"
                            said Eugene. "I didn't think to lay anything in. As a
                            matter of fact I wouldn't have known what to buy if I had
                            wanted to. I never tried housekeeping for myself."
                        "Oh, that's all right," said Angela, fondling
                            his hands, "only let's not go out to breakfast unless
                            we have to. Let's see what's here," and she
                            went back to the very small room devoted to cooking purposes to see what
                            cooking utensils had been provided. She had been dreaming of
                            housekeeping and cooking for Eugene, of petting and spoiling him, and
                            now the opportunity had arrived. She found that Mr. Dexter, their
                            generous lessor, had provided himself with many conveniencesbreakfast
                            and dinner sets of brown and blue porcelain, a coffee percolator, a
                            charming dull blue teapot with cups to match, a chafing dish, a set of
                            waffle irons, griddles, spiders, skillets, stew and roasting pans and
                            knives and forks of steel and silver in abundance. Obviously he had
                            entertained from time to time, for there were bread, cake, sugar, flour
                            and salt boxes and a little chest containing, in small drawers, various
                            spices.
                        "Oh, it will be easy to get something here," said
                            Angela, lighting the burners of the gas stove to see whether it was in
                            good working order. "We can just go out to market if
                            you'll come and show me once and get what we want. It
                            won't take a minute. I'll know after that."
                            Eugene consented gladly.
                        She had always fancied she would be an ideal housekeeper and now that she
                            had her Eugene she was anxious to begin. It would be such a pleasure to
                            show him what a manager she was, how everything would go smoothly in her
                            hands, how careful she would be of his earningstheir joint
                            possessions.
                        She was sorry, now that she saw that art was no great producer of wealth,
                            that she had no money to bring him, but she knew that Eugene in the
                            depth of his heart thought nothing of that. He was too impractical. He
                            was a great artist, but when it came to practical affairs she felt
                            instinctively that she was much the wiser. She had bought so long,
                            calculated so well for her sisters and brothers.
                        Out of her bag (for her trunks had not yet arrived) she extracted a neat
                            house dress of pale green linen which she put on  after she had done up her hair in a cosy coil, and
                            together with Eugene for a temporary guide, they set forth to find the
                            stores. He had told her, looking out the windows, that there were lines
                            of Italian grocers, butchers and vegetable men in the side streets,
                            leading south from the square, and into one of these they now ventured.
                            The swarming, impressive life of the street almost took her breath away,
                            it was so crowded. Potatoes, tomatoes, eggs, flour, butter, lamb chops,
                            salta dozen little accessories were all purchased in small quantities,
                            and then they eagerly returned to the studio. Angela was a little
                            disgusted with the appearance of some of the stores, but some of them
                            were clean enough. It seemed so strange to her to be buying in an
                            Italian street, with Italian women and children about, their swarthy
                            leathern faces set with bright, almost feverish eyes. Eugene in his
                            brown corduroy suit and soft green hat, watching and commenting at her
                            side, presented such a contrast. He was so tall, so exceptional, so
                            laconic.
                        "I like them when they wear rings in their ears," he
                            said at one time.
                        "Get the coal man who looks like a bandit," he observed
                            at another.
                        "This old woman here might do for the witch of
                            Endor."
                        Angela attended strictly to her marketing. She was gay and smiling, but
                            practical. She was busy wondering in what quantities she should buy
                            things, how she would keep fresh vegetables, whether the ice box was
                            really clean; how much delicate dusting the various objects in the
                            studio would require. The raw brick walls of the street, the dirt and
                            slops in the gutter, the stray cats and dogs hungry and lean, the
                            swarming stream of people, did not appeal to her as picturesque at all.
                            Only when she heard Eugene expatiating gravely did she begin to realize
                            that all this must have artistic significance. If Eugene said so it did.
                            But it was a fascinating world whatever it was, and it was obvious that
                            she was going to be very, very happy.
                        There was a breakfast in the studio then of hot biscuit with fresh
                            butter, an omelette with tomatoes, potatoes stewed in cream, and coffee.
                            After the long period of commonplace restaurant dining which Eugene had
                            endured, this seemed ideal. To sit in your own private apartment with a
                            charming wife opposite you ready to render you any service, and with an
                            array of food before you which revived the finest memories in your
                            gustatory experience, seemed perfect. Nothing could be better. He saw
                            visions of a happy future if he could finance this sort of thing. It
                            would require a lot of money, more than he had been making,  but he thought he could make out. After
                            breakfast Ana played on the piano, and then, Eugene
                            wanting to work, she started housekeeping in earnest. The trunks
                            arriving gave her the task of unpacking and with that and lunch and
                            dinner to say nothing of love she had sufficient to do.
                        It was a charming existence for a little while. Eugene suggested that
                            they should have Smite and MacHugh to dinner first of all, these being
                            his closest friends. Angela agreed heartily for she was only too anxious
                            to meet the people he knew. She wanted to show him she knew how to
                            receive and entertain as well as anyone. She made great preparations for
                            the Wednesday evening followingthe night fixed for the dinnerand when it
                            came was on the qui vive to see what his friends were like and what they
                            would think of her.
                        The occasion passed off smoothly enough and was the occasion of
                            considerable jollity. These two cheerful worthies were greatly impressed
                            with the studio. They were quick to praise it before Angela, and to
                            congratulate him on his good fortune in having married her. Angela, in
                            the same dress in which she had appeared at dinner in Buffalo, was
                            impressive. Her mass of yellow hair fascinated the gaze of both Smite
                            and MacHugh.
                        "Gee, what hair!" Smite observed secretly to MacHugh
                            when neither Angela nor Eugene were within hearing distance.
                        "You're right," returned MacHugh.
                            "She's not at all bad looking, is she?"
                        "I should say not," returned Smite who admired
                            Angela's simple, good-natured western manners. A little later,
                            more subtly, they expressed their admiration to her, and she was greatly
                            pleased.
                        Marietta, who had arrived late that afternoon, had not made her
                            appearance yet. She was in the one available studio bedroom making her
                            toilet. Angela, in spite of her fine raiment, was busy superintending
                            the cooking, for although through the janitor she had managed to
                            negotiate the loan of a girl to serve, she could not get anyone to cook.
                            A soup, a fish, a chicken and a salad, were the order of procedure.
                            Marietta finally appeared, ravishing in pink silk. Both Smite and
                            MacHugh sat up and Marietta proceeded to bewitch them. Marietta knew no
                            order or distinctions in men. They were all slaves to hervictims to be
                            stuck on the spit of her beauty and broiled in their amorous
                            uncertainties at her leisure. In after years Eugene learned to speak of
                            Marietta's smile as "the dagger." The moment
                            she appeared smiling he would say, "Ah, we have it out again,
                            have we? Who gets the blade this evening? Poor victim!"
                        
                        Being her brother-in-law now, he was free to slip his arm about her waist
                            and she took this family connection as license to kiss him. There was
                            something about Eugene which held her always. During these very first
                            days she gratified her desire to be in his arms, but always with a sense
                            of reserve which kept him in check. She wondered secretly how much he
                            liked her.
                        Smite and MacHugh, when she appeared, both rose to do her service.
                            MacHugh offered her his chair by the fire. Smite bestirred himself in an
                            aimless fashion.
                        "I've just had such a dandy week up at West
                            Point," began Marietta cheerfully, "dancing, seeing
                            dress parades, walking with the soldier boys."
                        "I warn you two, here and now," began Eugene, who had
                            already learned to tease Marietta, "that you're not
                            safe. This woman here is dangerous. As artists in good standing you had
                            better look out for yourselves."
                        "Oh, Eugene, how you talk," laughed Marietta, her teeth
                            showing effectively. "Mr. Smite, I leave it to you.
                            Isn't that a mean way to introduce a sister-in-law?
                            I'm here for just a few days too, and have so little time. I
                            think it cruel!"
                        "It's a shame!" said Smite, who was plainly a
                            willing victim. "You ought to have another kind of
                            brother-in-law. If you had some people I know now"
                        "It's an outrage," commented MacHugh.
                            "There's one thing though. You may not require so very
                            much time."
                        "Now I think that's ungallant," Marietta
                            laughed. "I see I'm all alone here except for Mr.
                            Smite. Never mind. You all will be sorry when I'm
                            gone."
                        "I believe that," replied MacHugh, feelingly.
                        Smite simply stared. He was lost in admiration of her cream and peach
                            complexion, her fluffy, silky brown hair, her bright blue eyes and plump
                            rounded arms. Such radiant good nature would be heavenly to live with.
                            He wondered what sort of a family this was that Eugene had become
                            connected with. Angela, Marietta, a brother at West Point. They must be
                            nice, conservative, well-to-do western people. Marietta went to help her
                            sister, and Smite, in the absence of Eugene, said: "Say,
                            he's in right, isn't he? She's a peach.
                            She's got it a little on her sister."
                        MacHugh merely stared at the room. He was taken with the complexion and
                            arrangement of things generally. The old furniture, the rugs, the
                            hangings, the pictures, Eugene's borrowed maid servant in a
                            white apron and cap, Angela, Marietta, the bright table set with colored
                            china and an arrangement of  silver
                            candlesticksEugene had certainly changed the tenor of his life Radically
                            within the last ten days. Why he was marvellously fortunate. This studio
                            was a wonderful piece of luck. Some peopleand he shook his head
                            meditatively.
                        "Well," said Eugene, coming back after some final
                            touches to his appearance, "what do you think of it,
                            Peter?"
                        "You're certainly moving along, Eugene. I never
                            expected to see it. You ought to praise God. You're plain
                            lucky."
                        Eugene smiled enigmatically. He was wondering whether he was. Neither
                            Smite nor MacHugh nor anyone could dream of the conditions under which
                            this came about. What a sham the world was anyhow. It's surface
                            appearances so ridiculously deceptive! If anyone had known of the
                            apparent necessity when he first started to look for an apartment, of
                            his own mood toward it!
                        Marietta came back, and Angela. The latter had taken kindly to both these
                            men, or boys as she already considered them. Eugene had a talent for
                            reducing everybody to "simply folks," as he called
                            them. So these two capable and talented men were mere country boys like
                            himselfand Angela caught his attitude.
                        "I'd like to have you let me make a sketch of you some
                            day, Mrs. Witla," MacHugh said to Angela when she came back to
                            the fire. He was essaying portraiture as a side line and he was anxious
                            for good opportunities to practice.
                        Angela thrilled at the invitation, and the use of her new name, Mrs.
                            Witla, by Eugene's old friends.
                        "I'd be delighted," she replied, flushing.
                        "My word, you look nice, Angel-Face," exclaimed
                            Marietta, catching her about the waist. "You paint her with her
                            hair down in braids, Mr. MacHugh. She makes a stunning
                            Gretchen."
                        Angela flushed anew.
                        "I've been reserving that for myself, Peter,"
                            said Eugene, "but you try your hand at it. I'm not
                            much in portraiture anyhow."
                        Smite smiled at Marietta. He wished he could paint her, but he was poor
                            at figure work except as incidental characters in sea scenes. He could
                            do men better than he could women.
                        "If you were an old sea captain now, Miss Blue," he
                            said to Marietta gallantly, "I could make a striking thing out
                            of you."
                        "I'll try to be, if you want to paint me," she
                            replied gaily. "I'd look fine in a big pair of boots
                            and a raincoat, wouldn't I, Eugene?"
                        
                        "You certainly would, if I'm any judge,"
                            replied Smite. "Come over to the studio and I'll rig
                            you out. I have all those things on hand."
                        "I will," she replied, laughing. "You just say
                            the word."
                        MacHugh felt as if Smite were stealing a march on him. He wanted to be
                            nice to Marietta, to have her take an interest in him.
                        "Now, looky, Joseph," he protested. "I was
                            going to suggest making a study of Miss Blue myself."
                        "Well, you're too late," replied Smite.
                            "You didn't speak quick enough."
                        Marietta was greatly impressed with this atmosphere in which Angela and
                            Eugene were living. She expected to see something artistic, but nothing
                            so nice as this particular studio. Angela explained to her that Eugene
                            did not own it, but that made small difference in Marietta's
                            estimate of its significance. Eugene had it. His art and social
                            connections brought it about. They were beginning excellently well. If
                            she could have as nice a home when she started on her married career she
                            would be satisfied.
                        They sat down about the round teak table which was one of
                            Dexter's prized possessions, and were served by
                            Angela's borrowed maid. The conversation was light and for the
                            most part pointless, serving only to familiarize these people with each
                            other. Both Angela and Marietta were taken with the two artists because
                            they felt in them a note of homely conservatism. These men spoke easily
                            and naturally of the trials and triumphs of art life, and the difficulty
                            of making a good living, and seemed to be at home with personages of
                            repute in one world and another, its greatest reward.
                        During the dinner Smite narrated experiences in his sea-faring life, and
                            MacHugh of his mountain camping experiences in the West. Marietta
                            described experiences with her beaux in Wisconsin and characteristics of
                            her yokel neighbors at Blackwood, Angela joining in. Finally MacHugh
                            drew a pencil sketch of Marietta followed by a long train of admiring
                            yokels, her eyes turned up in a very shy, deceptive manner.
                        "Now I think that's cruel," she declared, when
                            Eugene laughed heartily. "I never look like that."
                        "That's just the way you look and do," he
                            declared. "You're the broad and flowery path that
                            leadeth to destruction."
                        "Never mind, Babyette," put in Angela,
                            "I'll take your part if no one else will.
                            You're a nice, demure, shrinking girl and you wouldn't
                            look at anyone, would you?"
                        
                        Angela got up and was holding Marietta's head mock
                            sympathetically in her arms.
                        "Say, that's a dandy pet name," called Smite,
                            moved by Marietta's beauty.
                        "Poor Marietta," observed Eugene. "Come over
                            here to me and I'll sympathize with you."
                        "You don't take my drawing in the right spirit, Miss
                            Blue," put in MacHugh cheerfully. "It's
                            simply to show how popular you are."
                        Angela stood beside Eugene as her guests departed, her slender arm about
                            his waist. Marietta was coquetting finally with MacHugh. These two
                            friends of his, thought Eugene, had the privilege of singleness to be
                            gay and alluring to her. With him that was over now. He could not be
                            that way to any girl any more. He had to behavebe calm and circumspect.
                            It cut him, this thought. He saw at once it was not in accord with his
                            nature. He wanted to do just as he had always donemake love to Marietta
                            if she would let him, but he could not. He walked to the fire when the
                            studio door was closed.
                        "They're such nice boys," exclaimed Marietta.
                            "I think Mr. MacHugh is as funny as he can be. He has such
                            droll wit."
                        "Smite is nice too," replied Eugene defensively.
                        "They're both lovelyjust lovely," returned
                            Marietta.
                        "I like Mr. MacHugh a little the besthe's
                            quainter," said Angela, "but I think Mr. Smite is just
                            as nice as he can be. He's so old fashioned. There's
                            not anyone as nice as my Eugene, though," she said
                            affectionately, putting her arm about him.
                        "Oh, dear, you two!" exclaimed Marietta.
                            "Well, I'm going to bed."
                        Eugene sighed.
                        They had arranged a couch for her which could be put behind the
                            silver-spangled fish net in the alcove when company was gone.
                        Eugene thought what a pity that already this affection of
                            Angela's was old to him. It was not as it would be if he had
                            taken Marietta or Christina. They went to their bed room to retire and
                            then he saw that all he had was passion. Must he be satisfied with that?
                            Could he be? It started a chain of thought which, while persistently
                            interrupted or befogged, was really never broken. Momentary sympathy,
                            desire, admiration, might obscure it, but always fundamentally it was
                            there. He had made a mistake. He had put his head in a noose. He had
                            subjected himself to conditions which he did not sincerely approve of.
                            How was he going to remedy thisor could it ever be remedied?
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER III
                        
                            WHATEVER were Eugene's secret thoughts, he
                            began his married life with the outward air of one who takes it
                            seriously enough. Now that he was married, was actually bound by legal
                            ties, he felt that he might as well make the best of it. He had once had
                            the notion that it might be possible to say nothing of his marriage, and
                            keep Angela in the background, but this notion had been dispelled by the
                            attitude of MacHugh and Smite, to say nothing of Angela. So he began to
                            consider the necessity of notifying his friendsMiriam Finch and Norma
                            Whitmore and possibly Christina Channing, when she should return. These
                            three women offered the largest difficulty to his mind. He felt the
                            commentary which their personalities represented. What would they think
                            of him? What of Angela? Now that she was right here in the city he could
                            see that she represented a different order of thought. He had opened the
                            campaign by suggesting that they invite Smite and MacHugh. The thing to
                            do now was to go further in this matter.
                        The one thing that troubled him was the thought of breaking the news to
                            Miriam Finch, for Christina Channing was away, and Norma Whitmore was
                            not of sufficient importance. He argued now that he should have done
                            this beforehand, but having neglected that it behoved him to act at
                            once. He did so, finally, writing to Norma Whitmore and saying, for he
                            had no long explanation to make"Yours truly is married. May I
                            bring my wife up to see you?" Miss Whitmore was truly taken by
                            surprise. She was sorry at firstverybecause Eugene interested her
                            greatly and she was afraid he would make a mistake in his marriage; but
                            she hastened to make the best of a bad turn on the part of fate and
                            wrote a note which ran as follows: 
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            "Dear Eugene and Eugene's
                                                Wife:
                                        
                                        "This is news as is news. Congratulations. And I
                                            am coming right down as soon as I get my breath. And
                                            then you two must come to see me.
                                        
                                            "NORMA WHITMORE."
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        Eugene was pleased and grateful that she took it so nicely, but Angela
                            was the least big chagrined secretly that he had not told her before.
                            Why hadn't he? Was this someone that he  was interested in? Those three years in which she had
                            doubtingly waited for Eugene had whetted her suspicions and nurtured her
                            fears. Still she tried to make little of it and to put on an air of
                            joyousness. She would be so glad to meet Miss Whitmore. Eugene told her
                            how kind she had been to him, how much she admired his art, how helpful
                            she was in bringing together young literary and artistic people and how
                            influential with those who counted. She could do him many a good turn.
                            Angela listened patiently, but she was just the least bit resentful that
                            he should think so much of any one woman outside of herself. Why should
                            he, Eugene Witla, be dependent on the favor of any woman? Of course she
                            must be very nice and they would be good friends, but
                        Norma came one afternoon two days later with the atmosphere of enthusiasm
                            trailing, as it seemed to Eugene, like a cloud of glory about her. She
                            was both fire and strength to him in her regard and sympathy, even
                            though she resented, ever so slightly, his affectional desertion.
                        "You piggy-wiggy Eugene Witla," she exclaimed.
                            "What do you mean by running off and getting married and never
                            saying a word. I never even had a chance to get you a present and now I
                            have to bring it. Isn't this a charming placewhy it's
                            perfectly delightful," and as she laid her present down
                            unopened she looked about to see where Mrs. Eugene Witla might be.
                        Angela was in the bedroom finishing her toilet. She was expecting this
                            descent and so was prepared, being suitably dressed in the light green
                            house gown. When she heard Miss Whitmore's familiar mode of
                            address she winced, for this spoke volumes for a boon companionship of
                            long endurance. Eugene hadn't said so much of Miss Whitmore in
                            the past as he had recently, but she could see that they were very
                            intimate. She looked out and saw herthis tall, not very shapely, but
                            graceful woman, whose whole being represented dynamic energy, awareness,
                            subtlety of perception. Eugene was shaking her hand and looking genially
                            into her face.
                        "Why should Eugene like her so much?" she asked herself
                            instantly. "Why did his face shine with that light of intense
                            enthusiasm?" The "piggy-wiggy Eugene Witla"
                            expression irritated her. It sounded as though she might be in love with
                            him. She came out after a moment with a glad smile on her face and
                            approached with every show of good feeling, but Miss Whitmore could
                            sense opposition.
                        "So this is Mrs. Witla," she exclaimed, kissing her.
                            "I'm delighted to know you. I have always wondered
                            what sort of a  girl Mr. Witla would
                            marry. You'll just have to pardon my calling him Eugene.
                            I'll get over it after a bit, I suppose, now that he's
                            married. But we've been such good friends and I admire his work
                            so much. How do you like studio lifeor are you used to it
                            it?"
                        Angela, who was taking in every detail of Eugene's old friend,
                            replied in what seemed an affected tone that no, she wasn't
                            used to studio life: she was just from the county, you knowa regular
                            farmer girlBlackwood, Wisconsin, no less! She stopped to let Norma
                            express friendly surprise, and then went on to say that she supposed
                            Eugene had not said very much about her, but he wrote her often enough.
                            She was rejoicing in the fact that whatever slight Eugene's
                            previous silence seemed to put upon her, she had the satisfaction that
                            she had won him after all and Miss Whitmore had not. She fancied from
                            Miss Whitmore's enthusiastic attitude that she must like Eugene
                            very much, and she could see now what sort of women might have made him
                            wish to delay. Who were the others, she wondered?
                        They talked of metropolitan experiences generally. Marietta came in from
                            a shopping expedition with a Mrs. Link, wife of an army captain acting
                            as an instructor at West Point, and tea was served immediately
                            afterward. Miss Whitmore was insistent that they should come and take
                            dinner with her some evening. Eugene confided that he was sending a
                            painting to the Academy.
                        "They'll hang it, of course," assured Norma,
                            "but you ought to have an exhibition of your own."
                        Marietta gushed about the wonder of the big stores and so it finally came
                            time for Miss Whitmore to go.
                        "Now you will come up, won't you?" she said to
                            Angela, for in spite of a certain feeling of incompatibility and
                            difference she was determined to like her. She thought Angela a little
                            inexperienced and presumptuous in marrying Eugene. She was afraid she
                            was not up to his standard. Still she was quaint, piquant. Perhaps she
                            would do very well. Angela was thinking all the while that Miss Whitmore
                            was presuming on her old acquaintance with Eugenethat she was too
                            affected and enthusinstic.
                        There was another day on which Miriam Finch called. Richard Wheeler,
                            having learned at Smite's and MacHugh's studio of
                            Eugene's marriage and present whereabouts, had hurried over,
                            and then immediately afterwards off to Miriam Finch's studio.
                            Surprised himself, he knew that she would be more so.
                        "Witla's married!" he exclaimed, bursting into
                            her room, and  for the moment Miriam lost
                            her self-possession sufficiently to reply almost dramatically:
                            "Richard Wheeler, what are you talking about! You
                            don't mean that, do you?"
                        "He's married," insisted Wheeler,
                            "and he's living down in Washington Square, 61 is the
                            number. He has the cutest yellow-haired wife you ever saw."
                        Angela had been nice to Wheeler and he liked her. He liked the air of
                            this domicile and thought it was going to be a good thing for Eugene. He
                            needed to settle down and work hard.
                        Miriam winced mentally at the picture. She was hurt by this deception of
                            Eugene's, chagrined because he had not thought enough of her
                            even to indicate that he was going to get married.
                        "He's been married ten days," communicated
                            Wheeler, and this added force to her temporary chagrin. The fact that
                            Angela was yellow-haired and cute was also disturbing.
                        "Well," she finally exclaimed cheerfully, "he
                            might have said something to us, mightn't he?" and she
                            covered her own original confusion by a gay nonchalance which showed
                            nothing of what she was really thinking. This was certainly indifference
                            on Eugene's part, and yet, why shouldn't he? He had
                            never proposed to her. Still they had been so intimate mentally.
                        She was interested to see Angela. She wondered what sort of a woman she
                            really was. "Yellow-haired! Cute!" Of course, like all
                            men, Eugene had sacrificed intellect and mental charm for a dainty form
                            and a pretty face. It seemed queer, but she had fancied that he would
                            not do thatthat his wife, if he ever took one, would be tall perhaps,
                            and gracious, and of a beautiful mindsomeone distinguished.
                            "Why would men, intellectual men, artistic men, any kind of
                            men, invariably make fools of themselves! "Well, she would go
                            and see her.
                        Because Wheeler informed him that he had told Miriam, Eugene wrote,
                            saying as briefly as possible that he was married and that he wanted to
                            bring Angela to her studio. For reply she came herself, gay, smiling,
                            immaculately dressed, anxious to hurt Angela because she had proved the
                            victor. She also wanted to show Eugene how little difference it all made
                            to her.
                        "You certainly are a secretive young man, Mr. Eugene
                            Witla," she exclaimed, when she saw him. "Why
                            didn't you make him tell us, Mrs. Witla?" she demanded
                            archly of Angela, but with a secret dagger thrust in her eyes.
                            "You'd think he didn't want us to
                            know."
                        Angela cowered beneath the sting of this whip cord. Miriam made her feel
                            as though Eugene had attempted to conceal his  relationship to heras though he was ashamed of her. How
                            many more women were there like Miriam and Norma Whitmore?
                        Eugene was gaily unconscious of the real animus in Miriam's
                            conversation, and now that the first cruel moment was over, was talking
                            glibly of things in general, anxious to make everything seem as simple
                            and natural as possible. He was working at one of his pictures when
                            Miriam came in and was eager to obtain her critical opinion, since it
                            was nearly done. She squinted at it narrowly but said nothing when he
                            asked. Ordinarily she would have applauded it vigorously. She did think
                            it exceptional, but was determined to say nothing. She walked
                            indifferently about, examining this and that object in a superior way,
                            asking how he came to obtain the studio, congratulating him upon his
                            good luck. Angela, she decided, was interesting, but not in
                            Eugene's class mentally, and should be ignored. He had made a
                            mistake, that was plain.
                        "Now you must bring Mrs. Witla up to see me," she said
                            on leaving. "I'll play and sing all my latest songs
                            for you. I have made some of the daintest discoveries in old Italian and
                            Spanish pieces."
                        Angela, who had posed to Eugene as knowing something about music,
                            resented this superior invitation, without inquiry as to her own
                            possible ability or taste, as she did Miriam's entire attitude.
                            Why was she so haughtyso superior? What was it to her whether Eugene had
                            said anything about her or not?
                        She said nothing to show that she herself played, but she wondered that
                            Eugene said nothing. It seemed neglectful and inconsiderate of him. He
                            was busy wondering what Miriam thought of his picture. Miriam took his
                            hand warmly at parting, looked cheerfully into his eyes, and said,
                            "I know you two are going to be irrationally happy,"
                            and went out.
                        Eugene felt the irritation at last. He knew Angela felt something. Miriam
                            was resentful, that was it. She was angry at him for his seeming
                            indifference. She had commented to herself on Angela's
                            appearance and to her disadvantage. In her manner had been the statement
                            that his wife was not very important after all, not of the artistic and
                            superior world to which she and he belonged.
                        "How do you like her?" he asked tentatively after she
                            had gone, feeling a strong current of opposition, but not knowing on
                            what it might be based exactly.
                        "I don't like her," returned Angela
                            petulantly. "She thinks she's sweet. She treats you as
                            though she thought you were her  personal
                            property. She openly insulted me about your not telling her. Miss
                            Whitmore did the same thingthey all do! They all will!
                            Oh!!"
                        She suddenly burst into tears and ran crying toward their bedroom.
                        Eugene followed, astonished, ashamed, rebuked, guilty minded, almost
                            terror-strickenhe hardly knew what.
                        "Why, Angela," he urged pleadingly, leaning over her
                            and attempting to raise her. "You know that isn't
                            true."
                        "It is! It is!!" she insisted. "Don't
                            touch me! Don't come near me! You know it is true! You
                            don't love me. You haven't treated me right at all
                            since I've been here. You haven't done anything that
                            you should have done. She insulted me openly to my face."
                        She was speaking with sobs, and Eugene was at once pained and terrorized
                            by the persistent and unexpected display of emotion. He had never seen
                            Angela like this before. He had never seen any woman so.
                        "Why, Angelface," he urged, "how can you go on
                            like this? You know what you say isn't true. What have I
                            done?"
                        "You haven't told your friendsthat's what you
                            haven't done," she exclaimed between gasps.
                            "They still think you're single. You keep me here
                            hidden in the background as though I were awere aI don't know
                            what! Your friends come and insult me openly to my face. They do! They
                            do! Oh!" and she sobbed anew.
                        She knew very well what she was doing in her anger and rage. She felt
                            that she was acting in the right way. Eugene needed a severe reproof; he
                            had acted very badly, and this was the way to administer it to him now
                            in the beginning. His conduct was indefensible, and only the fact that
                            he was an artist, immersed in cloudy artistic thoughts and not really
                            subject to the ordinary conventions of life, saved him in her
                            estimation. It didn't matter that she had urged him to marry
                            her. It didn't absolve him that he had done so. She thought he
                            owed her that. Anyhow they were married now, and he should do the proper
                            thing.
                        Eugene stood there cut as with a knife by this terrific charge. He had
                            not meant anything by concealing her presence, he thought. He had only
                            endeavored to protect himself very slightly, temporarily.
                        "You oughtn't to say that, Angela," he
                            pleaded. "There aren't any more that don't
                            knowat least any more that I care anything about. I didn't
                            think. I didn't mean to conceal 
                            anything, I'll write to everybody that might be
                            interested."
                        He still felt hurt that she should brutally attack him this way even in
                            her sorrow. He was wrong, no doubt, but she? Was this a way to act, this
                            the nature of true love? He mentally writhed and twisted.
                        Taking her up in his arms, smoothing her hair, he asked her to forgive
                            him. Finally, when she thought she had punished him enough, and that he
                            was truly sorry and would make amends in the future, she pretended to
                            listen and then of a sudden threw her arms about his neck and began to
                            hug and kiss him. Passion, of course, was the end of this, but the whole
                            thing left a disagreeable taste in Eugene's mouth. He did not
                            like scenes. He preferred the lofty indifference of Miriam, the gay
                            subterfuge of Norma, the supreme stoicism of Christina Channing. This
                            noisy, tempestuous, angry emotion was not quite the thing to have
                            introduced into his life. He did not see how that would make for love
                            between them.
                        Still Angela was sweet, he thought. She was a little girlnot as wise as
                            Norma Whitmore, not as self-protective as Miriam Finch or Christina
                            Channing. Perhaps after all she needed his care and affection. Maybe it
                            was best for her and for him that he had married her.
                        So thinking he rocked her in his arms, and Angela, lying there, was
                            satisfied. She had won a most important victory. She was starting right.
                            She was starting Eugene right. She would get the moral, mental and
                            emotional upper hand of him and keep it. Then these women, who thought
                            themselves so superior, could go their way. She would have Eugene and he
                            would be a great man and she would be his wife. That was all she
                            wanted.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER IV
                        
                            THE result of Angela's outburst was that
                            Eugene hastened to notify those whom he had not already
                            informedShotmeyer, his father and mother, Sylvia, Myrtle, Hudson Dulaand
                            received in return cards and letters of congratulation expressing
                            surprise and interest, which he presented to Angela in a conciliatory
                            spirit. She realized, after it was all over, that she had given him an
                            unpleasant shock, and was anxious to make up to him in personal
                            affection what she had apparently compelled him to suffer for
                            policy's sake. Eugene did not know that in Angela, despite her
                            smallness of body and what seemed to him her babyishness of spirit, he
                            had to deal with a thinking woman who was quite wise as to ways and
                            means of handling her personal affairs. She was, of course, whirled in
                            the maelstrom of her affection for Eugene and this was confusing, and
                            she did not understand the emotional and philosophic reaches of his
                            mind; but she did understand instinctively what made for a stable
                            relationship between husband and wife and between any married couple and
                            the world. To her the utterance of the marriage vow meant just what it
                            said, that they would cleave each to the other; there should be
                            henceforth no thoughts, feelings, or emotions, and decidedly no actions
                            which would not conform with the letter and the spirit of the marriage
                            vow.
                        Eugene had sensed something of this, but not accurately or completely. He
                            did not correctly estimate either the courage or the rigidity of her
                            beliefs and convictions. He thought that her character might possibly
                            partake of some of his own easy tolerance and good nature. She must know
                            that peoplemen particularlywere more or less unstable in their make-up.
                            Life could not be governed by hard and fast rules. Why, everybody knew
                            that. You might try, and should hold yourself in check as much as
                            possible for the sake of self-preservation and social appearances, but
                            if you erredand you might easilyit was no crime. Certainly it was no
                            crime to look at another woman longingly. If you went astray,
                            overbalanced by your desires, wasn't it after all in the scheme
                            of things? Did we make our desires? Certainly we did not, and if we did
                            not succeed completely in controlling themwell
                        The drift of life into which they now settled was interesting  enough, though for Eugene it was
                            complicated with the thought of possible failure, for he was, as might
                            well be expected of such a temperament, of a worrying nature, and
                            inclined, in his hours of ordinary effort, to look on the dark side of
                            things. The fact that he had married Angela against his will, the fact
                            that he had no definite art connections which produced him as yet
                            anything more than two thousand dollars a year, the fact that he had
                            assumed financial obligations which doubled the cost of food, clothing,
                            entertainment, and rentfor their studio was costing him thirty dollars
                            more than had his share of the Smite-MacHugh chambersweighed on him. The
                            dinner which he had given to Smite and MacHugh had cost about eight
                            dollars over and above the ordinary expenses of the week. Others of a
                            similar character would cost as much and more. He would have to take
                            Angela to the theatre occasionally. There would be the need of
                            furnishing a new studio the following fall, unless another such windfall
                            as this manifested itself. Although Angela had equipped herself with a
                            varied and serviceable trousseau, her clothes would not last forever.
                            Odd necessities began to crop up not long after they were married, and
                            he began to see that if they lived with anything like the freedom and
                            care with which he had before he was married, his income would have to
                            be larger and surer.
                        The energy which these thoughts provoked was not without result. For one
                            thing he sent the original of the East Side picture, "Six
                            O'clock" to the American Academy of Design exhibitiona
                            thing which he might have done long before but failed to do.
                        Angela had heard from Eugene that the National Academy of Design was a
                            forum for the display of art to which the public was invited or admitted
                            for a charge. To have a picture accepted by this society and hung on the
                            line was in its way a mark of merit and approval, though Eugene did not
                            think very highly of it. All the pictures were judged by a jury of
                            artists which decided whether they should be admitted or rejected, and
                            if admitted whether they should be given a place of honor or hung in
                            some inconspicuous position. To be hung "on the line"
                            was to have your picture placed in the lower tier where the light was
                            excellent and the public could get a good view of it. Eugene had thought
                            the first two years he was in New York that he was really not
                            sufficiently experienced or meritorious, and the previous year he had
                            thought that he would hoard all that he was doing for his first
                            appearance in some exhibition of his own, thinking the National Academy
                            commonplace  and retrogressive. The
                            exhibitions he had seen thus far had been full of commonplace,
                            dead-and-alive stuff, he thought. It was no great honor to be admitted
                            to such a collection. Now, because MacHugh was trying, and because he
                            had accumulated nearly enough pictures for exhibition at a private
                            gallery which he hoped to interest, he was anxious to see what the
                            standard body of American artists thought of his work. They might reject
                            him. If so that would merely prove that they did not recognize a radical
                            departure from accepted methods and subject matter as art. The
                            impressionists, he understood, were being so ignored. Later they would
                            accept him. If he were admitted it would simply mean that they knew
                            better than he believed they did.
                        "I believe I will do it," he said;
                            "I'd like to know what they think of my stuff
                            anyhow."
                        The picture was sent as he had planned, and to his immense satisfaction
                            it was accepted and hung. It did not, for some reason, attract as much
                            attention as it might, but it was not without its modicum of praise.
                            Owen Overman, the poet, met him in the general reception entrance of the
                            Academy on the opening night, and, congratulated him sincerely.
                            "I remember seeing that in Truth,"
                            he said, "but it's much better in the original.
                            It's fine. You ought to do a lot of those things."
                        "I am," replied Eugene. "I expect to have a
                            show of my own one of these days."
                        He called Angela, who had wandered away to look at a piece of statuary,
                            and introduced her.
                        "I was just telling your husband how much I like his
                            picture," Overman informed her.
                        Angela was flattered that her husband was so much of a personage that he
                            could have his picture hung in a great exhibition such as this, with its
                            walls crowded with what seemed to her magnificent canvases, and its
                            rooms filled with important and distinguished people. As they strolled
                            about Eugene pointed out to her this well known artist and that writer,
                            saying almost always that they were very able. He knew three or four of
                            the celebrated collectors, prize givers, and art patrons by sight, and
                            told Angela who they were. There were a number of striking looking
                            models present whom Eugene knew either by reputation, whispered comment
                            of friends, or personallyZelma Desmond, who had posed for Eugene, Hedda
                            Anderson, Anna Magruder and Laura Matthewson among others. Angela was
                            struck and in a way taken by the dash and beauty of these girls. They
                            carried themselves with an air of personal freedom  and courage which surprised her. Hedda Anderson was bold
                            in her appearance but immensely smart. Her manner seemed to comment on
                            the ordinary woman as being indifferent and not worth while. She looked
                            at Angela walking with Eugene and wondered who she was.
                        "Isn't she striking," observed Angela, not
                            knowing she was anyone whom Eugene knew.
                        "I know her well," he replied; "she's
                            a model."
                        Just then Miss Anderson in return for his nod gave him a fetching smile.
                            Angela chilled.
                        Elizabeth Stein passed by and he nodded to her.
                        "Who is she?" asked Angela.
                        "She's a socialist agitator and radical. She sometimes
                            speaks from a soap-box on the East Side."
                        Angela studied her carefully. Her waxen complexion, smooth black hair
                            laid in even plaits over her forehead, her straight, thin, chiseled
                            nose, even red lips and low forehead indicated a daring and subtle soul.
                            Angela did not understand her. She could not understand a girl as good
                            looking as that doing any such thing as Eugene said, and yet she had a
                            bold, rather free and easy air. She thought Eugene certainly knew
                            strange people. He introduced to her William McConnell, Hudson Dula, who
                            had not yet been to see them, Jan Jansen, Louis Deesa, Leonard Baker and
                            Paynter Stone.
                        In regard to Eugene's picture the papers, with one exception,
                            had nothing to say, but this one in both Eugene's and
                            Angela's minds made up for all the others. It was the Evening Sun, a most excellent medium for art opinion,
                            and it was very definite in its conclusions in regard to this particular
                            work. The statement was:
                        "A new painter, Eugene Witla, has an oil entitled 'Six
                            O'clock' which for directness, virility, sympathy,
                            faithfulness to detail and what for want of a better term we may call
                            totality of spirit, is quite the best thing in the exhibition. It looks
                            rather out of place surrounded by the weak and spindling interpretations
                            of scenery and water which so readily find a place in the exhibition of
                            the Academy, but it is none the weaker for that. The artist has a new,
                            crude, raw and almost rough method, but his picture seems to say quite
                            clearly what he sees and feels. He may have to waitif this is not a
                            single burst of ability but he will have a hearing. There is no question
                            of that. Eugene Witla is an artist."
                        Eugene thrilled when he read this commentary. It was quite what he would
                            have said himself if he had dared. Angela 
                            was beside herself with joy. Who was the critic who had said this, they
                            wondered? What was he like? He must be truly an intellectual personage.
                            Eugene wanted to go and look him up. If one saw his talent now, others
                            would see it later. It was for this reasonthough the picture
                            subsequently came back to him unsold, and unmentioned so far as merit or
                            prizes were concernedthat he decided to try for an exhibition of his
                            own.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER V
                        
                            THE hope of famewhat hours of speculation, what pulses
                            of enthusiasm, what fevers of effort, are based on that peculiarly
                            subtle illusion! It is yet the lure, the ignis fatuus of almost every
                            breathing heart. In the young particularly it burns with the sweetness
                            and perfume of spring fires. Then most of all does there seem
                            substantial reality in the shadow of famethose deep, beautiful illusions
                            which tremendous figures throw over the world. Attainable, it seems,
                            must be the peace and plenty and sweet content of famethat glamour of
                            achievement that never was on sea or land. Fame partakes of the beauty
                            and freshness of the morning. It has in it the odour of the rose, the
                            feel of rich satin, the color of the cheeks of youth. If we could but be
                            famous when we dream of fame, and not when locks are tinged with grey,
                            faces seamed with the lines that speak of past struggles, and eyes
                            wearied with the tensity, the longings and the despairs of years! To
                            bestride the world in the morning of life, to walk amid the plaudits and
                            the huzzahs when love and faith are young; to feel youth and the
                            world's affection when youth and health are sweetwhat dream is
                            that, of pure sunlight and moonlight compounded. A sun-kissed breath of
                            mist in the sky; the reflection of moonlight upon water; the remembrance
                            of dreams to the waking mindof such is fame in our youth, and never
                            afterward.
                        By such an illusion was Eugene's mind possessed. He had no
                            conception of what life would bring him for his efforts. He thought if
                            he could have his pictures hung in a Fifth Avenue gallery much as he had
                            seen Bouguereau's "Venus" in Chicago, with
                            people coming as he had come on that occasionit would be of great
                            comfort and satisfaction to him. If he could paint something which would
                            be purchased by the Metropolitan Museum in New York he would then be
                            somewhat of a classic figure, ranking with Corot and Daubigny and
                            Rousseau of the French or with Turner and Watts and Millais of the
                            English, the leading artistic figures of his pantheon. These men seemed
                            to have something which he did not have, he thought, a greater breadth
                            of technique, a finer comprehension of color and character, a feeling
                            for the subtleties at the back of life which somehow showed through what
                            they did. Larger experience, larger vision, larger feelingthese things
                            seemed to be imminent  in the great
                            pictures exhibited here, and it made him a little uncertain of himself.
                            Only the criticism in the Evening Sun fortified him
                            against all thought of failure. He was an artist.
                        
                        He gathered up the various oils he had donethere were some twenty-six all
                            told now, scenes of the rivers, the streets, the night life, and so
                            forthand went over them carefully, touching up details which in the
                            beginning he had merely sketched or indicated, adding to the force of a
                            spot of color here, modifying a tone or shade there, and finally, after
                            much brooding over the possible result, set forth to find a gallery
                            which would give them place and commercial approval.
                        Eugene's feeling was that they were a little raw and sketchythat
                            they might not have sufficient human appeal, seeing that they dealt with
                            factory architecture at times, scows, tugs, engines, the elevated roads
                            in raw reds, yellows and blacks; but MacHugh, Dula, Smite, Miss Finch,
                            Christina, the Evening Sun, Norma Whitmore, all had
                            praised them, or some of them. Was not the world much more interested in
                            the form and spirit of classic beauty such as that represented by Sir
                            John Millais? Would it not prefer Rossetti's "Blessed
                            Damozel" to any street scene ever painted? He could never be
                            sure. In the very hour of his triumph when the Sun had
                            just praised his picture, there lurked the spectre of possible intrinsic
                            weakness. Did the world wish this sort of thing? Would it ever buy of
                            him? Was he of any real value?
                        "No, artist heart!" one might have answered,
                            "of no more value than any other worker of existence and no
                            less. The sunlight on the corn, the color of dawn in the maid's
                            cheek, the moonlight on the waterthese are of value and of no value
                            according to the soul to whom is the appeal. Fear not. Of dreams and the
                            beauty of dreams is the world compounded."
                        Kellner and Son, purveyors of artistic treasures by both past and present
                            masters, with offices in Fifth Avenue near Twenty-eighth Street, was the
                            one truly significant firm of art-dealers in the city. The pictures in
                            the windows of Kellner and Son, the exhibitions in their very exclusive
                            show rooms, the general approval which their discriminating taste
                            evoked, had attracted the attention of artists and the lay public for
                            fully thirty years. Eugene had followed their shows with interest ever
                            since he had been in New York. He had seen, every now and then, a most
                            astonishing picture of one school or another displayed in their imposing
                            shop window, and had heard artists comment from time to time on other
                            things there with considerable enthusiasm. The first important picture
                            of the  impressionistic schoola heavy
                            spring rain in a grove of silver poplars by Winthrophad been shown in
                            the window of this firm, fascinating Eugene with its technique. He had
                            encountered here collections of Aubrey Beardsley's decadent
                            drawings, of Helleu's silverpoints, of Rodin's
                            astonishing sculptures and Thaulow's solid Scandinavian
                            eclecticism. This house appeared to have capable artistic connections
                            all over the world, for the latest art force in Italy, Spain,
                            Switzerland, or Sweden, was quite as likely to find its timely
                            expression here as the more accredited work of England, Germany or
                            France. Kellner and Son were art connoisseurs in the best sense of the
                            word, and although the German founder of the house had died many years
                            before, its management and taste had never deteriorated.
                        Eugene did not know at this time how very difficult it was to obtain an
                            exhibition under Kellner's auspices, they being over-crowded
                            with offers of art material and appeals for display from celebrated
                            artists who were quite willing and able to pay for the space and time
                            they occupied. A fixed charge was made, never deviated from except in
                            rare instances where the talent of the artist, his poverty, and the
                            advisability of the exhibition were extreme. Two hundred dollars was
                            considered little enough for the use of one of their show rooms for ten
                            days.
                        Eugene had no such sum to spare, but one day in January, without any real
                            knowledge as to what the conditions were, he carried four of the
                            reproductions which had been made from time to time in Truth to the office of Mr. Kellner, certain that he had
                            something to show. Miss Whitmore had indicated to him that Eberhard Zang
                            wanted him to come and see him, but he thought if he was going anywhere
                            he would prefer to go to Kellner and Son. He wanted to explain to Mr.
                            Kellner, if there were such a person, that he had many more paintings
                            which he considered even bettermore expressive of his growing
                            understanding of American life and of himself and his technique. He went
                            in timidly, albeit with quite an air, for this adventure disturbed him
                            much.
                        The American manager of Kellner and Son, M. Anatole Charles, was a
                            Frenchman by birth and training, familiar with the spirit and history of
                            French art, and with the drift and tendency of art in various other
                            sections of the world. He had been sent here by the home office in
                            Berlin not only because of his very thorough training in English art
                            ways, and because of his ability to select that type of picture which
                            would attract attention and bring credit and prosperity to the house
                            here and abroad; but also because of his ability to make friends among
                                 the rich and powerful wherever he
                            was, and to sell one type of important picture after anotherhaving some
                            knack or magnetic capacity for attracting to him those who cared for
                            good art and were willing to pay for it. His specialties, of course,
                            were the canvases of the eminently successful artists in various parts
                            of the worldthe living successful. He knew by experience what soldhere,
                            in France, in England, in Germany. He was convinced that there was
                            practically nothing of value in American art as yetcertainly not from
                            the commercial point of view, and very little from the artistic. Beyond
                            a few canvases by Inness, Homer, Sargent, Abbey, Whistler, men who were
                            more foreign, or rather universal, than American in their attitude, he
                            considered that the American art spirit was as yet young and raw and
                            crude. "They do not seem to be grown up as yet over
                            here," he said to his intimate friends. "They paint
                            little things in a forceful way, but they do not seem as yet to see
                            things as a whole. I miss that sense of the universe in miniature which
                            we find in the canvases of so many of the great Europeans. They are
                            better illustrators than artists over herewhy I don't
                            know."
                        M. Anatole Charles spoke English almost more than perfectly. He was an
                            example of your true man of the worldpolished, dignified, immaculately
                            dressed, conservative in thought and of few words in expression. Critics
                            and art enthusiasts were constantly running to him with this and that
                            suggestion in regard to this and that artist, but he only lifted his
                            sophisticated eyebrows, curled his superior mustachios, pulled at his
                            highly artistic goatee, and exclaimed: "Ah!" or
                            "So?" He asserted always that he was most anxious to
                            find talentprofitable talentthough on occasion (and he would demonstrate
                            that by an outward wave of his hands and a shrug of his shoulders), the
                            house of Kellner and Son was not averse to doing what it could for
                            artand that for art's sake without any thought of profit
                            whatsoever. "Where are your artists?" he would ask.
                            "I look and look. Whistler, Abbey, Inness, Sargentahthey are
                            old, where are the new ones?"
                        "Well, this one"the critic would probably persist.
                        "Well, well, I go. I shall look. But I have little hopevery,
                            very little hope."
                        He was constantly appearing under such pressure, at this studio and
                            thatexamining, criticising. Alas, he selected the work of but few
                            artists for purposes of public exhibition and usually charged them well
                            for it.
                        It was this man, polished, artistically superb in his way, whom  Eugene was destined to meet this morning.
                            When he entered the sumptuously furnished office of M. Charles the
                            latter arose. He was seated at a little rosewood desk lighted by a lamp
                            with green silk shade. One glance told him that Eugene was an artistvery
                            likely of ability, more than likely of a sensitive, high-strung nature.
                            He had long since learned that politeness and savoir faire cost nothing.
                            It was the first essential so far as the good will of an artist was
                            concerned. Eugene's card and message brought by a uniformed
                            attendant had indicated the nature of his business. As he approached, M.
                            Charles' raised eyebrows indicated that he would be very
                            pleased to know what he could do for Mr. Witla.
                        "I should like to show you several reproductions of pictures of
                            mine," began Eugene in his most courageous manner. "I
                            have been working on a number with a view to making a show and I thought
                            that possibly you might be interested in looking at them with a view to
                            displaying them for me. I have twenty-six all told and"
                        "Ah! that is a difficult thing to suggest," replied M.
                            Charles cautiously "We have a great many exhibitions scheduled
                            nowenough to carry us through two years if we considered nothing more.
                            Obligations to artists with whom we have dealt in the past take up a
                            great deal of our time. Contracts, which our Berlin and Paris branches
                            enter into, sometimes crowd out our local shows entirely. Of course, we
                            are always anxious to make interesting exhibitions if opportunity should
                            permit. You know our charges?"
                        "No," said Eugene, surprised that there should be
                            any.
                        "Two hundred dollars for two weeks. We do not take exhibitions
                            for less than that time."
                        Eugene's countenance fell. He had expected quite a different
                            reception. Nevertheless, since he had brought them, he untied the tape
                            of the portfolio in which the prints were laid.
                        M. Charles looked at them curiously. He was much impressed with the
                            picture of the East Side Crowd at first, but looking at one of Fifth
                            Avenue in a snow storm, the battered, shabby bus pulled by a team of
                            lean, unkempt, bony horses, he paused, struck by its force. He liked the
                            delineation of swirling, winddriven snow. The emptiness of this
                            thoroughfare, usually so crowded, the buttoned, huddled, hunched,
                            withdrawn look of those who traveled it, the exceptional details of
                            piles of snow sifted on to window sills and ledges and into doorways and
                            on to the windows of the bus itself, attracted his attention.
                        "An effective detail," he said to Eugene, as one critic
                            might  say to another, pointing to a line
                            of white snow on the window of one side of the bus. Another dash of snow
                            on a man's hat rim took his eye also. "I can feel the
                            wind," he added.
                        Eugene smiled.
                        M. Charles passed on in silence to the steaming tug coming up the East
                            River in the dark hauling two great freight barges. He was saying to
                            himself that after all Eugene's art was that of merely seizing
                            upon the obviously dramatic. It wasn't so much the art of color
                            composition and life analysis as it was stage craft. The man before him
                            had the ability to see the dramatic side of life. Still
                        He turned to the last reproduction which was that of Greeley Square in a
                            drizzling rain. Eugene by some mystery of his art had caught the exact
                            texture of seeping water on gray stones in the glare of various electric
                            lights. He had caught the values of various kinds of lights, those in
                            cabs, those in cable cars, those in shop windows, those in the street
                            lamprelieving by them the black shadows of the crowds and of the sky.
                            The color work here was unmistakably good.
                        "How large are the originals of these?" he asked
                            thoughtfully.
                        "Nearly all of them thirty by forty."
                        Eugene could not tell by his manner whether he were merely curious or
                            interested.
                        "All of them done in oil, I fancy.
                        "Yes, all."
                        "They are not bad, I must say," he observed cautiously.
                            "A little persistently dramatic but"
                        "These reproductions" began Eugene, hoping by
                            criticising the press work to interest him in the superior quality of
                            the originals.
                        "Yes, I see," M. Charles interrupted, knowing full well
                            what was coming. "They are very bad. Still they show well
                            enough what the originals are like. Where is your studio?"
                        "61 Washington Square."
                        "As I say," went on M. Charles, noting the address on
                            Eugene's card, "the opportunity for exhibition
                            purposes is very limited and our charge is rather high. We have so many
                            things we would like to exhibitso many things we must exhibit. It is
                            hard to say when the situation would permitIf you are interested I might
                            come and see them sometime."
                        Eugene looked perturbed. Two hundred dollars! Two hundred dollars! Could
                            he afford it? It would mean so much to him. And yet the man was not at
                            all anxious to rent him the show room even at this price.
                        
                        "I will come," said M. Charles, seeing his mood,
                            "if you wish. That is what you want me to do. We have to be
                            careful of what we exhibit here. It isn't as if it were an
                            ordinary show room. I will drop you a card some day when occasion
                            offerss, if you wish, and you can let me know whether the time I suggest
                            is all right. I am rather anxious to see these scenes of yours. They are
                            very good of their kind. It may beone never can tellan opportunity might
                            offera week or ten days, somewhere in between other
                            things."
                        Eugene sighed inwardly. So this was how these things were done. It
                            wasn't very flattering. Still, he must have an exhibition. He
                            could afford two hundred if he had to. An exhibition elsewhere would not
                            be so valuable. He had expected to make a better impression than
                            this.
                        "I wish you would come," he said at last meditatively.
                            "I think I should like the space if I can get it. I would like
                            to know what you think."
                        M. Charles raised his eyebrows.
                        "Very well," he said, "I will communicate with
                            you."
                        Eugene went out.
                        What a poor thing this exhibiting business was, he thought. Here he had
                            been dreaming of an exhibition at Kellners which should be brought about
                            without charge to him because they were tremendously impressed with his
                            work. Now they did not even want his pictureswould charge him two
                            hundred dollars to show them. It was a great come downvery
                            discouraging.
                        Still he went home thinking it would do him some good. The critics would
                            discuss his work just as they did that of other artists. They would have
                            to see what he could do should it be that at last this thing which he
                            had dreamed of and so deliberately planned had come true. He had thought
                            of an exhibition at Kellner's as the last joyous thing to be
                            attained in the world of rising art and now it looked as though he was
                            near it. It might actually be coming to pass. This man wanted to see the
                            rest of his work. He was not opposed to looking at them, What a triumph
                            even that was!
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER VI
                        
                            IT was some little time before M. Charles condescended
                            to write saying that if it was agreeable he would call Wednesday
                            morning, January 16th, at 10 A. M., but the letter finally did come and
                            this dispelled all his intermediary doubts and fears. At last he was to
                            have a hearing! This man might see something in his work, possibly take
                            a fancy to it. Who could tell? He showed the letter to Angela with an
                            easy air as though it were quite a matter of course, but he felt
                            intensely hopeful.
                        Angela put the studio in perfect order for she knew what this visit meant
                            to Eugene, and in her eager, faithful way was anxious to help him as
                            much as possible. She bought flowers from the Italian florist at the
                            corner and put them in vases here and there. She swept and dusted,
                            dressed herself immaculately in her most becoming house dress and waited
                            with nerves at high tension for the fateful ring of the door bell.
                            Eugene pretended to work at one of his pictures which he had done long
                            beforethe raw jangling wall of an East Side street with its swarms of
                            children, its shabby push-carts, its mass of eager, shuffling, pushing
                            mortals, the sense of rugged ground life running all through it, but he
                            had no heart for the work. He was asking himself over and over what M.
                            Charles would think. Thank heaven this studio looked so charming! Thank
                            heaven Angela was so dainty in her pale green gown with a single red
                            coral pin at her throat. He walked to the window and stared out at
                            Washington Square, with its bare, wind-shaken branches of trees, its
                            snow, its ant-like pedestrians hurrying here and there. If he were only
                            richhow peacefully he would paint! M. Charles could go to the devil.
                        The door bell rang.
                        Angela clicked a button and up came M. Charles quietly. They could hear
                            his steps in the hall. He knocked and Eugene answered, decidedly nervous
                            in his mind, but outwardly calm and dignified. M. Charles entered, clad
                            in a fur-lined overcoat, fur cap and yellow chamois gloves.
                        "Ah, good morning!" said M. Charles in greeting.
                            "A fine bracing day, isn't it? What a charming view
                            you have here. Mrs. Witla! I'm delighted to meet you. I am a
                            little  late but I was unavoidably
                            detained. One of our German associates is in the city."
                        He divested himself of his great coat and rubbed his hands before the
                            fire. He tried, now that he had unbent so far, to be genial and
                            considerate. If he and Eugene were to do any business in the future it
                            must be so. Besides the picture on the easel before him, near the
                            window, which for the time being he pretended not to see, was an
                            astonishingly virile thing. Of whose work did it remind
                            himanybody's? He confessed to himself as he stirred around
                            among his numerous art memories that he recalled nothing exactly like
                            it. Raw reds, raw greens, dirty grey paving stonessuch faces! Why this
                            thing fairly shouted its facts. It seemed to say: "I'm
                            dirty, I am commonplace, I am grim, I am shabby, but I am
                            life." And there was no apologizing for anything in it, no
                            glossing anything over. Bang! Smash! Crack! came the facts one after
                            another, with a bitter, brutal insistence on their so-ness. Why, on
                            moody days when he had felt sour and depressed he had seen somewhere a
                            street that looked like this, and there it wasdirty, sad, slovenly,
                            immoral, drunkenanything, everything, but here it was. "Thank
                            God for a realist," he said to himself as he looked, for he
                            knew life, this cold connoisseur; but he made no sign. He looked at the
                            tall, slim frame of Eugene, his cheeks slightly sunken, his eyes
                            brightan artist every inch of him, and then at Angela, small, eager, a
                            sweet, loving, little woman, and he was glad that he was going to be
                            able to say that he would exhibit these things.
                        "Well," he said, pretending to look at the picture on
                            the easel for the first time, "we might as well begin to look
                            at these things. I see you have one here. Very good, I think, quite
                            forceful. What others have you?"
                        Eugene was afraid this one hadn't appealed to him as much as he
                            hoped it would, and set it aside quickly, picking up the second in the
                            stock which stood against the wall, covered by a green curtain. It was
                            the three engines entering the great freight yard abreast, the smoke of
                            the engines towering straight up like tall whitish-grey plumes, in the
                            damp, cold air, the sky lowering with blackish-grey clouds, the red and
                            yellow and blue cars standing out in the sodden darkness because of the
                            water. You could feel the cold, wet drizzle, the soppy tracks, the
                            weariness of "throwing switches." There was a lone
                            brakeman in the foreground, "throwing" a red brake
                            signal. He was quite black and evidently wet.
                        "A symphony in grey," said M. Charles succinctly.
                        
                        They came swiftly after this, without much comment from either, Eugene
                            putting one canvas after another before him, leaving it for a few
                            moments and replacing it with another. His estimate of his own work did
                            not rise very rapidly, for M. Charles was persistently distant, but the
                            latter could not help voicing approval of "After The
                            Theatre," a painting full of the wonder and bustle of a night
                            crowd under sputtering electric lamps. He saw that Eugene had covered
                            almost every phase of what might be called the dramatic spectacle in the
                            public life of the city and much that did not appear dramatic until he
                            touched itthe empty canyon of Broadway at three o'clock in the
                            morning; a long line of giant milk wagons, swinging curious lanterns,
                            coming up from the docks at four o'clock in the morning; a
                            plunging parade of fire vehicles, the engines steaming smoke, the people
                            running or staring open-mouthed; a crowd of polite society figures
                            emerging from the opera; the bread line; an Italian boy throwing pigeons
                            in the air from a basket on his arm in a crowded lower West-side street.
                            Everything he touched seemed to have romance and beauty, and yet it was
                            real and mostly grim and shabby.
                        "I congratulate you, Mr. Witla," finally exclaimed M.
                            Charles, moved by the ability of the man and feeling that caution was no
                            longer necessary. "To me this is wonderful material, much more
                            effective than the reproductions show, dramatic and true. I question
                            whether you will make any money out of it. There is very little sale for
                            American art in this country. It might almost do better in Europe. It
                                ought to sell, but that is another matter. The
                            best things do not always sell readily. It takes time. Still I will do
                            what I can. I will give these pictures a two weeks' display
                            early in April without any charge to you whatever." (Eugene
                            started.) "I will call them to the attention of those who know.
                            I will speak to those who buy. It is an honor, I assure you, to do this.
                            I consider you an artist in every sense of the worldI might say a great
                            artist. You ought, if you preserve yourself sanely and with caution, to
                            go far, very far. I shall be glad to send for these when the time
                            comes."
                        Eugene did not know how to reply to this. He did not quite understand the
                            European seriousness of method, its appreciation of genius, which was
                            thus so easily and sincerely expressed in a formal way. M. Charles meant
                            every word he said. This was one of those rare and gratifying moments of
                            his life when he was permitted to extend to waiting and unrecognized
                            genius the assurance of the consideration and approval of the world.  He stood there waiting to hear what
                            Eugene would say, but the latter only flushed under his pale skin.
                        "I'm very glad," he said at last, in his
                            rather commonplace, off-hand, American way. "I thought they
                            were pretty good but I wasn't sure. I'm very grateful
                            to you."
                        "You need not feel gratitude toward me," returned M.
                            Charles, now modifying his formal manner. "You can congratulate
                            yourselfyour art. I am honored, as I tell you. We will make a fine
                            display of them. You have no frames for these? Well, never mind, I will
                            lend you frames."
                        He smiled and shook Eugene's hand and congratulated Angela. She
                            had listened to this address with astonishment and swelling pride. She
                            had perceived, despite Eugene's manner, the anxiety he was
                            feeling, the intense hopes he was building on the outcome of this
                            meeting. M. Charles' opening manner had deceived her. She had
                            felt that he did not care so much after all, and that Eugene was going
                            to be disappointed. Now, when this burst of approval came, she hardly
                            knew what to make of it. She looked at Eugene and saw that he was
                            intensely moved by not only a sense of relief, but pride and joy. His
                            pale, dark face showed it. To see this load of care taken off him whom
                            she loved so deeply was enough to unsettle Angela. She found herself
                            stirred in a pathetic way and now, when M. Charles turned to her, tears
                            welled to her eyes.
                        "Don't cry, Mrs. Witla," he said grandly on
                            seeing this. "You have a right to be proud of your husband. He
                            is a great artist. You should take care of him."
                        "Oh, I'm so happy," half-laughed and
                            half-sobbed Angela, "I can't help it."
                        She went over to where Eugene was and put her face against his coat.
                            Eugene slipped his arm about her and smiled sympathetically. M. Charles
                            smiled also, proud of the effect of his words. "You both have a
                            right to feel very happy," he said.
                        "Little Angela!" thought Eugene. This was your true
                            wife for you, your good woman. Her husband's success meant all
                            to her. She had no life of her ownnothing outside of him and his good
                            fortune.
                        M. Charles smiled. "Well, I will be going now," he said
                            finally. "I will send for the pictures when the time comes. And
                            meanwhile you two must come with me to dinner. I will let you
                            know."
                        He bowed himself out with many assurances of good will, and then Angela
                            and Eugene looked at each other.
                        "Oh, isn't it lovely, Honeybun," she cried,
                            half giggling,  half crying. (She had
                            begun to call him Honeybun the first day they were married.)
                            "My Eugene a great artist. He said it was a great honor!
                            Isn't that lovely? And all the world is going to know it soon,
                            now. Isn't that fine! Oh dear, I'm so proud."
                            And she threw her arms ecstatically about his neck.
                        Eugene kissed her affectionately. He was not thinking so much of her
                            though as he was of Kellner and Sontheir great exhibit room, the
                            appearance of these twenty-seven or thirty great pictures in gold
                            frames; the spectators who might come to see; the newspaper criticisms;
                            the voices of approval. Now all his artist friends would know that he
                            was considered a great artist; he was to have a chance to associate on
                            equal terms with men like Sargent and Whistler if he ever met them. The
                            world would hear of him widely. His fame might go to the uttermost parts
                            of the earth.
                        He went to the window after a time and looked out. There came back to his
                            mind Alexandria, the printing shop, the Peoples' Furniture
                            Company in Chicago, the Art Students League, the Daily
                                Globe. Surely he had come by devious paths.
                        "Gee!" he exclaimed at last simply. "Smite and
                            MacHugh'll be glad to hear this. I'll have to go over
                            and tell them."
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER VII
                        
                            THE exhibition which followed in April was one of
                            those things which happen to fortunate soulsa complete flowering out
                            before the eyes of the world of its feelings, emotions, perceptions, and
                            understanding. We all have our feelings and emotions, but lack the power
                            of self-expression. It is true, the work and actions of any man are to
                            some degree expressions of character, but this is a different thing. The
                            details of most lives are not held up for public examination at any
                            given time. We do not see succinctly in any given place just what an
                            individual thinks and feels. Even the artist is not always or often
                            given the opportunity of collected public expression under conspicuous
                            artistic auspices. Some are so fortunatemany are not. Eugene realized
                            that fortune was showering its favors upon him.
                        When the time came, M. Charles was so kind as to send for the pictures
                            and to arrange all the details. He had decided with Eugene that because
                            of the vigor of treatment and the prevailing color scheme black frames
                            would be the best. The principal exhibition room on the ground floor in
                            which these paintings were to be hung was heavily draped in red velvet
                            and against this background the different pictures stood out
                            effectively. Eugene visited the show room at the time the pictures were
                            being hung, with Angela, with Smite and MacHugh, Shotmeyer and others.
                            He had long since notified Norma Witmore and Miriam Finch, but not the
                            latter until after Wheeler had had time to tell her. This also chagrined
                            her, for she felt in this as she had about his marriage, that he was
                            purposely neglecting her.
                        The dream finally materializeda room eighteen by forty, hung with dark
                            red velvet, irradiated with a soft, illuminating glow from hidden lamps
                            in which Eugene's pictures stood forth in all their rawness and
                            realityalmost as vigorous as life itself. To some people, those who do
                            not see life clearly and directly, but only through other
                            people's eyes, they seemed more so.
                        For this reason Eugene's exhibition of pictures was an
                            astonishing thing to most of those who saw it. It concerned phases of
                            life which in the main they had but casually glanced at, things which
                            because they were commonplace and customary were  supposedly beyond the pale of artistic significance. One
                            picture in particular, a great hulking, ungainly negro, a positively
                            animal man, his ears thick and projecting, his lips fat, his nose flat,
                            his cheek bones prominent, his whole body expressing brute strength and
                            animal indifference to dirt and cold, illustrated this point
                            particularly. He was standing in a cheap, commonplace East Side street.
                            The time evidently was a January or February morning. His business was
                            driving an ash cart, and his occupation at the moment illustrated by the
                            picture was that of lifting a great can of mixed ashes, paper and
                            garbage to the edge of the ungainly iron wagon. His hands were immense
                            and were covered with great red patched woolen and leather glovesdirty,
                            bulbous, inconvenient, one would have said. His head and ears were
                            swaddled about by a red flannel shawl or strip of cloth which was
                            knotted under his pugnacious chin, and his forehead, shawl and all,
                            surmounted by a brown canvas cap with his badge and number as a garbage
                            driver on it. About his waist was tied a great piece of rough coffee
                            sacking and his arms and legs looked as though he might have on two or
                            three pairs of trousers and as many vests. He was looking purblindly
                            down the shabby street, its hard crisp snow littered with tin cans,
                            paper, bits of slop and offal. Dustgray ash dust, was flying from his
                            upturned can. In the distance behind him was a milk wagon, a few
                            pedestrians, a little thinly clad girl coming out of a delicatessen
                            store. Over head were dull small-paned windows, some shutters with a few
                            of their slats broken out, a frowsy headed man looking out evidently to
                            see whether the day was cold.
                        Eugene was so cruel in his indictment of life. He seemed to lay on his
                            details with bitter lack of consideration. Like a slavedriver lashing a
                            slave he spared no least shade of his cutting brush. "Thus, and
                            thus and thus" (he seemed to say) "is it."
                            "What do you think of this? and this? and this?"
                        People came and stared. Young society matrons, art dealers, art critics,
                            the literary element who were interested in art, some musicians, and,
                            because the newspapers made especial mention of it, quite a number of
                            those who run wherever they imagine there is something interesting to
                            see. It was quite a notable two weeks' display. Miriam Finch
                            (though she never admitted to Eugene that she had seen itshe would not
                            give him that satisfaction) Norma Whitmore, William McConnell, Louis
                            Deesa, Owen Overman, Paynter Stone, the whole ruck and rabble of
                            literary and artistic life, came. There were artists of great ability
                            there whom Eugene had never seen before. 
                            It would have pleased him immensely if he had chanced to see several of
                            the city's most distinguished social leaders looking, at one
                            time and another, at his pictures. All his observers were astonished at
                            his virility, curious as to his personality, curious as to what motive,
                            or significance, or point of view it might have. The more eclcctically
                            cultured turned to the newspapers to see what the art critics would say
                            of thishow they would label it. Because of the force of the work, the
                            dignity and critical judgment of Kellner and Son, the fact that the
                            public of its own instinct and volition was interested, most of the
                            criticisms were favorable. One art publication, connected with and
                            representative of the conservative tendencies of a great publishing
                            house, denied the merit of the collection as a whole, ridiculed the
                            artist's insistence on shabby details as having artistic merit,
                            denied that he could draw accurately, denied that he was a lover of pure
                            beauty, and accused him of having no higher ideal than that of desire to
                            shock the current mass by painting brutal things brutally.
                        "Mr. Witla," wrote this critic, "would no
                            doubt be flattered if he were referred to as an American Millet. The
                            brutal exaggeration of that painter's art would probably
                            testify to him of his own merit. He is mistaken. The great Frenchman was
                            a lover of humanity, a reformer in spirit, a master of drawing and
                            composition. There was nothing of this cheap desire to startle and
                            offend by what he did. If we are to have ash cans and engines and
                            broken-down bus-horses thrust down our throats as art, Heaven preserve
                            us. We had better turn to commonplace photography at once and be done
                            with it. Broken window shutters, dirty pavements, half frozen ash cart
                            drivers, overdrawn, heavily exaggerated figures of policemen, tenement
                            harridans, beggars, panhandlers, sandwich menof such is Art according to Eugene Witla."
                        Eugene winced when he read this. For the time being it seemed true
                            enough. His art was shabby. Yet there were others like Luke Severas who
                            went to the other extreme.
                        "A true sense of the pathetic, a true sense of the dramatic, the
                            ability to endow colornot with its photographic value, though to the
                            current thought it may seem sobut with its higher spiritual
                            significance; the ability to indict life with its own grossness, to
                            charge it prophetically with its own meanness and cruelty in order that
                            mayhap it may heal itself; the ability to see wherein is beautyeven in
                            shame and pathos and degradation; of such is this man's work.
                            He comes from the soil apparently, fresh to a great task. There is no
                            fear here, no  bowing to traditions, no
                            recognition of any of the accepted methods. It is probable that he may
                            not know what the accepted methods are. So much the better. We have a
                            new method. The world is the richer for that. As we have said before,
                            Mr. Witla may have to wait for his recognition. It is certain that these
                            pictures will not be quickly purchased and hung in parlors. The average
                            art lover does not take to a new thing so readily. But if he persevere,
                            if his art does not fail him, his turn will come. It cannot fail. He is
                            a great artist. May he live to realize it consciously and in his own
                            soul."
                        Tears leaped to Eugene's eyes whan he read this. The thought
                            that he was a medium for some noble and super-human purpose thickened
                            the cords in his throat until they felt like a lump. He wanted to be a
                            great artist, he wanted to be worthy of the appreciation that was thus
                            extended to him. He thought of all the writers and artists and musicians
                            and connoisseurs of pictures who would read this and remember him. It
                            was just possible that from now onwards some of his pictures would sell.
                            He would be so glad to devote himself to this sort of thingto quit
                            magazine illustration entirely. How ridiculous the latter was, how
                            confined and unimportant. Henceforth, unless driven by sheer necessity,
                            he would do it no more. They should beg in vain. He was an artist in the
                            true sense of the worda great painter, ranking with Whistler, Sargent,
                            Velasquez and Turner. Let the magazines with their little ephemeral
                            circulation go their way. He was for the whole world.
                        He stood at the window of his studio one day while the exhibition was
                            still in progress, Angela by his side, thinking of all the fine things
                            that had been said. No picture had been sold, but M. Charles had told
                            him that some might be taken before it was all over.
                        "I think if I make any money out of this," he said to
                            Angela, "we will go to Paris this summer. I have always wanted
                            to see Paris. In the fall we'll come back and take a studio up
                            town. They are building some dandy ones up in Sixty-fifth
                            Street." He was thinking of the artists who could pay three and
                            four thousand dollars a year for a studio. He was thinking of men who
                            made four, five, six and even eight hundred dollars out of every picture
                            they painted. If he could do that! Or if he could get a contract for a
                            mural decoration for next winter. He had very little money laid by. He
                            had spent most of his time this winter working with these pictures.
                        "Oh, Eugene," exclaimed Angela, "it seems so
                            wonderful. I can hardly believe it. You a really, truly, great artist!
                            And us  going to Paris! Oh, isn't
                            that beautiful. It seems like a dream. I think and think, but
                            it's hard to believe that I am here sometimes, and that your
                            pictures are up at Kellner's and oh!" she clung to him
                            in an ecstasy of delight.
                        Out in the park the leaves were just budding. It looked as though the
                            whole square were hung with a transparent green net, spangled, as was
                            the net in his room, with tiny green leaves. Songsters were idling in
                            the sun. Sparrows were flying noisily about in small clouds. Pigeons
                            were picking lazily between the car tracks of the street below.
                        "I might get a group of pictures illustrative of Paris. You
                            can't tell what we'll find. Charles says he will have
                            another exhibition for me next spring, if I'll get the material
                            ready." He pushed his arms above his head and yawned
                            deliciously.
                        He wondered what Miss Finch thought now. He wondered where Christina
                            Channing was. There was never a word in the papers yet as to what had
                            become of her. He knew what Norma Whitmore thought. She was apparently
                            as happy as though the exhibition had been her own.
                        "Well, I must go and get your lunch, Honeybun!"
                            exclaimed Angela. "I have to go to Mr. Gioletti, the grocer,
                            and to Mr. Ruggiere, the vegetable man." She laughed, for the
                            Italian names amused her.
                        Eugene went back to his easel. He was thinking of Christinawhere was she?
                            At that moment, if he had known, she was looking at his pictures, only
                            newly returned from Europe. She had seen a notice in the Evening Post.
                        
                        "Such work!" Christina thought, "such force!
                            Oh, what a delightful artist. And he was with me."
                        Her mind went back to Florizel and the amphitheatre among the trees.
                            "He called me "Diana of the
                            Mountains,'" she thought, "his
                            'hamadryad,' his 'huntress of the
                            morn.'" She knew he was married. An acquaintance of
                            hers had written in December. The past was past with hershe wanted no
                            more of it. But it was beautiful to think upona delicious memory.
                        "What a queer girl I am," she thought.
                        Still she wished she could see him againnot face to face, but somewhere
                            where he could not see her. She wondered if he was changingif he would
                            ever change. He was so beautiful thento her.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER VIII
                        
                            PARIS now loomed bright in Eugene's
                            imagination, the prospect mingling with a thousand other delightful
                            thoughts. Now that he had attained to the dignity of a public
                            exhibition, which had been notably commented upon by the newspapers and
                            art journals and had been so generally attended by the elect, artists,
                            critics, writers generally, seemed to know of him. There were many who
                            were anxious to meet and greet him, to speak approvingly of his work. It
                            was generally understood, apparently, that he was a great artist, not
                            exactly arrived to the fullness of his stature as yet, being so new, but
                            on his way. Among those who knew him he was, by this one exhibition,
                            lifted almost in a day to a lonely height, far above the puny efforts of
                            such men as Smite and MacHugh, McConnell and Deesa, the whole world of
                            small artists whose canvases packed the semi-annual exhibition of the
                            National Academy of Design and the Water color society, and with whom in
                            a way, he had been associated. He was a great artist nowrecognized as
                            such by the eminent critics who knew; and as such, from now on, would be
                            expected to do the work of a great artist. One phrase in the criticisms
                            of Luke Severas in the Evening Sun as it appeared
                            during the run of his exhibition remained in his memory
                            clearly"If he perseveres, if his art does not fail
                            him." Why should his art fail him?he asked himself. He was
                            immensely pleased to hear from M. Charles at the close of the exhibition
                            that three of his pictures had been soldone for three hundred dollars to
                            Henry McKenna, a banker; another, the East Side street scene which M.
                            Charles so greatly admired, to Isaac Wertheim, for five hundred dollars;
                            a third, the one of the three engines and the railroad yard, to Robert
                            C. Winchon, a railroad man, first vice-president of one of the great
                            railroads entering New York, also for five hundred dollars. Eugene had
                            never heard of either Mr. McKenna or Mr. Winchon, but he was assured
                            that they were men of wealth and refinement. At Angela's
                            suggestion he asked M. Charles if he would not accept one of his
                            pictures as a slight testimony of his appreciation for all he had done
                            for him. Eugene would not have thought to do this, he was so careless
                            and unpractical. But Angela thought of it, and saw that he did it. M.
                            Charles was greatly pleased, and took the picture of Greeley Square,
                            which he considered a masterpiece of 
                            color interpretation. This somehow sealed the friendship between these
                            two, and M. Charles was anxious to see Eugene's interests
                            properly forwarded. He asked him to leave three of his scenes on sale
                            for a time and he would see what he could do. Meanwhile, Eugene, with
                            thirteen hundred added to the thousand and some odd dollars he had left
                            in his bank from previous earnings, was convinced that his career was
                            made, and decided, as he had planned to go to Paris, for the summer at
                            least.
                        This trip, so exceptional to him, so epoch-making, was easily arranged.
                            All the time he had been in New York he had heard more in his circle of
                            Paris than of any other city. Its streets, its quarters, its museums,
                            its theatres and opera were already almost a commonplace to him. The
                            cost of living, the ideal methods of living, the way to travel, what to
                            seehow often he had sat and listened to descriptions of these things.
                            Now he was going. Angela took the initiative in arranging all the
                            practical detailssuch as looking up the steamship routes, deciding on
                            the size of trunks required, what to take, buying the tickets, looking
                            up the rates of the different hotels and pensions at which they might
                            possibly stay. She was so dazed by the glory that had burst upon her
                            husband's life that she scarcely knew what to do or what to
                            make of it.
                        "That Mr. Bierdat," she said to Eugene, referring to
                            one of the assistant steam-ship agents with whom she had taken counsel,
                            "tells me that if we are just going for the summer
                            it's foolish to take anything but absolute necessaries. He says
                            we can buy so many nice little things to wear over there if we need
                            them, and then I can bring them back duty free in the
                            fall."
                        Eugene approved of this. He thought Angela would like to see the shops.
                            They finally decided to go via London, returning direct from Havre, and
                            on the tenth of May they departed, arriving in London a week later and
                            in Paris on the first of June. Eugene was greatly impressed with London.
                            He had arrived in time to miss the British damp and cold and to see
                            London through a golden haze which was entrancing. Angela objected to
                            the shops, which she described as "punk," and to the
                            condition of the lower classes, who were so poor and wretchedly dressed.
                            She and Eugene discussed the interesting fact that all Englishmen looked
                            exactly alike, dressed, walked, and wore their hats and carried their
                            canes exactly alike. Eugene was impressed with the apparent
                            "go" of the mentheir smartness and dapperness. The
                            women he objected to in the main as being dowdy and homely and
                            awkward.
                        But when he reached Paris, what a difference! In London,  because of the lack of sufficient means
                            (he did not feel that as yet he had sufficient to permit him to indulge
                            in the more expensive comforts and pleasures of the city) and for the
                            want of someone to provide him with proper social introductions, he was
                            compelled to content himself with that superficial, exterior aspect of
                            things which only the casual traveler seesthe winding streets, the crush
                            of traffic, London Tower, Windsor Castle, the Inns of court, the Strand,
                            Piccadilly, St. Paul's and, of course, the National Gallery and
                            the British Museum. South Kensington and all those various endowed
                            palaces where objects of art are displayed pleased him greatly. In the
                            main he was struck with the conservatism of London, its atmosphere of
                            Empire, its soldiery and the like, though he considered it drab, dull,
                            less strident than New York, and really less picturesque. When he came
                            to Paris, however, all this was changed. Paris is of itself a holiday
                            cityone whose dress is always gay, inviting, fresh, like one who sets
                            forth to spend a day in the country. As Eugene stepped onto the dock at
                            Calais and later as he journeyed across and into the city, he could feel
                            the vast difference between France and England. The one country seemed
                            young, hopeful, American, even foolishly gay, the other serious,
                            speculative, dour.
                        Eugene had taken a number of letters from M. Charles, Hudson Dula, Louis
                            Deesa, Leonard Baker and others, who, on hearing that he was going, had
                            volunteered to send him to friends in Paris who might help him. The
                            principal thing, if he did not wish to maintain a studio of his own, and
                            did wish to learn, was to live with some pleasant French family where he
                            could hear French and pick it up quickly. If he did not wish to do this,
                            the next best thing was to settle in the Montmartre district in some
                            section or court where he could obtain a nice studio, and where there
                            were a number of American or English students. Some of the Americans to
                            whom he had letters were already domiciled here. With a small calling
                            list of friends who spoke English he would do very well.
                        "You will be surprised, Witla," said Deesa to him one
                            day, "how much English you can get understood by making
                            intelligent signs."
                        Eugene had laughed at Deesa's descriptions of his own
                            difficulties and successes, but he found that Deesa was right. Signs
                            went very far and they were, as a rule, thoroughly intelligible.
                        The studio which he and Angela eventually took after a few days spent at
                            an hotel, was a comfortable one on the third  floor of a house which Eugene found ready to his hand,
                            recommended by M. Arkquin, of the Paris branch of Kellner and Son.
                            Another artist, Finley Wood, whom afterwards Eugene recalled as having
                            been mentioned to him by Ruby Kenny, in Chicago, was leaving Paris for
                            the summer. Because of M. Charles' impressive letter, M.
                            Arkquin was most anxious that Eugene should be comfortably installed and
                            suggested that he take this, the charge being anything he cared to
                            payforty francs the month. Eugene looked at it and was delighted. It was
                            in the back of the house, looking out on a little garden, and because of
                            a westward slope of the ground from this direction and an accidental
                            breach in the building line, commanded a wide sweep of the city of
                            Paris, the twin towers of Notre Dame, the sheer rise of the Eiffel
                            tower. It was fascinating to see the lights of the city blinking of an
                            evening. Eugene would invariably draw his chair close to his favorite
                            window when he came in, while Angela made lemonade or iced tea or
                            practised her culinary art on a chafing dish. In presenting to him an
                            almost standard American menu she exhibited the executive ability and
                            natural industry which was her chief characteristic. She would go to the
                            neighboring groceries, rotisseries, patisseries, green vegetable stands,
                            and get the few things she needed in the smallest quantities, always
                            selecting the best and preparing them with the greatest care. She was an
                            excellent cook and loved to set a dainty and shining table. She saw no
                            need of company, for she was perfectly happy alone with Eugene and felt
                            that he must be with her. She had no desire to go anywhere by
                            herselfonly with him; and she would hang on every thought and motion
                            waiting for him to say what his pleasure would be.
                        The wonder of Paris to Eugene was its freshness and the richness of its
                            art spirit as expressed on every hand. He was never weary of looking at
                            the undersized French soldiery with their wide red trousers, blue coats
                            and red caps, or the police with their capes and swords and the cab
                            drivers with their air of leisurely superiority. The Seine, brisk with
                            boats at this season of the year, the garden of the Tuileries, with its
                            white marble nudes and formal paths and stone benches, the Bois, the
                            Champ de Mars, the Trocadero Museum, the Louvreall the wonder streets
                            and museums held him as in a dream.
                        "Gee," he exclaimed to Angela one afternoon as he
                            followed the banks of the Seine toward Issy, "this is certainly
                            the home of the blessed for all good artists. Smell that perfume. (It
                            was from a perfume factory in the distance.) See that
                            barge!"
                        
                        He leaned on the river wall. "Ah," he sighed,
                            "this is perfect."
                        They went back in the dusk on the roof of an open car. "When I
                            die," he sighed, "I hope I come to Paris. It is all
                            the heaven I want."
                        Yet like all perfect delights, it lost some of its savour after a time,
                            though not much. Eugene felt that he could live in Paris if his art
                            would permit himthough he must go back, he knew, for the present
                            anyhow.
                        Angela, he noticed after a time, was growing in confidence, if not in
                            mentality. From a certain dazed uncertainty which had characterized her
                            the preceding fall when she had first come to New York, heightened and
                            increased for the time being by the rush of art life and strange
                            personalities she had encountered there and here she was blossoming into
                            a kind of assurance born of experience. Finding that Eugene's
                            ideas, feelings and interests were of the upper world of thought
                            entirelyconcerned with types, crowds, the aspect of buildings, streets,
                            skylines, the humors and pathetic aspects of living, she concerned
                            herself solely with the managerial details. It did not take her long to
                            discover that if anyone would relieve Eugene of all care for himself he
                            would let him do it. It was no satisfaction to him to buy himself
                            anything. He objected to executive and commercial details. If tickets
                            had to be bought, time tables consulted, inquiries made, any labor of
                            argument or dispute engaged in, he was loath to enter on it.
                            "You get these, will you, Angela?" he would plead, or
                            "you see him about that, I can't now. Will
                            you?"
                        Angela would hurry to the task, whatever it was, anxious to show that she
                            was of real use and necessity. On the busses of London or Paris, as in
                            New York, he was sketching, sketching, sketchingcabs, little passenger
                            boats of the Seine, characters in the cafs, parks, gardens, music halls,
                            anywhere, anything, for he was practically tireless. All that he wanted
                            was not to be bothered very much, to be left to his own devices.
                            Sometimes Angela would pay all the bills for him for a day. She carried
                            his purse, took charge of all the express orders into which their cash
                            had been transferred, kept a list of all their expenditures, did the
                            shopping, buying, paying. Eugene was left to see the thing that he
                            wanted to see, to think the things that he wanted to think. During all
                            those early days Angela made a god of him and he was very willing to
                            cross his legs, Buddha fashion, and act as one.
                        Only at night when there were no alien sights or sounds to engage his
                            attention, when not even his art could come between  them, and she could draw him into her arms and submerge
                            his restless spirit in the tides of her love did she feel his
                            equalreally worthy of him. These transports which came with the
                            darkness, or with the mellow light of the little oil lamp that hung in
                            chains from the ceiling near their wide bed, or in the faint freshness
                            of dawn with the birds cheeping in the one tree of the little garden
                            belowwere to her at once utterly generous and profoundly selfish. She
                            had eagerly absorbed Eugene's philosophy of self-indulgent joy
                            where it concerned themselvesall the more readily as it coincided with
                            her own vague ideas and her own hot impulses.
                        Angela had come to marriage through years of self-denial, years of bitter
                            longing for the marriage that perhaps would never be, and out of those
                            years she had come to the marriage bed with a cumulative and intense
                            passion. Without any knowledge either of the ethics or physiology of
                            sex, except as pertained to her state as a virgin, she was vastly
                            ignorant of marriage itself; the hearsay of girls, the equivocal
                            confessions of newly married women, and the advice of her elder sister
                            (conveyed by Heaven only knows what process of conversation) had left
                            her almost as ignorant as before, and now she explored its mysteries
                            with abandon, convinced that the unrestrained gratification of passion
                            was normal and excellentin addition to being, as she came to find, a
                            universal solvent for all differences of opinion or temperament that
                            threatened their peace of mind. Beginning with their life in the studio
                            on Washington Square, and continuing with even greater fervor now in
                            Paris, there was what might be described as a prolonged riot of
                            indulgence between them, bearing no relation to any necessity in their
                            natures, and certainly none to the demands which Eugene's
                            intellectual and artistic tasks laid upon him. She was to Eugene
                            astonishing and delightful; and yet perhaps not so much delightful as
                            astonishing. Angela was in a sense elemental, but Eugene was not: he was
                            the artist, in this as in other things, rousing himself to a pitch of
                            appreciation which no strength so undermined by intellectual subtleties
                            could continuously sustain. The excitement of adventure, of intrigue in
                            a sense, of discovering the secrets of feminine personalitythese were
                            really what had constituted the charm, if not the compelling urge, of
                            his romances. To conquer was beautiful: but it was in essence an
                            intellectual enterprise. To see his rash dreams come true in the
                            yielding of the last sweetness possessed by the desired woman, had been
                            to him imaginatively as well as physically an irresistible thing. But
                            these enterprises were like thin silver strands spun out across  an abyss, whose beauty but not whose
                            dangers were known to him. Still, he rejoiced in this magnificent
                            creature-joy which Angela supplied; it was, so far as it was concerned,
                            what he thought he wanted. And Angela interpreted her power to respond
                            to what seemed his inexhaustible desire as not only a kindness but a
                            duty.
                        Eugene set up his easel here, painted from nine to noon some days, and on
                            others from two to five in the afternoon. If it were dark, he would walk
                            or ride with Angela or visit the museums, the galleries and the public
                            buildings or stroll in the factory or railroad quarters of the city.
                            Eugene sympathized most with sombre types and was constantly drawing
                            something which represented grim care. Aside from the dancers in the
                            music halls, the toughs, in what later became known as the Apache
                            district, the summer picnicking parties at Versailles and St. Cloud, the
                            boat crowds on the Seine, he drew factory throngs, watchmen and railroad
                            crossings, market people, market in the dark, street sweepers, newspaper
                            vendors, flower merchants, always with a memorable street scene in the
                            background. Some of the most interesting bits of Paris, its towers,
                            bridges, river views, faades, appeared in backgrounds to the grim or
                            picturesque or pathetic character studies. It was his hope that he could
                            interest America in these thingsthat his next exhibition would not only
                            illustrate his versatility and persistence of talent, but show an
                            improvement in his art, a surer sense of color values, a greater
                            analytical power in the matter of character, a surer selective taste in
                            the matter of composition and arrangement. He did not realize that all
                            this might be uselessthat he was, aside from his art, living a life
                            which might rob talent of its finest flavor, discolor the aspect of the
                            world for himself, take scope from imagination and hamper effort with
                            nervous irritation, and make accomplishment impossible. He had no
                            knowledge of the effect of one's sexual life upon
                            one's work, nor what such a life when badly arranged can do to
                            a perfect arthow it can distort the sense of color, weaken that balanced
                            judgment of character which is so essential to a normal interpretation
                            of life, make all striving hopeless, take from art its most joyous
                            conception, make life itself seem unimportant and death a relief.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER IX
                        
                            THE summer passed, and with it the freshness and
                            novelty of Paris, though Eugene never really wearied of it. The
                            peculiarities of a different national life, the variations between this
                            and his own country in national ideals, an obviously much more
                            complaisant and human attitude toward morals, a matter-of-fact
                            acceptance of the ills, weaknesses and class differences, to say nothing
                            of the general physical appearance, the dress, habitations and
                            amusements of the people, astonished as much as they entertained him. He
                            was never weary of studying the differences between American and
                            European architecture, noting the pacific manner in which the Frenchman
                            appeared to take life, listening to Angela's unwearied comments
                            on the cleanliness, economy, thoroughness with which the French women
                            kept house, rejoicing in the absence of the American leaning to
                            incessant activity. Angela was struck by the very moderate prices for
                            laundry, the skill with which their conciergewho governed this quarter
                            and who knew sufficient English to talk to herdid her marketing,
                            cooking, sewing and entertaining. The richness of supply and aimless
                            waste of Americans was alike unknown. Because she was naturally of a
                            domestic turn Angela became very intimate with Madame Bourgoche and
                            learned of her a hundred and one little tricks of domestic economy and
                            arrangement.
                        "You're a peculiar girl, Angela," Eugene once
                            said to her. "I believe you would rather sit down stairs and
                            talk to that Frenchwoman than meet the most interesting literary or
                            artistic personage that ever was. What do you find that's so
                            interesting to talk about?"
                        "Oh, nothing much," replied Angela, who was not
                            unconscious of the implied hint of her artistic deficiencies.
                            "She's such a smart woman. She's so
                            practical. She knows more in a minute about saving and buying and making
                            a little go a long way than any American woman I ever saw. I'm
                            not interested in her any more than I am in anyone else. All the
                            artistic people do, that I can see, is to run around and pretend that
                            they're a whole lot when they're not."
                        Eugene saw that he had made an irritating reference, not wholly intended
                            in the way it was being taken.
                        "I'm not saying she isn't able," he
                            went on. "One talent is  as good
                            as another, I suppose. She certainly looks clever enough to me. Where is
                            her husband?"
                        "He was killed in the army," returned Angela
                            dolefully.
                        "Well I suppose you'll learn enough from her to run a
                            hotel when you get back to New York. You don't know enough
                            about housekeeping now, do you?"
                        Eugene smiled with his implied compliment. He was anxious to get
                            Angela's mind off the art question. He hoped she would feel or
                            see that he meant nothing, but she was not so easily pacified.
                        "You don't think I'm so bad, Eugene, do
                            you?" she asked after a moment. "You don't
                            think it makes so much difference whether I talk to Madame Bourgoche?
                            She isn't so dull. She's awfully smart. You just
                            haven't talked to her. She says she can tell by looking at you
                            that you're a great artist. You're different. You
                            remind her of a Mr. Degas that once lived here. Was he a great
                            artist?"
                        "Was he!" said Eugene. "Well I guess yes. Did
                            he have this studio?"
                        "Oh, a long time agofifteen years ago."
                        Eugene smiled beatifically. This was a great compliment. He could not
                            help liking Madame Bourgoche for it. She was bright, no doubt of that,
                            or she would not be able to make such a comparison. Angela drew from
                            him, as before, that her domesticity and housekeeping skill was as
                            important as anything else in the world, and having done this was
                            satisfied and cheerful once more. Eugene thought how little art or
                            conditions or climate or country altered the fundamental characteristics
                            of human nature. Here he was in Paris, comparatively well supplied with
                            money, famous, or in process of becoming so, and quarreling with Angela
                            over little domestic idiosyncrasies, just as in Washington Square.
                        By late September Eugene had most of his Paris sketches so well laid in
                            that he could finish them anywhere. Some fifteen were as complete as
                            they could be made. A number of others were nearly so. He decided that
                            he had had a profitable summer. He had worked hard and here was the work
                            to show for ittwenty-six canvases which were as good, in his judgment,
                            as those he had painted in New York. They had not taken so long, but he
                            was surer of himselfsurer of his method. He parted reluctantly with all
                            the lovely things he had seen, believing that this collection of
                            Parisian views would be as impressive to Americans as had been his New
                            York views. M. Arkquin for one, and many others, including the friends
                            of Deesa  and Dula were delighted with
                            them. The former expressed the belief that some of them might be sold in
                            France.
                        Eugene returned to America with Angela, and learning that he might stay
                            in the old studio until December first, settled down to finish the work
                            for his exhibition there.
                        The first suggestion that Eugene had that anything was wrong with him,
                            aside from a growing apprehensiveness as to what the American people
                            would think of his French work, was in the fall, when he began to
                            imagineor perhaps it was really truethat coffee did not agree with him.
                            He had for several years now been free of his old-time complaint,stomach
                            trouble; but gradually it was beginning to reappear and he began to
                            complain to Angela that he was feeling an irritation after his meals,
                            that coffee came up in his throat. "I think I'll have
                            to try tea or something else if this doesn't stop," he
                            observed. She suggested chocolate and he changed to that, but this
                            merely resulted in shifting the ill to another quarter. He now began to
                            quarrel with his worknot being able to get a certain effect, and having
                            sometimes altered and re-altered and re-re-altered a canvas until it
                            bore little resemblance to the original arrangement, he would grow
                            terribly discouraged; or believe that he had attained perfection at
                            last, only to change his mind the following morning.
                        "Now," he would say, "I think I have that
                            thing right at last, thank heaven!"
                        Angela would heave a sigh of relief, for she could feel instantly any
                            distress or inability that he felt, but her joy was of short duration.
                            In a few hours she would find him working at the same canvas changing
                            something. He grew thinner and paler at this time and his apprehensions
                            as to his future rapidly became morbid.
                        "By George! Angela," he said to her one day,
                            "it would be a bad thing for me if I were to become sick now.
                            It's just the time that I don't want to. I want to
                            finish this exhibition up right and then go to London. If I could do
                            London and Chicago as I did New York I would be just about made, but if
                            I'm going to get sick"
                        "Oh, you're not going to get sick, Eugene,"
                            replied Angela, "you just think you are. You want to remember
                            that you've worked very hard this summer. And think how hard
                            you worked last winter! You need a good rest, that's what you
                            need. Why don't you stop after you get this exhibition ready
                            and rest awhile? You have enough to live on for a little bit. M. Charles
                            will probably sell a few more of those pictures, or  some of those will sell and then you can wait.
                            Don't try to go to London in the spring. Go on a walking tour
                            or go down South or just rest awhile, anywhere,that's what you
                            need."
                        Eugene realized vaguely that it wasn't rest that he needed so
                            much as peace of mind. He was not tired. He was merely nervously excited
                            and apprehensive. He began to sleep badly, to have terrifying dreams, to
                            feel that his heart was failing him. At two o'clock in the
                            morning, the hour when for some reason human vitality appears to undergo
                            a peculiar disturbance, he would wake with a sense of sinking
                            physically. His pulse would appear to be very low, and he would feel his
                            wrists nervously. Not infrequently he would break out in a cold
                            perspiration and would get up and walk about to restore himself. Angela
                            would rise and walk with him. One day at his easel he was seized with a
                            peculiar nervous disturbancea sudden glittering light before his eyes, a
                            rumbling in his ears, and a sensation which was as if his body were
                            being pricked with ten million needles. It was as though his whole
                            nervous system had given way at every minute point and division. For the
                            time being he was intensely frightened, believing that he was going
                            crazy, but he said nothing. It came to him as a staggering truth that
                            the trouble with him was over-indulgence physically; that the remedy was
                            abstinence, complete or at least partial; that he was probably so far
                            weakened mentally and physically that it would be very difficult for him
                            to recover; that his ability to paint might be seriously affectedhis
                            life blighted.
                        He stood before his canvas holding his brush, wondering. When the shock
                            had completely gone he laid the brush down with a trembling hand. He
                            walked to the window, wiped his cold, damp forehead with his hand and
                            then turned to get his coat from the closet.
                        "Where are you going?" asked Angela.
                        "For a little walk. I'll be back soon. I don't
                            feel just as fresh as I might."
                        She kissed him good-bye at the door and let him go, but her heart
                            troubled her.
                        "I'm afraid Eugene is going to get sick," she
                            thought. "He ought to stop work."
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER X
                        
                            IT was the beginning of a period destined to last five
                            or six years, in which, to say the least, Eugene was not himself. He was
                            not in any sense out of his mind, if power to reason clearly, jest
                            sagely, argue and read intelligently are any evidences of sanity; but
                            privately his mind was a maelstrom of contradictory doubts, feelings and
                            emotions. Always of a philosophic and introspective turn, this peculiar
                            faculty of reasoning deeply and feeling emotionally were now turned upon
                            himself and his own condition and, as in all such cases where we peer
                            too closely into the subtleties of creation, confusion was the result.
                            Previously he had been well satisfied that the world knew nothing.
                            Neither in religion, philosophy nor science was there any answer to the
                            riddle of existence. Above and below the little scintillating plane of
                            man's thought waswhat? Beyond the opic strength of the greatest
                            telescope,far out upon the dim horizon of spacewere clouds of stars.
                            What were they doing out there? Who governed them? When were their
                            sidereal motions calculated? He figured life as a grim dark mystery, a
                            sad semiconscious activity turning aimlessly in the dark. No one knew
                            anything. God knew nothinghimself least of all. Malevolence, life living
                            on death, plain violencethese were the chief characteristics of
                            existence. If one failed of strength in any way, if life were not kind
                            in its bestowal of gifts, if one were not born to fortune's
                            pampering carethe rest was misery. In the days of his strength and
                            prosperity the spectacle of existence had been sad enough: in the hours
                            of threatened delay and defeat it seemed terrible. Why, if his art
                            failed him now, what had he? Nothing. A little puny reputation which he
                            could not sustain, no money, a wife to take care of, years of possible
                            suffering and death. The abyss of death! When he looked into that after
                            all of life and hope, how it shocked him, how it hurt! Here was life and
                            happiness and love in healththere was death and nothingnessons and ons
                            of nothingness.
                        He did not immediately give up hopeimmediately succumb to the evidences
                            of a crumbling reality. For months and months he fancied each day that
                            this was a temporary condition; that drugs and doctors could heal him.
                            There were various remedies that were advertised in the papers, blood
                            purifiers, nerve restorers, brain foods, which were announced at once as
                            specifies  and cures, and while he did not
                            think that the ordinary patent medicine had anything of value in it, he
                            did imagine that some good could be had from tonics, or the tonic. A physician whom he consulted recommended rest and
                            an excellent tonic which he knew of. He asked whether he was subject to
                            any wasting disease. Eugene told him no. He confessed to an
                            over-indulgence in the sex-relationship, but the doctor did not believe
                            that ordinarily this should bring about a nervous decline. Hard work
                            must have something to do with it, over-anxiety. Some temperaments such
                            as his were predisposed at birth to nervous breakdowns; they had to
                            guard themselves. Eugene would have to be very careful. He should eat
                            regularly, sleep as long as possible, observe regular hours. A system of
                            exercise might not be a bad thing for him. He could get him a pair of
                            Indian clubs or dumb-bells or an exerciser and bring himself back to
                            health that way.
                        Eugene told Angela that he believed he would try exercising and joined a
                            gymnasium. He took a tonic, walked with her a great deal, sought to
                            ignore the fact that he was nervously depressed. These things were of
                            practically no value, for the body had apparently been drawn a great
                            distance below normal and all the hell of a subnormal state had to be
                            endured before it could gradually come into its own again.
                        In the meantime he was continuing his passional relations with Angela, in
                            spite of a growing judgment that they were in some way harmful to him.
                            But it was not easy to refrain, and each failure to do so made it
                            harder. It was a customary remark of his that "he must quit
                            this," but it was like the self-apologetic assurance of the
                            drunkard that he must reform.
                        Now that he had stepped out into the limelight of public observationnow
                            that artists and critics and writers somewhat knew of him, and in their
                            occasional way were wondering what he was doing, it was necessary that
                            he should bestir himself to especial effort in order to satisfy the
                            public as to the enduring quality of his art. He was glad, once he
                            realized that he was in for a siege of bad weather, that his Paris
                            drawings had been so nearly completed before the break came. By the day
                            he suffered the peculiar nervousness which seemed to mark the opening of
                            his real decline, he had completed twenty-two paintings, which Angela
                            begged him not to touch; and by sheer strength of will, though he
                            misdoubted gravely, he managed to complete five more. All of these M.
                            Charles came to see on occasion, and he approved of them highly. He was
                            not so sure that they would have the appeal of the American pictures,
                            for  after all the city of Paris had been
                            pretty well done over and over in illustration and genre work. It was
                            not so new as New York; the things Eugene chose were not as
                            unconventional. Still, he could say truly they were exceptional. They
                            might try an exhibition of them later in Paris if they did not take
                            here. He was very sorry to see that Eugene was in poor health and urged
                            him to take care of himself.
                        It seemed as if some malign planetary influence were affecting him.
                            Eugene knew of astrology and palmistry and one day, in a spirit of
                            curiosity and vague apprehensiveness, consulted a practitioner of the
                            former, receiving for his dollar the statement that he was destined to
                            great fame in either art or literature but that he was entering a period
                            of stress which would endure for a number of years. Eugene's
                            spirits sank perceptibly. The musty old gentleman who essayed his books
                            of astrological lore shook his head. He had a rather noble growth of
                            white hair and a white beard, but his coffee-stained vest was covered
                            with tobacco ash and his collar and cuffs were dirty.
                        "It looks pretty bad between your twenty-eighth and your
                            thirty-second years, but after that there is a notable period of
                            prosperity. Somewhere around your thirty-eighth or thirty-ninth year
                            there is some more troublea littlebut you will come out of thatthat is,
                            it looks as though you would. Your stars show you to be of a nervous,
                            imaginative character, inclined to worry; and I see that your kidneys
                            are weak. You ought never to take much medicine. Your sign is inclined
                            to that but it is without benefit to you. You will be married twice, but
                            I don't see any children."
                        He rambled on dolefully and Eugene left in great gloom. So it was written
                            in the stars that he was to suffer a period of decline and there was to
                            be more trouble for him in the future. But he did see a period of great
                            success for him between his thirty-second and his thirty-eighth years.
                            That was some comfort. Who was the second woman he was to marry? Was
                            Angela going to die? He walked the streets this early December
                            afternoon, thinking, thinking.
                        The Blue family had heard a great deal of Eugene's success since
                            Angela had come to New York. There had never been a week but at least
                            one letter, and sometimes two, had gone the rounds of the various
                            members of the family. It was written to Marietta primarily, but Mrs.
                            Blue, Jotham, the boys and the several sisters all received it by turns.
                            Thus the whole regiment of Blue connections knew exactly how it was with
                            Angela and even better than it was; for although things had looked
                            prosperous  enough, Angela had not stayed
                            within the limits of bare fact in describing her husband's
                            success. She added atmosphere, not fictitious, but the seeming glory
                            which dwelt in her mind, until the various connections of the Blue
                            family, Marietta in particular, were convinced that there was nothing
                            but dignity and bliss in store for the wife of so talented a man. The
                            studio life which Angela had seen, here and in Paris, the picturesque
                            descriptions which came home from London and Paris, the personalities of
                            M. Charles, M. Arkquin, Isaac Wertheim, Henry L. Tomlins, Luke
                            Severasall the celebrities whom they met, both in New York and abroad,
                            had been described at length. There was not a dinner, a luncheon, a
                            reception, a tea party, which was not pictured in all its native colors
                            and more. Eugene had become somewhat of a demi-god to his Western
                            connections. The quality of his art was never questioned. It was only a
                            little time now before he would be rich or at least well-to-do.
                        All the relatives hoped that he would bring Angela home some day on a
                            visit. To think that she should have married such a distinguished
                            man!
                        In the Witla family it was quite the same. Eugene had not been home to
                            see his parents since his last visit to Blackwood, but they had not been
                            without news. For one thing, Eugene had been neglectful, and somewhat
                            because of this Angela had taken it upon herself to open up a
                            correspondence with his mother. She wrote that of course she
                            didn't know her but that she was terribly fond of Eugene, that
                            she hoped to make him a good wife and that she hoped to make her a
                            satisfactory daughter-in-law. Eugene was so dilatory about writing. She
                            would write for him now and his mother should hear every week. She asked
                            if she and her husband couldn't manage to come and see them
                            sometime. She would be so glad and it would do Eugene so much good. She
                            asked if she couldn't have Myrtle's addressthey had
                            moved from Ottumwaand if Sylvia wouldn't write occasionally.
                            She sent a picture of herself and Eugene, a sketch of the studio which
                            Eugene had made one day, a sketch of herself looking pensively out of
                            the window into Washington Square. Pictures from his first show
                            published in the newspapers, accounts of his work, criticisms,all
                            reached the members of both families impartially and they were kept well
                            aware of how things were going.
                        During the time that Eugene was feeling so badly and because, if he were
                            going to lose his health, it might be necessary to economize greatly, it
                            occurred to Angela that it might be 
                            advisable for them to go home for a visit. While her family were not
                            rich, they had sufficient means to live on. Eugene's mother
                            also was constantly writing, wanting to know why they didn't
                            come out there for a while. She could not see why Eugene could not paint
                            his pictures as well in Alexandria as in New York or Paris. Eugene
                            listened to this willingly, for it occurred to him that instead of going
                            to London he might do Chicago next, and he and Angela could stay awhile
                            at Blackwood and another while at his own home. They would be welcome
                            guests.
                        The condition of his finances at this time was not exactly bad, but it
                            was not very good. Of the thirteen hundred dollars he had received for
                            the first three pictures sold, eleven hundred had been used on the
                            foreign trip. He had since used three hundred dollars of his remaining
                            capital of twelve hundred, but M. Charles' sale of two pictures
                            at four hundred each had swelled his bank balance to seventeen hundred
                            dollars; however, on this he had to live now until additional pictures
                            were disposed of. He daily hoped to hear of additional sales, but none
                            occurred.
                        Moreover, his exhibition in January did not produce quite the impression
                            he thought it would. It was fascinating to look at; the critics and the
                            public imagined that by now he must have created a following for
                            himself, else why should M. Charles make a feature of his work. But
                            Charles pointed out that these foreign studies could not hope to appeal
                            to Americans as did the American things. He indicated that they might
                            take better in France. Eugene was depressed by the general tone of the
                            opinions, but this was due more to his unhealthy state of mind than to
                            any inherent reason for feeling so. There was still Paris to try and
                            there might be some sales of his work here. The latter were slow in
                            materializing, however, and because by February he had not been able to
                            work and because it was necessary that he should husband his resources
                            as carefully as possible, he decided to accept Angela's
                            family's invitation as well as that of his own parents and
                            spend some time in Illinois and Wisconsin. Perhaps his health would
                            become better. He decided also that, if his health permitted, he would
                            work in Chicago.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XI
                        
                            IT was in packing the trunks and leaving the studio in
                            Washington Square (owing to the continued absence of Mr. Dexter they had
                            never been compelled to vacate it) that Angela came across the first
                            evidence of Eugene's duplicity. Because of his peculiar
                            indifference to everything except matters which related to his art, he
                            had put the letters which he had received in times past from Christina
                            Channing, as well as the one and only one from Ruby Kenny, in a box
                            which had formerly contained writing paper and which he threw carelessly
                            in a corner of his trunk. He had by this time forgotten all about them,
                            though his impression was that he had placed them somewhere where they
                            would not be found. When Angela started to lay out the various things
                            which occupied it she came across this box and opening it took out the
                            letters.
                        Curiosity as to things relative to Eugene was at this time the dominant
                            characteristic of her life. She could neither think nor reason outside
                            of this relationship which bound her to him. He and his affairs were
                            truly the sum and substance of her existence. She looked at the letters
                            oddly and then opened onethe first from Christina. It was dated
                            Florizel, the summer of three years before when she was waiting so
                            patiently for him at Blackwood. It began conservatively
                            enough"Dear E," but it concerned itself immediately
                            with references to an apparently affectionate relationship. "I
                            went this morning to see if by chance there were any tell-tale evidences
                            of either Diana or Adonis in Arcady. There were none of importance. A
                            hairpin or two, a broken mother-of-pearl button from a summer waist, the
                            stub of a lead-pencil wherewith a certain genius sketched. The trees
                            seemed just as unconscious of any nymphs or hamadryads as they could be.
                            The smooth grass was quite unruffled of any feet. It is strange how much
                            the trees and forest know and keep their counsel.
                        "And how is the hot city by now? Do you miss a certain
                            evenly-swung hammock? Oh, the odor of leaves and the dew! Don't
                            work too hard. You have an easy future and almost too much vitality.
                            More repose for you, sir, and considerably more optimism of thought. I
                            send you good wishes.Diana."
                        Angela wondered at once who Diana was, for before she had begun the
                            letter she had looked for the signature on the succeeding  page. Then after reading this she hurried
                            feverishly from letter to letter, seeking a name. There was none.
                            "Diana of the Mountains," "The
                            Hamadryad," "The Wood-Nymph,"
                            "C," "C C"so they ran, confusing,
                            badgering, enraging her until all at once it came to lighther first name
                            at least. It was on the letter from Baltimore suggesting that he come to
                            Florizel"Christina."
                        "Ah," she thought, "Christina! That is her
                            name." Then she hurried back to read the remaining epistles,
                            hoping to find some clue to her surname. They were all of the same
                            character, in the manner of writing she despised,top-lofty,
                            make-believe, the nasty, hypocritical, cant and make-believe superiority
                            of the studios. How Angela hated her from that moment. How she could
                            have taken her by the throat and beaten her head against the trees she
                            described. Oh, the horrid creature! How dare she! And Eugenehow could
                            he! What a way to reward her love! What an answer to make to all her
                            devotion! At the very time when she was waiting so patiently, he was in
                            the mountains with this Diana. And here she was packing his trunk for
                            him like the little slave that she was when he cared so little, had
                            apparently cared so little all this time. How could he ever have cared
                            for her and done anything like this! He didn't! He never had!
                            Dear Heaven!
                        She began clenching and unclenching her hands dramatically, working
                            herself into that frenzy of emotion and regret which was her most
                            notable characteristic. All at once she stopped. There was another
                            letter in another handwriting on cheaper paper. "Ruby"
                            was the signature.
                        "Dear Eugene:"she read "I got your note
                            several weeks ago, but I couldn't bring myself to answer it
                            before this. I know everything is over between us and that is all right
                            I suppose. It has to be. You couldn't love any woman long, I
                            think. I know what you say about having to go to New York to broaden
                            your field is true. You ought to, but I'm sorry you
                            didn't come out. You might have. Still I don't blame
                            you, Eugene. It isn't much different from what has been going
                            on for some time. I have cared, but I'll get over that, I know,
                            and I won't ever think hard of you. Won't you return
                            me the notes I have sent you from time to time, and my picture? You
                            won't want them now.Ruby."
                        "I stood by the window last night and looked out on the street.
                            The moon was shining and those dead trees were waving in the wind. I saw
                            the moon on that pool of water over in the field. It looked like silver.
                            Oh, Eugene, I wish that I were dead."
                        
                        Angela got up (as Eugene had) when she read this. The pathos struck home,
                            for somehow it matched her own. Ruby! Who was she? Where had she been
                            concealed while she, Angela, was coming to Chicago? Was this the fall
                            and winter of their engagement? It certainly was. Look at the date. He
                            had given her the diamond ring on her finger that fall! He had sworn
                            eternal affection! He had sworn there was never another girl like her in
                            all the world and yet, at that very time, he was apparently paying court to this woman if nothing worse. Heaven! Could
                            anything like this really be? He was telling her that he loved her and
                            making love to this Ruby at the same time. He was kissing and fondling
                            her and Ruby too!! Was there ever such a situation? He, Eugene Witla, to
                            deceive her this way. No wonder he wanted to get rid of her when he came
                            to New York. He would have treated her as he had this Ruby. And
                            Christina! This Christina!! Where was she? Who was she? What was she
                            doing now? She jumped up prepared to go to Eugene and charge him with
                            his iniquities, but remembered that he was out of the studiothat he had
                            gone for a walk. He was sick now, very sick. Would she dare to reproach
                            him with these reprehensible episodes?
                        She came back to the trunk where she was working and sat down. Her eyes
                            were hard and cold for the time, but at the same time there was a touch
                            of terror and of agonized affection. A face that, in the ordinary lines
                            of its repose, was very much like that of a madonna, was now drawn and
                            peaked and gray. Apparently Christina had forsaken him, or it might be
                            that they still corresponded secretly. She got up again at that thought.
                            Still the letters were old. It looked as though all communication had
                            ceased two years ago. What had he written to her?love notes. Letters
                            full of wooing phrases such as he had written to her. Oh, the
                            instability of men, the insincerity, the lack of responsibility and
                            sense of duty. Her father,what a different man he was; her
                            brothers,their word was their bond. And here was she married to a man
                            who, even in the days of his most ardent wooing, had been deceiving her.
                            She had let him lead her astray, too,disgrace her own home. Tears came
                            after a while, hot, scalding tears that seared her cheeks. And now she
                            was married to him and he was sick and she would have to make the best
                            of it. She wanted to make the best of it, for after all she loved
                            him.
                        But oh, the cruelty, the insincerity, the unkindness, the brutality of it
                            all.
                        The fact that Eugene was out for several hours following  her discovery gave her ample time to
                            reflect as to a suitable course of action. Being so impressed by the
                            genius of the man, as imposed upon her by the opinion of others and her
                            own affection, she could not readily think of anything save some method
                            of ridding her soul of this misery and him of his evil tendencies, of
                            making him ashamed of his wretched career, of making him see how badly
                            he had treated her and how sorry he ought to be. She wanted him to feel
                            sorry, very sorry, so that he would be a long time repenting in
                            suffering, but she feared at the same time that she could not make him
                            do that. He was so ethereal, so indifferent, so lost in the
                            contemplation of life that he could not be made to think of her. That
                            was her one complaint. He had other gods before herthe god of his art,
                            the god of nature, the god of people as a spectacle. Frequently she had
                            complained to him in this last year"you don't love me!
                            you don't love me!" but he would answer, "oh,
                            yes I do. I can't be talking to you all the time, Angel-face. I
                            have work to do. My art has to be cultivated. I can't be making
                            love all the time."
                        "Oh, it isn't that, it isn't that!"
                            she would exclaim passionately. "You just don't love
                            me, like you ought to. You just don't care. If you did
                            I'd feel it."
                        "Oh, Angela," he answered, "why do you talk
                            so? Why do you carry on so? You're the funniest girl I ever
                            knew. Now be reasonable. Why don't you bring a little
                            philosophy to bear? We can't he billing and cooing all the
                            time!"
                        "Billing and cooing! That's the way you think of it.
                            That's the way you talk of it! As though it were something you
                            had to do. Oh, I hate love! I hate life! I hate philosophy! I wish I
                            could die."
                        "Now, Angela, for Heaven's sake, why will you take on
                            so? I can't stand this. I can't stand these tantrums
                            of yours. They're not reasonable. You know I love you. Why,
                            haven't I shown it? Why should I have married you if I
                            didn't? I wasn't obliged to marry you!"
                        "Oh, dear! oh, dear!" Angela would sob on, wringing her
                            hands. "Oh, you really don't love me! You
                            don't care! And it will go on this way, getting worse and
                            worse, with less and less of love and feeling until after awhile you
                            won't even want to see me any moreyou'll hate me! Oh,
                            dear! oh, dear!"
                        Eugene felt keenly the pathos involved in this picture of decaying love.
                            In fact, her fear of the disaster which might overtake her little bark
                            of happiness was sufficiently well founded. It might be that his
                            affection would ceaseit wasn't even affection now in the true
                            sense of the word,a passionate intellectual  desire for her companionship. He never had really loved her for her
                            mind, the beauty of her thoughts. As he meditated he realized that he
                            had never reached an understanding with her by an intellectual process
                            at all. It was emotional, subconscious, a natural drawing together which
                            was not based on reason and spirituality of contemplation apparently,
                            but on grosser emotions and desires. Physical desire had been
                            involvedstrong, raging, uncontrollable. And for some reason he had
                            always felt sorry for herhe always had. She was so little, so conscious
                            of disaster, so afraid of life and what it might do to her. It was a
                            shame to wreck her hopes and desires. At the same time he was sorry now
                            for this bondage he had let himself intothis yoke which he had put about
                            his neck. He could have done so much better. He might have married a
                            woman of wealth or a woman with artistic perceptions and philosophic
                            insight like Christina Channing, who would be peaceful and happy with
                            him. Angela couldn't be. He really didn't admire her
                            enough, couldn't fuss over her enough. Even while he was
                            soothing her in these moments, trying to make her believe that there was
                            no basis for her fears, sympathizing with her subconscious intuitions
                            that all was not well, he was thinking of how different his life might
                            have been.
                        "It won't end that way," he would soothe.
                            "Don't cry. Come now, don't cry.
                            We're going to be very happy. I'm going to love you
                            always, just as I'm loving you now, and you're going
                            to love me. Won't that be all right? Come on, now. Cheer up.
                            Don't be so pessimistic. Come on, Angela. Please do.
                            Please!"
                        Angela would brighten after a time, but there were spells of apprehension
                            and gloom; they were common, apt to burst forth like a summer storm when
                            neither of them was really expecting it.
                        The discovery of these letters now checked the feeling, with which she
                            tried to delude herself at times, that there might be anything more than
                            kindness here. They confirmed her suspicions that there was not and
                            brought on that sense of defeat and despair which so often and so
                            tragically overcame her. It did it at a time, too, when Eugene needed
                            her undivided consideration and feeling, for he was in a wretched state
                            of mind. To have her quarrel with him now, lose her temper, fly into
                            rages and compel him to console her, was very trying. He was in no mood
                            for it; could not very well endure it without injury to himself. He was
                            seeking for an atmosphere of joyousness, wishing to find a cheerful
                            optimism somewhere which would pull  him
                            out of himself and make him whole. Not infrequently he dropped in to see
                            Norma Whitmore, Isadora Crane, who was getting along very well on the
                            stage, Hedda Andersen, who had a natural charm of intellect with much
                            vivacity, even though she was a model, and now and then Miriam Finch.
                            The latter was glad to see him alone, almost as a testimony against
                            Angela, though she would not go out of her way to conceal from Angela
                            the fact that he had been there. The others, though he said nothing,
                            assumed that since Angela did not come with him he wanted nothing said
                            and observed his wish. They were inclined to think that he had made a
                            matrimonial mistake and was possibly artistically or intellectually
                            lonely. All of them noted his decline in health with considerate
                            apprehension and sorrow. It was too bad, they thought, if his health was
                            going to fail him just at this time. Eugene lived in fear lest Angela
                            should become aware of any of these visits. He thought he could not tell
                            her because in the first place she would resent his not having taken her
                            with him; and in the next, if he had proposed it first, she would have
                            objected, or set another date, or asked pointless questions. He liked
                            the liberty of going where he pleased, saying nothing, not feeling it
                            necessary to say anything. He longed for the freedom of his old
                            pre-matrimonial days. Just at this time, because he could not work
                            artistically and because he was in need of diversion and of joyous
                            artistic palaver, he was especially miserable. Life seemed very dark and
                            ugly.
                        Eugene, returning and feeling, as usual, depressed about his state,
                            sought to find consolation in her company. He came in at one
                            o'clock, their usual lunch hour, and finding Angela still
                            working, said, "George! but you like to keep at things when you
                            get started, don't you? You're a regular little
                            work-horse. Having much trouble?"
                        "No-o," replied Angela, dubiously.
                        Eugene noted the tone of her voice. He thought she was not very strong
                            and this packing was getting on her nerves. Fortunately there were only
                            some trunks to look after, for the vast mass of their housekeeping
                            materials belonged to the studio. Still no doubt she was weary.
                        "Are you very tired?" he asked.
                        "No-o," she replied.
                        "You look it," he said, slipping his arm about her. Her
                            face, which he turned up with his hand, was pale and drawn.
                        "It isn't anything physical," she replied,
                            looking away from him in a tragic way. "It's just my
                            heart. It's here!" and she laid her hand over her
                            heart.
                        
                        "What's the matter now?" he asked, suspecting
                            something emotional, though for the life of him he could not imagine
                            what. "Does your heart hurt you?"
                        "It isn't my real heart," she returned,
                            "it's just my mind, my feelings; though I
                            don't suppose they ought to matter."
                        "What's the matter now, Angel-face," he
                            persisted, for he was sorry for her. This emotional ability of hers had
                            the power to move him. It might have been acting, or it might not have
                            been. It might be either a real or a fancied woe;in either case it was
                            real to her. "What's come up?" he continued.
                            "Aren't you just tired? Suppose we quit this and go
                            out somewhere and get something to eat. You'll feel
                            better."
                        "No, I couldn't eat," she replied.
                            "I'll stop now and get your lunch, but I
                            don't want anything."
                        "Oh, what's the matter, Angela?" he begged.
                            "I know there's something. Now what is it?
                            You're tired, or you're sick, or something has
                            happened. Is it anything that I have done? Look at me! Is
                            it?"
                        Angela held away from him, looking down. She did not know how to begin
                            this but she wanted to make him terribly sorry if she could, as sorry as
                            she was for herself. She thought he ought to be; that if he had any true
                            feeling of shame and sympathy in him he would be. Her own condition in
                            the face of his shameless past was terrible. She had no one to love her.
                            She had no one to turn to. Her own family did not understand her life
                            any moreit had changed so. She was a different woman now, greater, more
                            important, more distinguished. Her experiences with Eugene here in New
                            York, in Paris, in London and even before her marriage, in Chicago and
                            Blackwood, had changed her point of view. She was no longer the same in
                            her ideas, she thought, and to find herself deserted in this way
                            emotionallynot really loved, not ever having been really loved but just
                            toyed with, made a doll and a plaything, was terrible.
                        "Oh, dear!" she exclaimed in a shrill staccato,
                            "I don't know what to do! I don't know what
                            to say! I don't know what to think! If I only knew how to think
                            or what to do!"
                        "What's the matter?" begged Eugene, releasing
                            his hold and turning his thoughts partially to himself and his own
                            condition as well as to hers. His nerves were put on edge by these
                            emotional tantrumshis brain fairly ached. It made his hands tremble. In
                            his days of physical and nervous soundness it did not matter, but now,
                            when he was sick, when his own heart was weak, as he fancied, and his
                            nerves set to jangling by the least discord, it was almost more than he
                            could bear. "Why don't 
                            you speak?" he insisted. "You know I can't
                            stand this. I'm in no condition. What's the trouble?
                            What's the use of carrying on this way? Are you going to tell
                            me?"
                        "There!" Angela said, pointing her finger at the box of
                            letters she had laid aside on the window-sill. She knew he would see
                            them, would remember instantly what they were about.
                        Eugene looked. The box came to his memory instantly. He picked it up
                            nervously, sheepishly, for this was like a blow in the face which he had
                            no power to resist. The whole peculiar nature of his transactions with
                            Ruby and with Christina came back to him, not as they had looked to him
                            at the time, but as they were appearing to Angela now. What must she
                            think of him? Here he was protesting right along that he loved her, that
                            he was happy and satisfied to live with her, that he was not interested
                            in any of these other women whom she knew to be interested in him and of
                            whom she was inordinately jealous, that he had always loved her and her
                            only, and yet here were these letters suddenly come to light, giving the
                            lie to all these protestations and asseverationsmaking him look like the
                            coward, the blackguard, the moral thief that he knew himself to be. To
                            be dragged out of the friendly darkness of lack of knowledge and
                            understanding on her part and set forth under the clear white light of
                            positive proofhe stared helplessly, his nerves trembling, his brain
                            aching, for truly he was in no condition for an emotional argument.
                        And yet Angela was crying now. She had walked away from him and was
                            leaning against the mantel-piece sobbing as if her heart would break.
                            There was a real convincing ache in the soundthe vibration expressing
                            the sense of loss and defeat and despair which she felt. He was staring
                            at the box wondering why he had been such an idiot as to leave them in
                            his trunk, to have saved them at all.
                        "Well, I don't know that there is anything to say to
                            that," he observed finally, strolling over to where she was.
                            There wasn't anything that he could saythat he knew. He was
                            terribly sorrysorry for her, sorry for himself. "Did you read
                            them all?" he asked, curiously.
                        She nodded her head in the affirmative.
                        "Well, I didn't care so much for Christina
                            Channing," he observed, deprecatingly. He wanted to say
                            something, anything which would relieve her depressed mood. He knew it
                            couldn't be much. If he could only make her believe that there
                            wasn't anything vital in either of these affairs, that his
                            interests and protestations had been of a light, philandering character.
                            Still  the Ruby Kenny letter showed that
                            she cared for him desperately. He could not say anything against
                            Ruby.
                        Angela caught the name of Christina Channing clearly. It seared itself in
                            her brain. She recalled now that it was she of whom she had heard him
                            speak in a complimentary way from time to time. He had told in studios
                            of what a lovely voice she had, what a charming platform presence she
                            had, how she could sing so feelingly, how intelligently she looked upon
                            life, how good looking she was, how she was coming back to grand opera
                            some day. And he had been in the mountains with herhad made love to her
                            while she, Angela, was out in Blackwood waiting for him patiently. It
                            aroused on the instant all the fighting jealousy that was in her breast;
                            it was the same jealousy that had determined her once before to hold him
                            in spite of the plotting and scheming that appeared to her to be going
                            on about her. They should not have himthese nasty studio
                            superioritiesnot any one of them, nor all of them combined, if they were
                            to unite and try to get him. They had treated her shamefully since she
                            had been in the East. They had almost uniformly ignored her. They would
                            come to see Eugene, of course, and now that he was famous they could not
                            be too nice to him, but as for herwell, they had no particular use for
                            her. Hadn't she seen it! Hadn't she watched the
                            critical, hypocritical, examining expressions in their eyes! She
                            wasn't smart enough! She wasn't literary enough or
                            artistic enough. She knew as much about life as they did and moreten
                            times as much; and yet because she couldn't strut and pose and
                            stare and talk in an affected voice they thought themselves superior.
                            And so did Eugene, the wretched creature! Superior! The cheap, mean,
                            nasty, selfish upstarts! Why, the majority of them had nothing. Their
                            clothes were mere rags and tags, when you came to examine them
                            closelybadly sewed, of poor material, merely slung together, and yet
                            they wore them with such a grand air! She would show them. She would
                            dress herself too, one of these days, when Eugene had the means. She was
                            doing it nowa great deal more than when she first came, and she would do
                            it a great deal more before long. The nasty, mean, cheap, selfish,
                            make-belief things. She would show them! O-oh! how she hated them.
                        Now as she cried she also thought of the fact that Eugene could write
                            love letters to this horrible Christina Channingone of the same kind, no
                            doubt; her letters showed it. O-oh! how she hated her! If she could only
                            get at her to poison her. And her sobs sounded much more of the sorrow
                            she felt than of  the rage. She was
                            helpless in a way and she knew it. She did not dare to show him exactly
                            what she felt. She was afraid of him. He might possibly leave her. He
                            really did not care for her enough to stand everything from heror did
                            he? This doubt was the one terrible, discouraging, annihilating feature
                            of the whole thingif he only cared.
                        "I wish you wouldn't cry, Angela," said Eugene
                            appealingly, after a time. "It isn't as bad as you
                            think. It looks pretty bad, but I wasn't married then, and I
                            didn't care so very much for these peoplenot as much as you
                            think; really I didn't. It may look that way to you, but I
                            didn't."
                        "Didn't care!" sneered Angela, all at once,
                            flaring up. "Didn't care! It looks as though you
                            didn't care, with one of them calling you Honey Boy and Adonis,
                            and the other saying she wishes she were dead. A fine time
                            you'd have convincing anyone that you didn't care. And
                            I out in Blackwood at that very time, longing and waiting for you to
                            come, and you up in the mountains making love to another woman. Oh, I
                            know how much you cared. You showed how much you cared when you could
                            leave me out there to wait for you eating my heart out while you were
                            off in the mountains having a good time with another woman.
                            'Dear E,' and 'Precious Honey Boy,'
                            and 'Adonis'! That shows how much you cared,
                            doesn't it!"
                        Eugene stared before him helplessly. Her bitterness and wrath surprised
                            and irritated him. He did not know that she was capable of such an awful
                            rage as showed itself in her face and words at this moment, and yet he
                            did not know but that she was well justified. Why so bitter thoughso
                            almost brutal? He was sick. Had she no consideration for him?
                        "I tell you it wasn't as bad as you think," he
                            said stolidly, showing for the first time a trace of temper and
                            opposition. "I wasn't married then. I did like
                            Christina Channing; I did like Ruby Kenny. What of it? I can't
                            help it now. What am I going to say about it? What do you want me to
                            say? What do you want me to do?"
                        "Oh," whimpered Angela, changing her tone at once from
                            helpless accusing rage to pleading, self-commiserating misery.
                            "And you can stand there and say to me 'what of
                            it'? What of it! What of it! What shall you say? What do you
                            think you ought to say? And me believing that you were so honorable and
                            faithful! Oh, if I had only known! If I had only known! I had better
                            have drowned myself a hundred times over than have waked and found that
                            I wasn't loved. Oh, dear, oh, dear! I don't know what
                            I ought to do! I don't know what I can do
                        
                        
                        "But I do love you," protested Eugene soothingly,
                            anxious to say or do anything which would quiet this terrific storm. He
                            could not imagine how he could have been so foolish as to leave these
                            letters lying around. Dear Heaven! What a mess he had made of this! If
                            only he had put them safely outside the home or destroyed them. Still he
                            had wanted to keep Christina's letters; they were so
                            charming.
                        "Yes, you love me!" flared Angela. "I see how
                            you love me. Those letters show it! Oh, dear! oh, dear! I wish I were
                            dead."
                        "Listen to me, Angela," replied Eugene desperately,
                            "I know this correspondence looks bad. I did make love to Miss
                            Kenny and to Christina Channing, but you see I didn't care
                            enough to marry either of them. If I had I would have. I cared for you.
                            Believe it or not. I married you. Why did I marry you? Answer me that? I
                            needn't have married you. Why did I? Because I loved you, of
                            course. What other reason could I have?"
                        "Because you couldn't get Christina Channing,"
                            snapped Angela, angrily, with the intuitive sense of one who reasons
                            from one material fact to another, "that's why. If you
                            could have, you would have. I know it. Her letters show
                            it."
                        "Her letters don't show anything of the sort,"
                            returned Eugene angrily. "I couldn't get her? I could
                            have had her, easily enough. I didn't want her. If I had wanted
                            her, I would have married heryou can bet on that."
                        He hated himself for lying in this way, but he felt for the time being
                            that he had to do it. He did not care to stand in the rle of a jilted
                            lover. He half-fancied that he could have married Christina if he had
                            really tried.
                        "Anyhow," he said, "I'm not going to
                            argue that point with you. I didn't marry her, so there you
                            are; and I didn't marry Ruby Kenny either. Well you can think
                            all you want; but I know. I cared for them, but I didn't marry
                            them. I married you instead. I ought to get credit for something on that
                            score. I married you because I loved you, I suppose. That's
                            perfectly plain, isn't it?" He was half convincing
                            himself that he had loved herin some degree.
                        "Yes, I see how you love me," persisted Angela,
                            cogitating this very peculiar fact which he was insisting on and which
                            it was very hard intellectually to overcome. "You married me
                            because you couldn't very well get out of it, that's
                            why. Oh, I know. You didn't want to marry me. That's
                            very plain. You wanted to marry someone else. Oh, dear! oh,
                            dear!"
                        
                        "Oh, how you talk!" replied Eugene defiantly.
                            "Marry someone else! Whom did I want to marry? I could have
                            married often enough if I had wanted to. I didn't want to
                            marry, that's all. Believe it or not. I wanted to marry you and
                            I did. I don't think you have any right to stand there and
                            argue so. What you say isn't so, and you know it."
                        Angela cogitated this argument further. He had married her! Why had he?
                            He might have cared for Christina and Ruby, but he must have cared for
                            her too. Why hadn't she thought of that? There was something in
                            itsomething besides a mere desire to deceive her. Perhaps he did care
                            for her a little. Anyway it was plain that she could not get very far by
                            arguing with himhe was getting stubborn, argumentative, contentious. She
                            had not seen him that way before.
                        "Oh!" she sobbed, taking refuge from this very
                            difficult realm of logic in the safer and more comfortable one of
                            illogical tears. "I don't know what to do! I
                            don't know what to think!"
                        She was badly treated, no doubt of that. Her life was a failure, but even
                            so there was some charm about him. As he stood there, looking aimlessly
                            around, defiant at one moment, appealing at another, she could not help
                            seeing that he was not wholly bad. He was just weak on this one point.
                            He loved pretty women. They were always trying to win him to them. He
                            was probably not wholly to blame. If he would only be repentant enough,
                            this thing might be allowed to blow over. It couldn't be
                            forgiven. She never could forgive him for the way he had deceived her.
                            Her ideal of him had been pretty hopelessly shatteredbut she might live
                            with him on probation.
                        "Angela!" he said, while she was still sobbing, and
                            feeling that he ought to apologize to her. "Won't you
                            believe me? Won't you forgive me? I don't like to hear
                            you cry this way. There's no use saying that I didn't
                            do anything. There's no use my saying anything at all, really.
                            You won't believe me. I don't want you to; but
                            I'm sorry. Won't you believe that? Won't you
                            forgive me?"
                        Angela listened to this curiously, her thoughts going around in a ring
                            for she was at once despairing, regretful, revengeful, critical,
                            sympathetic toward him, desirous of retaining her state, desirous of
                            obtaining and retaining his love, desirous of punishing him, desirous of
                            doing any one of a hundred things. Oh, if he had only never done this!
                            And he was sickly, too. He needed her sympathy.
                        "Won't you forgive me, Angela?" he pleaded
                            softly, laying his hand on her arm. "I'm not going to
                            do anything like  that any more.
                            Won't you believe me? Come on now. Quit trying, won't
                            you?"
                        Angela hesitated for a while, lingering dolefully. She did not know what
                            to do, what to say. It might be that he would not sin against her any
                            more. He had not thus far, in so far as she knew. Still this was a
                            terrible revelation. All at once, because he manoeuvred himself into a
                            suitable position and because she herself was weary of fighting and
                            crying, and because she was longing for sympathy, she allowed herself to
                            be pulled into his arms, her head to his shoulder, and there she cried
                            more copiously than ever. Eugene for the moment felt terribly grieved.
                            He was really sorry for her. It wasn't right. He ought to be
                            ashamed of himself. He should never have done anything like that.
                        "I'm sorry," he whispered, "really I
                            am. Won't you forgive me?"
                        "Oh, I don't know what to do! what to think!"
                            moaned Angela after a time.
                        "Please do, Angela," he urged, holding her
                            questioningly.
                        There was more of this pleading and emotional badgering until finally out
                            of sheer exhaustion Angela said yes. Eugene's nerves were worn
                            to a thread by the encounter. He was pale, exhausted, distraught. Many
                            scenes like this, he thought, would set him crazy; and still he had to
                            go through a world of petting and love-making even now. It was not easy
                            to bring her back to her normal self. It was bad business, this
                            philandering, he thought. It seemed to lead to all sorts of misery for
                            him, and Angela was jealous. Dear Heaven! what a wrathful, vicious,
                            contentious nature she had when she was aroused. He had never suspected
                            that. How could he truly love her when she acted like that? How could he
                            sympathize with her? He recalled know she sneered at himhow she taunted
                            him with Christina's having discarded him. He was weary,
                            excited, desirous of rest and sleep, but now he must make more love. He
                            fondled her, and by degrees she came out of her blackest mood; but he
                            was not really forgiven even then. He was just understood better. And
                            she was not truly happy again but only hopefuland watchful.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XII
                        
                            SPRING, summer and fall came and went with Eugene and
                            Angela first in Alexandria and then in Blackwood. In suffering this
                            nervous breakdown and being compelled to leave New York, Eugene missed
                            some of the finest fruits of his artistic efforts, for M. Charles, as
                            well as a number of other people, were interested in him and were
                            prepared to entertain him in an interesting and conspicuous way. He
                            could have gone, out a great deal, but his mental state was such that he
                            was poor company for anyone. He was exceedingly morbid, inclined to
                            discuss gloomy subjects, to look on life as exceedingly sad and to
                            believe that people generally were evil. Lust, dishonesty, selfishness,
                            envy, hypocrisy, slander, hate, theft, adultery, murder, dementia,
                            insanity, inanitythese and death and decay occupied his thoughts. There
                            was no light anywhere. Only a storm of evil and death. These ideas
                            coupled with his troubles with Angela, the fact that he could not work,
                            the fact that he felt he had made a matrimonial mistake, the fact that
                            he feared he might die or go crazy, made a terrible and agonizing winter
                            for him.
                        Angela's attitude, while sympathetic enough, once the first
                            storm of feeling was over, was nevertheless involved with a substratum
                            of criticism. While she said nothing, agreed that she would forget,
                            Eugene had the consciousness all the while that she wasn't
                            forgetting, that she was secretly reproaching him and that she was
                            looking for new manifestations of weakness in this direction, expecting
                            them and on the alert to prevent them.
                        The spring-time in Alexandria, opening as it did shortly after they
                            reached there, was in a way a source of relief to Eugene. He had decided
                            for the time being to give up trying to work, to give up his idea of
                            going either to London or Chicago, and merely rest. Perhaps it was true
                            that he was tired. He didn't feel that way. He
                            couldn't sleep and he couldn't work, but he felt brisk
                            enough. It was only because he couldn't work that he was
                            miserable. Still he decided to try sheer idleness. Perhaps that would
                            revive his wonderful art for him. Meantime he speculated ceaselessly on
                            the time he was losing, the celebrities he was missing, the places he
                            was not seeing. Oh, London, London! If he could only do that.
                        
                        Mr. and Mrs. Witla were immensely pleased to have their boy back with
                            them again. Being in their way simple, unsophisticated people, they
                            could not understand how their son's health could have
                            undergone such a sudden reverse.
                        "I never saw Gene looking so bad in all his life,"
                            observed Witla pre to his wife the day Eugene arrived. "His
                            eyes are so sunken. What in the world do you suppose is ailing
                            him?"
                        "How should I know?" replied his wife, who was greatly
                            distressed over her boy. "I suppose he's just tired
                            out, that's all. He'll probably be all right after he
                            rests awhile. Don't let on that you think he's looking
                            out of sorts. Just pretend that he's all right. What do you
                            think of his wife?"
                        "She appears to be a very nice little woman," replied
                            Witla. "She's certainly devoted to him. I never
                            thought Eugene would marry just that type, but he's the judge.
                            I suppose people thought that I would never marry anybody like you,
                            either," he added jokingly.
                        "Yes, you did make a terrible mistake," jested his wife
                            in return. "You worked awfully hard to make it."
                        "I was young! I was young! You want to remember that,"
                            retorted Witla. "I didn't know much in those
                            days."
                        "You don't appear to know much better yet,"
                            she replied, "do you?"
                        He smiled and patted her on the back. "Well, anyhow
                            I'll have to make the best of it, won't I?
                            It's too late now."
                        "It certainly is," replied his wife.
                        Eugene and Angela were given his old room on the second floor, commanding
                            a nice view of the yard and the street corner, and they settled down to
                            spend what the Witla parents hoped would be months of peaceful days. It
                            was a curious sensation to Eugene to find himself back here in
                            Alexandria looking out upon the peaceful neighborhood in which he had
                            been raised, the trees, the lawn, the hammock replaced several times
                            since he had left, but still in its accustomed place. The thought of the
                            little lakes and the small creek winding about the town were a comfort
                            to him. He could go fishing now and boating, and there were some
                            interesting walks here and there. He began to amuse himself by going
                            fishing the first week, but it was still a little cold, and he decided,
                            for the time being, to confine himself to walking.
                        Days of this kind grow as a rule quickly monotonous. To a man of
                            Eugene's turn of mind there was so little in Alexandria to
                            entertain him. After London and Paris, Chicago and New York, the quiet
                            streets of his old home town were a joke. He  visited the office of the Appeal but
                            both Jonas Lyle and Caleb Wililams had gone, the former to St. Louis,
                            the latter to Bloomington. Old Benjamin Burgess, his sister's
                            husband's father, was unchanged except in the matter of years.
                            He told Eugene that he was thinking of running for Congress in the next
                            campaignthe Republican organization owed it to him. His son Henry,
                            Sylvia's husband, had become a treasurer of the local bank. He
                            was working as patiently and quietly as ever, going to church Sundays,
                            going to Chicago occasionally on business, consulting with farmers and
                            business men about small loans. He was a close student of the several
                            banking journals of the country, and seemed to be doing very well
                            financially. Sylvia had little to say of how he was getting along.
                            Having lived with him for eleven years, she had become somewhat
                            closemouthed like himself. Eugene could not help smiling at the lean,
                            slippered subtlety of the man, young as he was. He was so quiet, so
                            conservative, so intent on all the little things which make a
                            conventionally successful life. Like a cabinet maker, he was busy
                            inlaying the little pieces which would eventually make the perfect
                            whole.
                        Angela took up the household work, which Mrs. Witla grudgingly consented
                            to share with her, with a will. She liked to work and would put the
                            house in order while Mrs. Witla was washing the dishes after breakfast.
                            She would make special pies and cakes for Eugene when she could without
                            giving offense, and she tried to conduct herself so that Mrs. Witla
                            would like her. She did not think so much of the Witla household. It
                            wasn't so much better than her ownhardly as good. Still it was
                            Eugene's birthplace and for that reason important. There was a
                            slight divergence of view-point though, between his mother and herself,
                            over the nature of life and how to live it. Mrs. Witla was of an easier,
                            more friendly outlook on life than Angela. She liked to take things as
                            they came without much worry, while Angela was of a naturally worrying
                            disposition. The two had one very human failing in commonthey could not
                            work with anyone else at anything. Each preferred to do all that was to
                            be done rather than share it at all. Both being so anxious to be
                            conciliatory for Eugene's sake and for permanent peace in the
                            family, there was small chance for any disagreement, for neither was
                            without tact. But there was just a vague hint of something in the
                            airthat Angela was a little hard and selfish, on Mrs. Witla's
                            part; that Mrs. Witla was just the least bit secretive, or shy or
                            distantfrom Angela's point of view. All was serene and  lovely on the surface, however, with many
                            won't-you-let-me's and please-do-now's on
                            both sides. Mrs. Witla, being so much older, was, of course, calmer and
                            in the family seat of dignity and peace.
                        To be able to sit about in a chair, lie in a hammock, stroll in the woods
                            and country fields and be perfectly happy in idle contemplation and
                            loneliness, requires an exceptional talent for just that sort of thing.
                            Eugene once fancied he had it, as did his parents, but since he had
                            heard the call of fame he could never be still any more. And just at
                            this time he was not in need of solitude and idle contemplation but of
                            diversion and entertainment. He needed companionship of the right sort,
                            gayety, sympathy, enthusiasm. Angela had some of this, when she was not
                            troubled about anything, his parents, his sister, his old acquaintances
                            had a little more to offer. They could not, however, be forever talking
                            to him or paying him attention, and beyond them there was nothing. The
                            town had no resources. Eugene would walk the long country roads with
                            Angela or go boating or fishing sometimes, but still he was lonely. He
                            would sit on the porch or in the hammock and think of what he had seen
                            in London and Parishow he might be at work. St. Paul's in a
                            mist, the Thames Embankment, Piccadilly, Blackfriars Bridge, the muck of
                            Whitechapel and the East Endhow he wished he was out of all this and
                            painting them. If he could only paint. He rigged up a studio in his
                            father's barn, using a north loft door for light and essayed
                            certain things from memory, but there was no making anything come out
                            right. He had this fixed belief, which was a notion purely, that there
                            was always something wrong. Angela, his mother, his father, whom he
                            occasionally asked for an opinion, might protest that it was beautiful
                            or wonderful, but he did not believe it. After a few altering ideas of
                            this kind, under the influences of which he would change and change and
                            change things, he would find himself becoming wild in his feelings,
                            enraged at his condition, intensely despondent and sorry for
                            himself.
                        "Well," he would say, throwing down his brush,
                            "I shall simply have to wait until I come out of this. I
                            can't do anything this way." Then he would walk or
                            read or row on the lakes or play solitaire, or listen to Angela playing
                            on the piano that his father had installed for Myrtle long since. All
                            the time though he was thinking of his condition, what he was missing,
                            how the gay world was surging on rapidly elsewhere, how long it would be
                            before he got well, if ever. He talked of going to Chicago and trying
                            his hand at scenes there, but Angela persuaded  him to rest for a while longer. In June she promised him
                            they would go to Blackwood for the summer, coming back here in the fall
                            if he wished, or going on to New York or staying in Chicago, just as he
                            felt about it. Now he needed rest.
                        "Eugene will probably be all right by them," Angela
                            volunteered to his mother, "and he can make up his mind whether
                            he wants to go to Chicago or London."
                        She was very proud of her ability to talk of where they would go and what
                            they would do.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XIII
                        
                            IF it had not been for the lurking hope of some fresh
                            exciting experience with a woman, he would have been unconscionably
                            lonely. As it was, this thought with himquite as the confirmed
                            drunkard's thought of whiskeybuoyed him up, kept him from
                            despairing utterly, gave his mind the only diversion it had from the
                            ever present thought of failure. If by chance he should meet some truly
                            beautiful girl, gay, enticing, who would fall in love with him! that
                            would be happiness. Only, Angela was constantly watching him these days
                            and, besides, more girls would simply mean that his condition would be
                            aggravated. Yet so powerful was the illusion of desire, the sheer animal
                            magnetism of beauty, that when it came near him in the form of a lovely
                            girl of his own temperamental inclinations he could not resist it. One
                            look into an inviting eye, one glance at a face whose outlines were soft
                            and delicatefull of that subtle suggestion of youth and health which is
                            so characteristic of girlhoodand the spell was cast. It was as though
                            the very form of the face, without will or intention on the part of the
                            possessor, acted hypnotically upon its beholder. The Arabians believed
                            in the magic power of the word Abracadabra to cast a spell. For Eugene
                            the form of a woman's face and body was quite as powerful.
                        While he and Angela were in Alexandria from February to May, he met one
                            night at his sister's house a girl who, from the point of view
                            of the beauty which he admired and to which he was so susceptible, was
                            extremely hypnotic, and who for the ease and convenience of a flirtation
                            was very favorably situated. She was the daughter of a traveling man,
                            George Roth by name, whose wife, the child's mother, was dead,
                            but who lived with his sister in an old tree-shaded house on the edge of
                            Green Lake not far from the spot where Eugene had once attempted to
                            caress his first love, Stella Appleton. Frieda was the girl's
                            name. She was extremely attractive, not more than eighteen years of age,
                            with large, clear, blue eyes, a wealth of yellowish-brown hair and a
                            plump but shapely figure. She was a graduate of the local high school,
                            well developed for her years, bright, rosy-cheeked, vivacious and with a
                            great deal of natural intelligence which attracted the attention of
                            Eugene at once. Normally he was extremely fond of a natural, cheerful
                                 laughing disposition. In his present
                            state he was abnormally so. This girl and her foster mother had heard of
                            him a long time since through his parents and his sister, whom they knew
                            well and whom they visited frequently. George Roth had moved here since
                            Eugene had first left for Chicago, and because he was so much on the
                            road he had not seen him since. Frieda, on all his previous visits, had
                            been too young to take an interest in men, but now at this age, when she
                            was just blossoming into womanhood, her mind was fixed on them. She did
                            not expect to be interested in Eugene because she knew he was married,
                            but because of his reputation as an artist she was curious about him.
                            Everybody knew who he was. The local papers had written up his success
                            and published his portrait, Frieda expected to see a man of about forty,
                            stern and sober. Instead she met a smiling youth of twenty-nine, rather
                            gaunt and hollow-eyed, but none the less attractive for that. Eugene,
                            with Angela's approval, still affected a loose, flowing tie, a
                            soft turn-down collar, brown corduroy suits as a rule, the coat cut with
                            a belt, shooting jacket fashion, a black iron ring of very curious
                            design upon one of his fingers, and a soft hat. His hands were very thin
                            and white, his skin pale. Frieda, rosy, as thoughtless as a butterfly,
                            charmingly clothed in a dress of blue linen, laughing, afraid of him
                            because of his reputation, attracted his attention at once. She was like
                            all the young, healthy, laughing girls he had ever known, delightful. He
                            wished he were single again that he might fall into a jesting
                            conversation with her. She seemed inclined to be friendly from the
                            first.
                        Angela being present, however, and Frieda's foster mother, it
                            was necessary for him to be circumspect and distant. The latter, Sylvia
                            and Angela, talked of art and listened to Angela's descriptions
                            of Eugene's eccentricities, idiosyncrasies and experiences,
                            which were a never-failing source of interest to the common run of
                            mortals whom they met. Eugene would sit by in a comfortable chair with a
                            weary, genial or indifferent look on his face as his mood happened to
                            be. To-night he was bored and a little indifferent in his manner. No one
                            here interested him save this girl, the beauty of whose face nourished
                            his secret dreams. He longed to have some such spirit of youth near him
                            always. Why could not women remain young?
                        While they were laughing and talking, Eugene picked up a copy of Howard
                            Pyle's "Knights of the Round Table" with its
                            warm heavy illustrations of the Arthurian heroes and heroines, and began
                            to study the stately and exaggerated characteristics  of the various characters. Sylvia had
                            purchased it for her seven-year old boy Jack, asleep upstairs, but
                            Frieda had read it in her girlhood a few years before. She had been
                            moving restlessly about, conscious of an interest in Eugene but not
                            knowing how to find an opportunity for conversation. His smile, which he
                            sometimes directed toward her, was to her entrancing.
                        "Oh, I read that," she said, when she saw him looking
                            at it. She had drifted to a position not far behind his chair and near
                            one of the windows. She pretended to be looking out at first, but now
                            began to talk to him. "I used to be crazy about every one of
                            the Knights and LadiesSir Launcelot, Sir Galahad, Sir Tristram, Sir
                            Gawaine, Queen Guinevere."
                        "Did you ever hear of Sir Bluff?" he asked teasingly,
                            "or Sir Stuff? or Sir Dub?" He looked at her with a
                            mocking light of humor in his eyes.
                        "Oh, there aren't such people," laughed
                            Frieda, surprised at the titles but tickled at the thought of them.
                        "Don't you let him mock you, Frieda," put in
                            Angela, who was pleased at the girl's gayety and glad that
                            Eugene had found someone in whom he could take an interest. She did not
                            fear the simple Western type of girl like Frieda and her own sister
                            Marietta. They were franker, more kindly, better intentioned than the
                            Eastern studio type, and besides they did not consider themselves
                            superior. She was playing the rle of the condescending leader here.
                        "Certainly there are," replied Eugene solemnly,
                            addressing Frieda. "They are the new Knights of the Round
                            Table. Haven't you ever heard of that book?"
                        "No, I haven't," answered Frieda gaily,
                            "and there isn't any such. You're just
                            teasing me."
                        "Teasing you? Why I wouldn't think of such a thing. And
                            there is such a book. It's published by Harper and Brothers and
                            is called 'The New Knights of the Round Table.' You
                            simply haven't heard of it, that's all."
                        Frieda was impressed. She didn't know whether to believe him or
                            not. She opened her eyes in a curiously inquiring girlish way which
                            appealed to Eugene strongly. He wished he were free to kiss her pretty,
                            red, thoughtlessly-parted lips. Angela herself was faintly doubtful as
                            to whether he was speaking of a real book or not.
                        "Sir Stuff is a very famous Knight," he went on,
                            "and so is Sir Bluff. They're inseparable companions
                            in the book. As for Sir Dub and Sir Hack, and the Lady
                            Dope"
                        
                        "Oh, hush, Eugene," called Angela gaily. "Just
                            listen to what he's telling Frieda," she remarked to
                            Miss Roth. "You mustn't mind him though. He's
                            always teasing someone. Why didn't you raise him better,
                            Sylvia?" she asked of Eugene's sister.
                        "Oh, don't ask me. We never could do anything with
                            Gene. I never knew he had much jesting in him until he came back this
                            time."
                        "They're very wonderful," they heard him
                            telling Frieda, "all fine rosy gentlemen and
                            ladies."
                        Frieda was impressed by this charming, good-natured man. His spirit was
                            evidently as youthful and gay as her own. She sat before him looking
                            into his smiling eyes while he teased her about this, that and the other
                            foible of youth. Who were her sweethearts? How did she make love? How
                            many boys lined up to see her come out of church on Sunday? He knew.
                        "I'll bet they look like a line of soldiers on dress
                            parade," he volunteered, "all with nice new ties and
                            clean pocket handkerchiefs and their shoes polished and"
                        "Oh, ha! ha!" laughed Frieda. The idea appealed to her
                            immensely. She started giggling and bantering with him and their
                            friendship was definitely sealed. She thought he was delightful.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XIV
                        
                            THE opportunity for further meetings seemed to come
                            about quite naturally. The Witla boathouse, where the family kept one
                            small boat, was at the foot of the Roth lawn, reached by a slightly used
                            lane which came down that side of the house; and also by a grape-arbor
                            which concealed the lake from the lower end of the house and made a
                            sheltered walk to the waterside, at the end of which was a
                            weather-beaten wooden bench. Eugene came here sometimes to get the boat
                            to row or to fish. On several occasions Angela had accompanied him, but
                            she did not care much for rowing or fishing and was perfectly willing
                            that he should go alone if he wanted to. There was also the friendship
                            of Miss Roth for Mr. and Mrs. Witla, which occasionally brought her and
                            Frieda to the house. And Frieda came from time to time to his studio in
                            the barn, to see him paint. Because of her youth and innocence Angela
                            thought very little of her presence there, which struck Eugene as
                            extremely fortunate. He was interested in her charms, anxious to make
                            love to her in a philandering sort of way, without intending to do her
                            any harm. It struck him as a little curious that he should find her
                            living so near the spot where once upon a winter's night he had
                            made love to Stella. There was something not unlike Stella about her,
                            though she was softer, more whole souledly genial and pliable to his
                            moods.
                        He saw her one day, when he went for his boat, standing out in the yard,
                            and she came down to the waterside to greet him.
                        "Well,", he said, smiling at her fresh morning
                            appearance, and addressing her with that easy familiarity with which he
                            knew how to take youth and life generally, "we're
                            looking as bright as a butterfly. I don't suppose we
                            butterflies have to work very hard, do we?"
                        "Oh, don't we," replied Frieda.
                            "That's all you know."
                        "Well, I don't know, that's true, but perhaps
                            one of these butterflies will tell me. Now you, for
                            instance."
                        Frieda smiled. She scarcely knew how to take him, but she thought he was
                            delightful. She hadn't the faintest conception either of the
                            depth and subtlety of his nature or of the genial, kindly inconstancy of
                            it. She only saw him as a handsome, smiling man, not at all too old,
                            witty, good-natured, here by the bright green waters of this lake,
                            pulling out his boat. He  looked so
                            cheerful to her, so care free. She had him indissolubly mixed in her
                            impressions with the freshness of the ground, the newness of the grass,
                            the brightness of the sky, the chirping of the birds and even the little
                            scintillating ripples on the water.
                        "Butterflies never work, that I know," he said,
                            refusing to take her seriously. "They just dance around in the
                            sunlight and have a good time. Did you ever talk to a butterfly about
                            that?"
                        Frieda merely smiled at him.
                        He pushed his boat into the water, holding it lightly by a rope, got down
                            a pair of oars from a rack and stepped into it. Then he stood there
                            looking at her.
                        "Have you lived in Alexandria long?" he asked.
                        "About eight years now."
                        "Do you like it?"
                        "Sometimes, not always. I wish we lived in Chicago.
                            O-oh!" she sniffed, turning up her pretty nose,
                            "isn't that lovely!" She was smelling some
                            odor of flowers blown from a garden.
                        "Yes, I get it too. Geraniums, isn't it?
                            They're blooming here, I see. A day like this sets me
                            crazy." He sat down in his boat and put his oars in place.
                        "Well, I have to go and try my luck for whales.
                            Wouldn't you like to go fishing?"
                        "I would, all right," said Frieda, "only aunt
                            wouldn't let me, I think. I'd just love to go.
                            It's lots of fun, catching fish."
                        "Yes, catching fish," laughed Eugene.
                            "Well, I'll bring you a nice little sharkone that
                            bites. Would you like that? Down in the Atlantic Ocean they have sharks
                            that bite and bark. They come up out of the water at night and bark like
                            a dog."
                        "O-o-oh, dear! how funny!" giggled Frieda, and Eugene
                            began slowly rowing his boat lakeward.
                        "Be sure you bring me a nice fish," she called.
                        "Be sure you're here to get it when I come
                            back," he answered.
                        He saw her with the lattice of spring leaves behind her, the old house
                            showing pleasantly on its rise of ground, some house-martens turning in
                            the morning sky.
                        "What a lovely girl," he thought.
                            "She's beautifulas fresh as a flower. That is the one
                            great thing in the worldthe beauty of girlhood."
                        He came back after a time expecting to find her, but her foster-mother
                            had sent her on an errand. He felt a keen sense of disappointment.
                        There were other meetings after this, once on a day when he  came back practically fishless and she
                            laughed at him; once when he saw her sunning her hair on the back porch
                            after she had washed it and she came down to stand under the trees near
                            the water, looking like a naiad. He wished then he could take her in his
                            arms, but he was a little uncertain of her and of himself. Once she came
                            to his studio in the barn to bring him a piece of left-over dough which
                            his mother had "turned" on the top of the stove.
                        "Eugene used to be crazy about that when he was a boy,"
                            his mother had remarked.
                        "Oh, let me take it to him," said Frieda gaily, gleeful
                            over the idea of the adventure.
                        "That's a good idea," said Angela innocently.
                            "Wait, I'll put it on this saucer."
                        Frieda took it and ran. She found Eugene staring oddly at his canvas, his
                            face curiously dark. When her head came above the loft floor his
                            expression changed immediately. His guileless, kindly smile
                            returned.
                        "Guess what," she said, pulling a little white apron
                            she had on over the dish.
                        "Strawberries." They were in season.
                        "Oh, no."
                        "Peaches and cream."
                        "Where would we get peaches now?"
                        "At the grocery store."
                        "I'll give you one more guess."
                        "Angel cake!" He was fond of that, and Angela
                            occasionally made it.
                        "Your guesses are all gone. You can't have
                            any."
                        He reached out his hand, but she drew back. He followed and she laughed.
                            "No, no, you can't have any now."
                        He caught her soft arm and drew her close to him. "Sure I
                            can't?"
                        Their faces were close together.
                        She looked into his eyes for a moment, then dropped her lashes.
                            Eugene's brain swirled with the sense of her beauty. It was the
                            old talisman. He covered her sweet lips with his own and she yielded
                            feverishly.
                        "There now, eat your dough," she exclaimed when he let
                            her go, pushing it shamefacedly toward him. She was flusteredso much so
                            that she failed to jest about it. "What would Mrs. Witla
                            think," she added, "if she could see us?"
                        Eugene paused solemnly and listened. He was afraid of Angela.
                        
                        "I've always liked this stuff, ever since I was a
                            boy," he said in an offhand way.
                        "So your mother said," replied Frieda, somewhat
                            recovered.
                        "Let me see what you're painting." She came
                            round to his side and he took her hand. "I'll have to
                            go now," she said wisely. "They'll be
                            expecting me back."
                        Eugene speculated on the intelligence of girlsat least on that of those
                            he liked. Somehow they were all wise under these circumstancescautious.
                            He could see that instinctively Frieda was prepared to protect him and
                            herself. She did not appear to be suffering from any shock from this
                            revelation. Rather she was inclined to make the best of it.
                        He folded her in his arms again.
                        "You're the angel cake and the strawberries and the
                            peaches and cream," he said.
                        "Don't!" she pleaded.
                            "Don't! I have to go now."
                        And when he released her she ran quickly down the stairs, giving him a
                            swift, parting smile.
                        So Frieda was added to the list of his conquests and he pondered over it
                            gravely. If Angela could have seen this scene, what a storm there would
                            have been! If she ever became conscious of what was going on, what a
                            period of wrath there would be! It would be terrible. After her recent
                            discovery of his letters he hated to think of that. Still this bliss of
                            caressing youthwas it not worth any price? To have a bright, joyous girl
                            of eighteen put her arms about youcould you risk too much for it? The
                            world said one life, one love. Could he accede to that? Could any one
                            woman satisfy him? Could Frieda if he had her? He did not know. He did
                            not care to think about it. Only this walking in a garden of flowershow
                            delicious it was. This having a rose to your lips!
                        Angela saw nothing of this attraction for some time. She was not prepared
                            yet to believe, poor little depender on the conventions as she
                            understood them, that the world was full of plots and counter-plots,
                            snares, pitfalls and gins. The way of the faithful and well-meaning
                            woman in marriage should be simple and easy. She should not be harassed
                            by uncertainty of affection, infelicities of temper, indifference or
                            infidelity. If she worked hard, as Angela was trying to do, trying to be
                            a good wife, saving, serving, making a sacrifice of her time and
                            services and moods and wishes for her husband's sake, why
                            shouldn't he do the same for her? She knew of no double
                            standard of virtue. If she had she would not have believed in it. Her
                            parents had raised her to see marriage in a different  light. Her father was faithful to her
                            mother. Eugene's father was faithful to his wifethat was
                            perfectly plain. Her brothers-in-law were faithful to her sisters,
                            Eugene's brothers-in-law were faithful to his sisters. Why
                            should not Eugene be faithful to her?
                        So far, of course, she had no evidence to the contrary. He probably was
                            faithful and would remain so. He had said so, but this pre-matrimonial
                            philandering of his looked very curious. It was an astonishing thing
                            that he could have deceived her so. She would never forget it. He was a
                            genius to be sure. The world was waiting to hear what he had to say. He
                            was a great man and should associate with great men, or, failing that,
                            should not want to associate with anyone at all. It was ridiculous for
                            him to be running around after silly women. She thought of this and
                            decided to do her best to prevent it. The seat of the mighty was in her
                            estimation the place for Eugene, with her in the foreground as a
                            faithful and conspicuous acolyte, swinging the censer of praise and
                            delight.
                        The days went on and various little meetingssome accidental, some
                            premeditatedtook place between Eugene and Frieda. There was one
                            afternoon when he was at his sister's and she came there to get
                            a pattern for her foster-mother from Sylvia. She lingered for over an
                            hour, during which time Eugene had opportunities to kiss her a dozen
                            times. The beauty of her eyes and her smile haunted him after she was
                            gone. There was another time when he saw her at dusk near his boathouse,
                            and kissed her in the shadow of the sheltering grape-arbor. In his own
                            home there were clandestine moments and in his studio, the barn loft,
                            for Frieda made occasion a few times to come to hima promise to make a
                            sketch of her being the excuse. Angela resented this, but she could not
                            prevent it. In the main Frieda exhibited that curious patience in love
                            which women so customarily exhibit and which a man can never understand.
                            She could wait for her own to come to herfor him to find her; while he,
                            with that curious avidness of the male in love, burned as a fed fire to
                            see her. He was jealous of the little innocent walks she took with boys
                            she knew. The fact that it was necessary for her to be away from him was
                            a great deprivation. The fact that he was married to Angela was a
                            horrible disaster. He would look at Angela, when she was with him,
                            preventing him from his freedom in love, with almost calculated hate in
                            his eyes. Why had he married her? As for Frieda, when she was near, and
                            he could not draw near her,  his eyes
                            followed her movements with a yearning, devouring glance. He was fairly
                            beside himself with anguish under the spell of her beauty. Frieda had no
                            notion of the consuming flame she had engendered.
                        It was a simple thing to walk home with her from the postofficequite
                            accidentally on several occasions. It was a fortuitous thing that Anna
                            Roth should invite Angela and himself, as well as his father and mother,
                            to her house to dinner. On one occasion when Frieda was visiting at the
                            Witla homestead, Angela thought Frieda stepped away from Eugene in a
                            curiously disturbed manner when she came into the parlor. She was not
                            sure. Frieda hung round him in a good-natured way most of the time when
                            various members of the family were present. She wondered if by any
                            chance he was making love to her, but she could not prove it. She tried
                            to watch them from then on, but Eugene was so subtle, Frieda so
                            circumspect, that she never did obtain any direct testimony.
                            Nevertheless, before they left Alexandria there was a weeping scene over
                            this, hysterical, tempestuous, in which she accused him of making love
                            to Frieda, he denying it stoutly.
                        "If it wasn't for your relatives'
                            sake," she declared, "I would accuse her to her face,
                            here before your eyes. She couldn't dare deny it."
                        "Oh, you're crazy," said Eugene.
                            "You're the most suspicious woman I ever knew. Good
                            Lord! Can't I look at a woman any more? This little girl!
                            Can't I even be nice to her?"
                        "Nice to her? Nice to her? I know how you're nice to
                            her. I can see! I can feel! Oh, God! Why can't you give me a
                            faithful husband!"
                        "Oh, cut it out!" demanded Eugene defiantly.
                            "You're always watching. I can't turn around
                            but you have your eye on me. I can tell. Well, you go ahead and watch.
                            That's all the good it will do you. I'll give you some
                            real reason for watching one of these days. You make me
                            tired!"
                        "Oh, hear how he talks to me," moaned Angela,
                            "and we're only married one year! Oh, Eugene, how can
                            you? Have you no pity, no shame? Here in your own home, too! Oh! oh!
                            oh!"
                        To Eugene such hysterics were maddening. He could not understand how
                            anyone should want or find it possible to carry on in this fashion. He
                            was lying "out of the whole cloth" about Frieda, but
                            Angela didn't know and he knew she didn't  know. All these tantrums were based on
                            suspicion. If she would do this on a mere suspicion, what would she not
                            do when she had a proved cause?
                        Still by her tears she as yet had the power of rousing his sympathies and
                            awakening his sense of shame. Her sorrow made him slightly ashamed of
                            his conduct or rather sorry, for the tougher nature was constantly
                            presenting itself. Her suspicions made the further pursuit of this love
                            quest practically impossible. Secretly he already cursed the day he had
                            married her, for Frieda's face was ever before him, a haunting
                            lure to love and desire. In this hour life looked terribly sad to him.
                            He couldn't help feeling that all the perfect things one might
                            seek or find were doomed to the searing breath of an inimical fate.
                            Ashes of rosesthat was all life had to offer. Dead sea fruit, turning to
                            ashes upon the lips. Oh, Frieda! Frieda! Oh, youth, youth! That there
                            should dance before him for evermore an unattainable desirethe holy
                            grail of beauty. Oh life, oh death! Which was really better, waking or
                            sleeping? If he could only have Frieda now it would be worth living, but
                            without her
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XV
                        
                            THE weakness of Eugene was that he was prone in each
                            of these new conquests to see for the time being the sum and substance
                            of bliss, to rise rapidly in the scale of uncontrollable, exaggerated
                            affection, until he felt that here and nowhere else, now and in this
                            particular form was ideal happiness. He had been in love with Stella,
                            with Margaret, with Ruby, with Angela, with Christina, and now with
                            Frieda, quite in this way, and it had taught him nothing as yet
                            concerning love except that it was utterly delightful. He wondered at
                            times how it was that the formation of a particular face could work this
                            spell. There was plain magic in the curl of a lock of hair, the
                            whiteness or roundness of a forehead, the shapeliness of a nose or ear,
                            the arched redness of full-blown petal lips. The cheek, the chin, the
                            eyein combination with these thingshow did they work this witchery? The
                            tragedies to which he laid himself open by yielding to these spellshe
                            never stopped to think of them.
                        It is a question whether the human will, of itself alone, ever has cured
                            or ever can cure any human weakness. Tendencies are subtle things. They
                            are involved in the chemistry of one's being, and those who
                            delve in the mysteries of biology frequently find that curious anomaly,
                            a form of minute animal life born to be the prey of another form of
                            animal lifechemically and physically attracted to its own disaster.
                            Thus, to quote Calkins, "some protozoa are apparently limited
                            to special kinds of food. The 'slipper-animal'
                            (Paramecium) and the 'bell-animal' (Vorticella) live
                            on certain kinds of bacteria, and many others, which live upon smaller
                            protozoa, seem to have a marked affinity for certain kinds. I have
                            watched one of these creatures (Actinobolus) lie perfectly quiet while
                            hundreds of bacteria and smaller kinds of protozoa bumped against it,
                            until a certain variety (Halteria grandinella) came near, when a minute
                            dart, or 'trochocyst,' attached to a relatively long
                            thread, was launched. The victim was invariably hit, and after a short
                            struggle was drawn in and devoured. The results of many experiments
                            indicate that the apparently willful selection in
                            these cases is the inevitable action of definite chemical and physical
                            laws which the individual organism can no more change than it can change
                            the course of gravitation. The  killing
                            dart mentioned above is called out by the particular kind of prey with
                            the irresistible attraction of an iron filing for a
                            magnen."
                        Eugene did not know of these curious biologic experiments at this time,
                            but he suspected that these attractions were deeper than human will. He
                            thought at times that he ought to resist his impulses. At other times he
                            asked himself why. If his treasure was in this and he lost it by
                            resistance, what had he? A sense of personal purity? It did not appeal
                            to him. The respect of his fellow-citizens? He believed that most of his
                            fellow-citizens were whited sepulchres. What good did their hypocritical
                            respect do him? Justice to others? Others were not concerned, or should
                            not be in the natural affinity which might manifest itself between two
                            people. That was for them to settle. Besides, there was very little
                            justice in the world. As for his wifewell, he had given her his word,
                            but he had not done so willingly. Might one swear eternal fealty and
                            abide by it when the very essence of nature was lack of fealty,
                            in-considerateness, destruction, change? A gloomy Hamlet to be sure,
                            asking "can honor set a leg?"a subtle Machiavelli
                            believing that might made right, sure that it was a matter of careful
                            planning, not ethics which brought success in this world, and yet one of
                            the poorest planners in it. An anarchistic manifestation of selfishness
                            surely; but his additional plea was that he did not make his own mind,
                            nor his emotions, nor anything else. And worst of all, he counselled
                            himself that he was not seizing anything ruthlessly. He was merely
                            accepting that which was thrust temptingly before him by fate.
                        Hypnotic spells of this character like contagion and fever have their
                            period of duration, their beginning, climax and end. It is written that
                            love is deathless, but this was not written of the body nor does it
                            concern the fevers of desire. The marriage of true minds to which
                            Shakespeare would admit no impediment is of a different texture and has
                            little sex in it. The friendship of Damon and Pythias was a marriage in
                            the best sense, though it concerned two men. The possibilities of
                            intellectual union between a man and a woman are quite the same. This is
                            deathless in so far as it reflects the spiritual ideals of the
                            universenot more so. All else is illusion of short duration and vanishes
                            in thin air.
                        When the time came for Eugene to leave Alexandria as he had originally
                            wanted to do, he was not at all anxious to depart; rather it was an
                            occasion of great suffering for him. He could not see any solution to
                            the problem which confronted  him in
                            connection with Frieda's love for him. As a matter of fact,
                            when he thought about it at all he was quite sure that she did not
                            understand or appreciate the nature of her affection for him or his for
                            her. It had no basis in responsibility. It was one of those things born
                            of thin airsunlight, bright waters, the reflection of a bright
                            roomthings which are intangible and insubstantial. Eugene was not one
                            who, if he thought anything at all about it, would persuade a girl to
                            immorality for the mere sake of indulgence. His feelings were invariably
                            compounded of finer things, love of companionship, love of beauty, a
                            variable sense of the consequences which must ensue, not so much to him
                            as to her, though he took himself into consideration. If she were not
                            already experienced and he had no method of protecting her, if he could
                            not take her as his wife or give her the advantages of his presence and
                            financial support, secretly or openly, if he could not keep all their
                            transactions a secret from the world, he was inclined to hesitate. He
                            did not want to do anything rashas much for her sake as for his. In this
                            case, the fact that he could not marry her, that he could not reasonably
                            run away with her, seeing that he was mentally sick and of uncertain
                            financial condition, the fact that he was surrounded by home conditions
                            which made it of the greatest importance that he should conduct himself
                            circumspectly, weighed greatly with him. Nevertheless a tragedy could
                            easily have resulted here. If Frieda had been of a headstrong,
                            unthinking nature; if Angela had been less watchful, morbid, appealing
                            in her mood; if the family and town conditions had been less weighty; if
                            Eugene had had health and ample means, he would probably have deserted
                            Angela, taken Frieda to some European cityhe dreamed of Paris in this
                            connectionand found himself confronted later by an angry father or a
                            growing realization that Frieda's personal charms were not the
                            sum and substance of his existence, or both. George Roth, for all he was
                            a traveling salesman, was a man of considerable determination. He might
                            readily have ended the life of his daughter's betryerart
                            reputation or no. He worshiped Frieda as the living image of his dead
                            wife, and at best he would have been heartbroken.
                        As it was, there was not much chance of this, for Eugene was not rash. He
                            was too philosophic. Conditions might have arisen in which he would have
                            shown the most foolhardy bravado, but not in his present state. There
                            was not sufficient anguish in his own existence to drive him to action.
                            He saw no clear way. So, in June, with Angela he took his departure  for Blackwood, pretending, to her,
                            outward indifference as to his departure, but inwardly feeling as though
                            his whole life were coming to nothing.
                        When he reached Blackwood he was now, naturally, disgusted with the whole
                            atmosphere of it. Frieda was not there. Alexandria, from having been the
                            most wearisome sidepool of aimless inactivity, had suddenly taken on all
                            the characteristics of paradise. The little lakes, the quiet streets,
                            the court house square, his sister's home, Frieda's
                            home, his own home, had been once more invested for him with the
                            radiance of romancethat intangible glory of feeling which can have no
                            existence outside the illusion of love. Frieda's face was
                            everywhere in it, her form, the look of her eyes. He could see nothing
                            there now save the glory of Frieda. It was as though the hard, weary
                            face of a barren landscape were suddenly bathed in the soft effulgence
                            of a midnight moon.
                        As for Blackwood, it was as lovely as ever but he could not see it. The
                            fact that his attitude had changed toward Angela for the time being made
                            all the difference. He did not really hate her did not really hate herhe
                            told really hate herhe told himself that. She was not any different from
                            that she had been, that was perfectly plain. The difference was in him.
                            He really could not be madly in love with two people at once. He had
                            entertained joint affections for Angela and Ruby, and Angela and
                            Christina, but those were not the dominating fevers which this seemed to
                            be. He could not for the time get the face of this girl out of his mind.
                            He was sorry for Angela at moments. Then, because of her insistence on
                            his presence with heron her being in his company, "following
                            him around" as he put it, he hated her. Dear Heaven! if he
                            could only be free without injuring her. If he could only get loose.
                            Think, at this moment he might be with Frieda walking in the sun
                            somewhere, rowing on the lake at Alexandria, holding her in his arms. He
                            would never forget how she looked the first morning she came into his
                            barn studio at homehow enticing she was the first night he saw her at
                            Sylvia's. What a rotten mess living was, anyhow. And so he sat
                            about in the hammock at the Blue homestead, or swung in a swing that old
                            Jotham had since put up for Marietta's beaux, or dreamed in a
                            chair in the shade of the house, reading. He was dreary and lonely with
                            just one ambition in the worldFrieda.
                        Meanwhile, as might be expected, his health was not getting any better.
                            Instead of curing himself of those purely carnal expressions of passion
                            which characterized his life with Angela, 
                            the latter went on unbroken. One would have thought that his passion for
                            Frieda would have interrupted this, but the presence of Angela, the
                            comparatively enforced contact, her insistence on his attentions, broke
                            down again and again the protecting barrier of distaste. Had he been
                            alone, he would have led a chaste life until some new and available
                            infatuation seized him. As it was there was no refuge either from
                            himself or Angela, and the at times almost nauseating relationship went
                            on and on.
                        Those of the Blue family, who were in the home or near it, were delighted
                            to see him. The fact that he had achieved such a great success, as the
                            papers had reported, with his first exhibition and had not lost ground
                            with the seconda very interesting letter had come from M. Charles saying
                            that the Paris pictures would be shown in Paris in Julygave them a great
                            estimate of him. Angela was a veritable queen in this home atmosphere;
                            and as for Eugene, he was given the privilege of all geniuses to do as
                            he pleased. On this occasion Eugene was the centre of interest, though
                            he appeared not to be, for his four solid Western brothers-in-law gave
                            no indication that they thought he was unusual. He was not their
                            typebanker, lawyer, grain merchant and real estate dealerbut they felt
                            proud of him just the same. He was different, and at the same time
                            natural, genial, modest, inclined to appear far more interested in their
                            affairs than he really was. He would listen by the hour to the details
                            of their affairs, political, financial, agricultural, social. The world
                            was a curious compost to Eugene and he was always anxious to find out
                            how other people lived. He loved a good story, and while he rarely told
                            one he made a splendid audience for those who did. His eyes would
                            sparkle and his whole face light with the joy of the humor he felt.
                        Through all thisthe attention he was receiving, the welcome he was made
                            to feel, the fact that his art interests were not yet dead (the Paris
                            exhibition being the expiring breath of his original burst of force),he
                            was nevertheless feeling the downward trend of his affairs most keenly.
                            His mind was not right. That at was surely true. His money affairs were
                            getting worse, not better, for while he could hope for a few sales yet
                            (the Paris pictures did not sell in New York) he was not certain that
                            this would be the case. This homeward trip had cost him two hundred of
                            his seventeen hundred dollars and there would be additional expenses if
                            he went to Chicago, as he planned in the fall. He could not live a
                            single year on fifteen hundred dollarsscarcely more, than six months,
                            and he could  not paint or illustrate
                            anything new in his present state. Additional sales of the pictures of
                            the two original exhibitions must be effected in a reasonable length of
                            time or he would find himself in hard straits.
                        Meanwhile, Angela, who had obtained such a high estimate of his future by
                            her experience in New York and Paris, was beginning to enjoy herself
                            again, for after all, in her judgment, she seemed to be able to manage
                            Eugene very well. He might have had some slight understanding with
                            Frieda Rothit couldn't have been much or she would have seen
                            it, she thoughtbut she had storms of feeling on her partnot always
                            premeditated-not always premeditatedseemed very essential. Eugene must
                            be made to understand that he was married now; that he could not look
                            upon or run after girls as he had in the old days. She was well aware
                            that he was considerably younger than she was in temperament, inclined
                            to be exceedingly boyish, and this was apt to cause trouble anywhere.
                            But if she watched over him, kept his attention fixed on her, everything
                            would come out all right. And then there were all these other delightful
                            qualitieshis looks, his genial manner, his reputation, his talent. What
                            a delightful thing it had become to announce herself as Mrs. Eugene
                            Witla and how those who knew about him sat up. Big people were his
                            friends, artists admired him, common, homely, everyday people thought he
                            was nice and considerate and able and very worth while. He was generally
                            liked everywhere. What more could one want?
                        Angela knew nothing of his real thoughts, for because of sympathy, a
                            secret sense of injustice toward her on his part, a vigorous, morbid
                            impression of the injustice of life as a whole, a desire to do things in
                            a kindly or at least a secret and not brutal way, he was led to pretend
                            at all times that he really cared for her; to pose as being comfortable
                            and happy; to lay all his moods to his inability to work. Angela, who
                            could not read him clearly, saw nothing of this. He was too subtle for
                            her understanding at times. She was living in a fool's
                            paradise; playing over a sleeping volcano.
                        He grew no better and by fall began to get the notion that he could do
                            better by living in Chicago. His health would come back to him there
                            perhaps. He was terribly tired of Black-wood. The long tree-shaded lawn
                            was nothing to him now. The little lake, the stream, the fields that he
                            had rejoiced in at first were to a great extent a commonplace. Old
                            Jotham was  a perpetual source of delight
                            to him with his kindly, stable, enduring attitude toward things and his
                            interesting comment on life, and Marietta entertained him with her wit,
                            her good nature, her intuitive understanding; but he could not be happy
                            just talking to everyday, normal, stable people, interesting and
                            worthwhile as they might be. The doing of simple things, living a simple
                            life, was just now becoming irritating. He must go to London, Parisdo
                            things. He couldn't loaf this way. It mattered little that he
                            could not work. He must try. This isolation was terrible.
                        There followed six months spent in Chicago in which he painted not one
                            picture that was satisfactory to him, that was not messed into
                            nothingness by changes and changes and changes. There were then three
                            months in the mountains of Tennessee because someone told him of a
                            wonderfully curative spring in a delightful valley where the spring came
                            as a dream of color and the expense of living was next to nothing. There
                            were four months of summer in southern Kentucky on a ridge where the air
                            was cool, and after that five months on the Gulf of Mexico, at Biloxi,
                            in Mississippi, because some comfortable people in Kentucky and
                            Tennessee told Angela of this delightful winter resort farther South.
                            All this time Eugene's money, the fifteen hundred dollars he
                            had when he left Blackwood, several sums of two hundred, one hundred and
                            fifty and two hundred and fifty, realized from pictures sold in New York
                            and Paris during the fall and winter following his Paris exhibition, and
                            two hundred which had come some months afterward from a fortuitous sale
                            by M. Charles of one of his old New York views, had been largely
                            dissipated. He still had five hundred dollars, but with no pictures
                            being sold and none painted he was in a bad way financially in so far as
                            the future was concerned. He could possibly return to Alexandria with
                            Angela and live cheaply there for another six months, but because of the
                            Frieda incident both he and she objected to it. Angela was afraid of
                            Frieda and was resolved that she would not go there so long as Frieda
                            was in the town, and Eugene was ashamed because of the light a return
                            would throw on his fading art prospects. Blackwood was out of the
                            question to him. They had lived on her parents long enough. If he did
                            not get better he must soon give up this art idea entirely, for he could
                            not live on trying to paint.
                        He began to think that he was possessedobsessed of a deviland that some
                            people were pursued by evil spirits, fated by stars, doomed from their
                            birth to failure or accident. How did the 
                            astrologer in New York know that he was to have four years of bad luck?
                            He had seen three of them already. Why did a man who read his palm in
                            Chicago once say that his hand showed two periods of disaster, just as
                            the New York astrologer had and that he was likely to alter the course
                            of his life radically in the middle portion of it? Were there any fixed
                            laws of being? Did any of the so-called naturalistic school of
                            philosophers and scientists whom he had read know anything at all? They
                            were always talking about the fixed laws of the universethe unalterable
                            laws of chemistry and physics. Why didn't chemistry or physics
                            throw some light on his peculiar physical condition, on the truthful
                            prediction of the astrologer, on the signs and portents which he had
                            come to observe for himself as fore-telling trouble or good fortune for
                            himself. If his left eye twitched he had observed of late he was going
                            to have a quarrel with someoneinvariably Angela. If he found a penny or
                            any money, he was going to get money; for every notification of a sale
                            of a picture with the accompanying check had been preceded by the
                            discovery of a coin somewhere: once a penny in State Street, Chicago, on
                            a rainy dayM. Charles wrote that a picture had been sold in Paris for
                            two hundred; once a three-cent piece of the old American issue in the
                            dust of a road in TennesseeM. Charles wrote that one of his old American
                            views had brought one hundred and fifty; once a penny in sands by the
                            Gulf in Biloxianother notification of a sale. So it went. He found that
                            when doors squeaked, people were apt to get sick in the houses where
                            they were; and a black dog howling in front of a house was a sure sign
                            of death. He had seen this with his own eyes, this sign which his mother
                            had once told him of as having been verified in her experience, in
                            connection with the case of a man who was sick in Biloxi. He was sick,
                            and a dog came running along the street and stopped in front of this
                            placea black dogand the man died. Eugene saw this with his own eyes,that
                            is, the dog and the sick man's death notice. The dog howled at
                            four o'clock in the afternoon and the next morning the man was
                            dead. He saw the crape on the door. Angela mocked at his superstition,
                            but he was convinced. "There are more things in heaven and
                            earth, Horatio, than are dreamt of in your philosophy."
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XVI
                        
                            EUGENE was reaching the point where he had no more
                            money and was compelled to think by what process he would continue to
                            make a living in the future. Worry and a hypochondriacal despair had
                            reduced his body to a comparatively gaunt condition. His eyes had a
                            nervous, apprehensive look. He would walk about speculating upon the
                            mysteries of nature, wondering how he was to get out of this, what was
                            to become of him, how soon, if ever, another picture would be sold,
                            when? Angela, from having fancied that his illness was a mere temporary
                            indisposition, had come to feel that he might be seriously affected for
                            some time. He was not sick physically: he could walk and eat and talk
                            vigorously enough, but he could not work and he was worrying, worrying,
                            worrying.
                        Angela was quite as well aware as Eugene that their finances were in a
                            bad way or threatening to become so, though he said nothing at all about
                            them. He was ashamed to confess at this day, after their very
                            conspicuous beginning in New York, that he was in fear of not doing
                            well. How sillyhe with all his ability! Surely he would get over this,
                            and soon.
                        Angela's economical upbringing and naturally saving instinct
                            stood her in good stead now, for she could market with the greatest
                            care, purchase to the best advantage, make every scrap and penny count.
                            She knew how to make her own clothes, as Eugene had found out when he
                            first visited Blackwood, and was good at designing hats. Although she
                            had thought in New York, when Eugene first began to make money, that now
                            she would indulge in tailor-made garments and the art of an excellent
                            dressmaker, she had never done so. With true frugality she had decided
                            to wait a little while, and then Eugene's health having failed
                            she had not the chance any more. Fearing the possible long duration of
                            this storm she had begun to mend and clean and press and make over
                            whatever seemed to require it. Even when Eugene suggested that she get
                            something new she would not do it. Her consideration for their futurethe
                            difficulty he might have in making a living, deterred her.
                        Eugene noted this, though he said nothing. He was not unaware of the fear
                            that she felt, the patience she exhibited, the sacrifice she made of her
                            own whims and desires to his, and he  was
                            not entirely unappreciative. It was becoming very apparent to him that
                            she had no life outside his ownno interests. She was his shadow, his
                            alter ego, his servant, his anything he wanted her to be.
                            "Little Pigtail" was one of his jesting pet names for
                            her because in the West as a boy they had always called anyone who ran
                            errands for others a pigtailer. In playing "one old
                            cat," if one wanted another to chase the struck balls he would
                            say: "You pig-tail for me, Willie, will you?" And
                            Angela was his "little pigtail."
                        There were no further grounds for jealousy during the time, almost two
                            years, in which they were wandering around together, for the reason that
                            she was always with him, almost his sole companion, and that they did
                            not stay long enough in any one place and under sufficiently free social
                            conditions to permit him to form those intimacies which might have
                            resulted disastrously. Some girls did take his eyethe exceptional in
                            youth and physical perfection were always doing that, but he had no
                            chance or very little of meeting them socially. They were not living
                            with people they knew, were not introduced in the local social worlds,
                            which they visited. Eugene could only look at these maidens whom he
                            chanced to spy from time to time, and wish that he might know them
                            better. It was hard to be tied down to a conventional acceptance of
                            matrimonyto pretend that he was interested in beauty only in a
                            sociological way. He had to do it before Angela though (and all
                            conventional people for that matter), for she objected strenuously to
                            the least interest he might manifest in any particular woman. All his
                            remarks had to be general and guarded in their character. At the least
                            show of feeling or admiration Angela would begin to criticize his choice
                            and to show him wherein his admiration was ill-founded. If he were
                            especially interested she would attempt to tear his latest ideal to
                            pieces. She had no mercy, and he could see plainly enough on what her
                            criticism was based. It made him smile but he said nothing. He even
                            admired her for her heroic efforts to hold her own, though every victory
                            she seemed to win served only to strengthen the bars of his own
                            cage.
                        It was during this time that he could not help learning and appreciating
                            just how eager, patient and genuine was her regard for his material
                            welfare. To her he was obviously the greatest man in the world, a great
                            painter, a great thinker, a great lover, a great personality every way.
                            It didn't make so much difference to her at this time that he
                            wasn't making any money. He would sometime, surely, and
                            wasn't she getting it all in fame anyhow, now? Why, to be Mrs.
                            Eugene Witla, after  what she had seen of
                            him in New York and Paris, what more could she want? Wasn't it
                            all right for her to rake and scrape now, to make her own clothes and
                            hats, save, mend, press and patch? He would come out of all this silly
                            feeling about other women once he became a little older, and then he
                            would be all right. Anyhow he appeared to love her now; and that was
                            something. Because he was lonely, fearsome, uncertain of himself,
                            uncertain of the future, he welcomed these unsparing attentions on her
                            part, and this deceived her. Who else would give them to him, he
                            thought; who else would be so faithful in times like these? He almost
                            came to believe that he could love her again, be faithful to her, if he
                            could keep out of the range of these other enticing personalities. If
                            only he could stamp out this eager desire for other women, their praise
                            and their beauty!
                        But this was more because he was sick and lonely than anything else. If
                            he had been restored to health then and there, if prosperity had
                            descended on him as he so eagerly dreamed, it would have been the same
                            as ever. He was as subtle as nature itself; as changeable as a
                            chameleon. But two things were significant and realtwo things to which
                            he was as true and unvarying as the needle to the polehis love of the
                            beauty of life which was coupled with his desire to express it in color,
                            and his love of beauty in the form of the face of a woman, or rather
                            that of a girl of eighteen. That blossoming of life in womanhood at
                            eighteen!there was no other thing under the sun like it to him. It was
                            like the budding of the trees in spring; the blossoming of flowers in
                            the early morning; the odor of roses and dew, the color of bright waters
                            and clear jewels. He could not be faithless to that. He could not get
                            away from it. It haunted him like a joyous vision, and the fact that the
                            charms of Stella and Ruby and Angela and Christina and Frieda in whom it
                            had been partially or wholly shadowed forth at one time or another had
                            come and gone, made little difference. It remained clear and demanding.
                            He could not escape itthe thought; he could not deny it. He was haunted
                            by this, day after day, and hour after hour; and when he said to himself
                            that he was a fool, and that it would lure him as a
                            will-o'-the-wisp to his destruction and that he could find no
                            profit in it ultimately, still it would not down. The beauty of youth;
                            the beauty of eighteen! To him life without it was a joke, a shabby
                            scramble, a work-horse job, with only silly material details like
                            furniture and houses and steel cars and stores all involved in a
                            struggle for what? To make a habitation for more shabby humanity? Never!
                            To make a habitation for beauty? Certainly! What beauty? The beauty  of old age?How silly! The beauty of
                            middle age? Nonsense! The beauty of maturity? No! The beauty of youth?
                            Yes. The beauty of eighteen. No more and no less. That was the standard,
                            and the history of the world proved it. Art, literature, romance,
                            history, poetryif they did not turn on this and the lure of this and the
                            wars and sins because of this, what did they turn on? He was for beauty.
                            The history of the world justified him. Who could deny it?
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XVII
                        
                            FROM Biloxi, because of the approach of summer when it
                            would be unbearably warm there, and because his funds were so low that
                            it was necessary to make a decisive move of some kind whether it led to
                            complete disaster or not, he decided to return to New York. In storage
                            with Kellners (M. Charles had kindly volunteered to take care of them
                            for him) were a number of the pictures left over from the original show,
                            and nearly all the paintings of the Paris exhibition. The latter had not
                            sold well. Eugene's idea was that he could slip into New York
                            quietly, take a room in some side street or in Jersey City or Brooklyn
                            where he would not be seen, have the pictures in the possession of M.
                            Charles returned to him, and see if he could not get some of the minor
                            art dealers or speculators of whom he had heard to come and look at them
                            and buy them outright. Failing that, he might take them himself, one by
                            one, to different dealers here and there and dispose of them. He
                            remembered now that Eberhard Zang had, through Norma Whitmore, asked him
                            to come and see him. He fancied that, as Kellners had been so
                            interested, and the newspaper critics had spoken of him so kindly the
                            smaller dealers would be eager to take up with him. Surely they would
                            buy this material. It was exceptionalvery. Why not?
                        Eugene forgot or did not know the metaphysical side of prosperity and
                            failure. He did not realize that "as a man thinketh so is
                            he," and so also is the estimate of the whole world at the time
                            he is thinking of himself thusnot as he is but as he thinks he is. The
                            sense of it is abroadby what processes we know not, but so it is.
                        Eugene's mental state, so depressed, so helpless, so fearsomea
                            rudderless boat in the dark, transmitted itself as an impression, a
                            wireless message to all those who knew him or knew of him. His
                            breakdown, which had first astonished M. Charles, depressed and then
                            weakened the latter's interest in him. Like all other capable,
                            successful men in the commercial world M. Charles was for strong menmen
                            in the heyday of their success, the zenith of their ability. The least
                            variation from this standard of force and interest was noticeable to
                            him. If a man was going to failgoing to get sick and lose his interest
                            in life or have  his viewpoint affected,
                            it might be very sad, but there was just one thing to do under such
                            circumstancesget away from him. Failures of any kind were dangerous
                            things to countenance. One must not have anything to do with them. They
                            were very unprofitable. Such people as Temple Boyle and Vincent Beers,
                            who had been his instructors in the past and who had heard of him in
                            Chicago at the time of his success, Luke Severas, William McConnell,
                            Oren Benedict, Hudson Dula, and others wondered what had become of him.
                            Why did he not paint any more? He was never seen in the New York haunts
                            of art! It was rumored at the time of the Paris exhibition that he was
                            going to London to do a similar group of views, but the London
                            exhibition never came off. He had told Smite and MacHugh the spring he
                            left that he might do Chicago next, but that came to nothing. There was
                            no evidence of it. There were rumors that he was very rich, that his art
                            had failed him, that he had lost his mind even and so
                            the art world that knew him and was so interested in him no longer cared
                            very much. It was too bad butso thought the rival artiststhere was one
                            less difficult star to contend with. As for his friends, they were
                            sorry, but such was life. He might recover. If not,well.
                        As time went on, one year, another year, another year, the strangeness of
                            his suddenly brilliant burst and disappearance became to the talented in
                            this field a form of classic memory. He was a man of such promise! Why
                            did he not go on painting? There was an occasional mention in
                            conversation or in print, but Eugene to all intents and purposes was
                            dead.
                        When he came to New York it was after his capital had been reduced to
                            three hundred dollars and he had given Angela one hundred and
                            twenty-five of this to take her back to Blackwood and keep her there
                            until he could make such arrangements as would permit her to join him.
                            After a long discussion they had finally agreed that this would be best,
                            for, seeing that he could neither paint nor illustrate, there was no
                            certainty as to what he would do. To come here on so little money with
                            her was not advisable. She had her home where she was welcome to stay
                            for a while anyhow. Meanwhile he figured he could weather any storm
                            alone.
                        The appearance of the metropolis, after somewhat over two years of
                            absence during which he had wandered everywhere, was most impressive to
                            Eugene. It was a relief after the mountains of Kentucky and Tennessee
                            and the loneliness of the Biloxi coast, to get back to this swarming
                            city where millions were hurrying to and fro, and where one's
                            misery as well as one's prosperity  was apparently swallowed up in an inconceivable mass of life. A
                            subway was being built. The automobile, which only a few years before
                            was having a vague, uncertain beginning, was now attaining a tremendous
                            vogue. Magnificent cars of new design were everywhere. From the
                            ferry-house in Jersey City he could see notable changes in the skyline,
                            and a single walk across Twenty-third Street and up Seventh Avenue
                            showed him a changing worldgreat hotels, great apartment houses, a
                            tremendous crush of vainglorious life which was moulding the city to its
                            desires. It depressed him greatly, for he had always hoped to be an
                            integral part of this magnificence and display and now he was notmight
                            never be again.
                        It was still raw and cold, for the spring was just beginning to break,
                            and Eugene was compelled to buy a light overcoat, his own imperishable
                            great coat having been left behind, and he had no other fit to wear.
                            Appearances, he thought, demanded this. He had spent forty of his
                            closely-guarded one hundred and seventy-five dollars coming from Biloxi
                            to New York, and now an additional fifteen was required for this coat,
                            leaving him one hundred and twenty-five dollars with which to begin his
                            career anew. He was greatly worried as to the outcome, but curiously
                            also he had an abiding subconscious feeling that it could not be utterly
                            destructive to him.
                        He rented a cheap room in a semi-respectable neighborhood in West
                            Twenty-fourth Street near Eleventh Avenue solely because
                                he wanted to keep out of the run of intellectual
                            life and hide until he could get on his feet. It was an old and shabby
                            residence in an old and shabby red brick neighborhood such as he had
                            drawn in one of his views, but it was not utterly bad. The people were
                            poor but fairly intellectual. He chose this particular neighborhood with
                            all its poverty because it was near the North River where the great
                            river traffic could be seen, and where, because of some open lots in
                            which were stored wagons, his one single west window gave him a view of
                            all this life. About the corner in Twenty-third Street, in another
                            somewhat decayed residence, was a moderate priced restaurant and
                            boarding house. Here he could get a meal for twenty-five cents. He cared
                            nothing for the life that was about him. It was cheap, poor, from a
                            money point of view, dingy, but he would not be here forever he hoped.
                            These people did not know him. Besides the number 552 West 24th Street
                            did not sound bad. It might be one of the old neighborhoods with which
                            New York was dotted, and which artists were inclined to find and
                            occupy.
                        After he had secured this room from a semi-respectable Irish  landlady, a dock weigher's wife,
                            he decided to call upon M. Charles. He knew that he looked quite
                            respectable as yet, despite his poverty and decline. His clothes were
                            good, his overcoat new, his manner brisk and determined. But what he
                            could not see was that his face in its thin sallowness, and his eyes
                            with their semi-feverish lustre bespoke a mind that was harassed by
                            trouble of some kind. He stood outside the office of Kellner and Son in
                            Fifth Avenuea half block from the door, wondering whether he should go
                            in, and just what he should say. He had written to M. Charles from time
                            to time that his health was bad and that he couldn't workalways
                            that he hoped to be better soon. He had always hoped that a reply would
                            come that another of his pictures had been sold. One year had gone and
                            then two, and now a third was under way and still he was not any better.
                            M. Charles would look at him searchingly. He would have to bear his gaze
                            unflinchingly. In his present nervous state this was difficult and yet
                            he was not without a kind of defiance even now. He would force himself
                            back into favor with life sometime.
                        He finally mustered up his courage and entered and M. Charles greeted him
                            warmly.
                        "This certainly is good,to see you again. I had almost given up
                            hope that you would ever come back to New York. How is your health now?
                            And how is Mrs. Witla? It doesn't seem as though it had been
                            three years. You're looking excellent. And how is painting
                            going now? Getting to the point where you can do something
                            again?"
                        Eugene felt for the moment as though M. Charles believed him to be in
                            excellent condition, whereas that shrewd observer of men was wondering
                            what could have worked so great a change. Eugene appeared to be eight
                            years older. There were marked wrinkles between his eyes and an air of
                            lassitude and weariness. He thought to himself, "Why, this man
                            may possibly be done for artistically. Something has gone from him which
                            I noted the first time I met him: that fire and intense enthusiasm which
                            radiated force after the fashion of an arclight. Now he seems to be
                            seeking to draw something in,to save himself from drowning as it were.
                            He is making a voiceless appeal for consideration. What a
                            pity!"
                        The worst of it all was that in his estimation nothing could be done in
                            such a case. You couldn't do anything for an artist who could
                            do nothing for himself. His art was gone. The sanest thing for him to do
                            would be to quit trying, go at some other form of labor and forget all
                            about it. It might be that he  would
                            recover, but it was a question. Nervous breakdowns were not infrequently
                            permanent.
                        Eugene noticed something of this in his manner. He couldn't tell
                            exactly what it was, but M. Charles seemed more than ordinarily
                            preoccupied, careful and distant. He wasn't exactly chilly in
                            his manner, but reserved, as though he were afraid he might be asked to
                            do something which he could not very well do.
                        "I noticed that the Paris scenes did not do very well either
                            here or in Paris," observed Eugene with an air of nonchalance,
                            as though it were a matter of small importance, at the same time hoping
                            that he would have some favorable word. "I had the idea that
                            they would take better than they did. Still I don't suppose I
                            ought to expect everything to sell. The New York ones did all
                            right."
                        "They did very well indeed, much better than I expected. I
                            didn't think as many would be sold as were. They were very new
                            and considerably outside the lines of current interest. The Paris
                            pictures, on the other hand, were foreign to Americans in the wrong
                            sense. By that I mean they weren't to be included in that genre
                            art which comes from abroad, but is not based on any locality and is
                            universal in its appealthematically speaking. Your Paris pictures were,
                            of course, pictures in the best sense to those who see art as color and
                            composition and idea, but to the ordinary lay mind they were, I take it,
                            merely Paris scenes. You get what I mean. In that sense they were
                            foreign, and Paris has been done illustratively anyhow. You might have
                            done better with London or Chicago. Still you have every reason to
                            congratulate yourself. Your work made a distinct impression both here
                            and in France. When you feel able to return to it I have no doubt you
                            will find that time has done you no harm."
                        He tried to be polite and entertaining, but he was glad when Eugene went
                            away again.
                        The latter turned out into the street disconsolate. He could see how
                            things were. He was down and out for the present and would have to
                            wait.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XVIII
                        THE next thing was to see what could be done with the other art dealers
                            and the paintings that were left. There were quite a number of them. If
                            he could get any reasonable price at all he ought to be able to live
                            quite awhilelong enough anyhow to get on his feet again. When they came
                            to his quiet room and were unpacked by him in a rather shamefaced and
                            disturbed manner and distributed about, they seemed wonderful things.
                            Why, if the critics had raved over them and M. Charles had thought they
                            were so fine, could they not be sold? Art dealers would surely buy them!
                            Still, now that he was on the ground again and could see the distinctive
                            art shops from the sidewalks his courage failed him. They were not
                            running after pictures. Exceptional as he might be, there were artists
                            in plentygood ones. He could not run to other well known art dealers
                            very well for his work had become identified with the house of Kellner
                            and Son. Some of the small dealers might buy them but they would not buy
                            them allprobably one or two at the most, and that at a sacrifice. What a
                            pass to come to!he, Eugene Witla, who three years before had been in the
                            heyday of his approaching prosperity, wondering as he stood in the room
                            of a gloomy side-street house how he was going to raise money to live
                            through the summer, and how he was going to sell the paintings which had
                            seemed the substance of his fortune but two years before. He decided
                            that he would ask several of the middle class dealers whether they would
                            not come and look at what he had to show. To a number of the smaller
                            dealers in Fourth, Sixth, Eighth Avenues and elsewhere he would offer to
                            sell several outright when necessity pinched. Still he had to raise
                            money soon. Angela could not be left at Blackwood indefinitely.
                        He went to Jacob Bergman, Henry LaRue, Pottle Frres and asked if they
                            would be interested to see what he had. Henry Bergman, who was his own
                            manager, recalled his name at once. He had seen the exhibition but was
                            not eager. He asked curiously how the pictures of the first and second
                            exhibitions had sold, how many there were of them, what prices they
                            brought. Eugene told him.
                        
                        "You might bring one or two here and leave them on sale. You
                            know how that is. Someone might take a fancy to them. You never can
                            tell."
                        He explained that his commission was twenty-five per cent. and that he
                            would report when a sale was made. He was not interested to come and see
                            them. Eugene could select any two pictures he pleased. It was the same
                            with Henry LaRue and Pottle Frres, though the latter had never heard of
                            him. They asked him to show them one of his pictures. Eugene's
                            pride was touched the least bit by this lack of knowledge on their part,
                            though seeing how things were going with him he felt as though he might
                            expect as much and more.
                        Other art dealers he did not care to trust with his paintings on sale,
                            and he was now ashamed to start carrying them about to the magazines,
                            where at least one hundred and twenty-five to one hundred and fifty per
                            picture might be expected for them, if they were sold at all. He did not
                            want the magazine art world to think that he had come to this. His best
                            friend was Hudson Dula, and he might no longer be Art Director of Truth. As a matter of fact Dula was no longer there.
                            Then there were Jan Jansen and several others, but they were no doubt
                            thinking of him now as a successful painter. It seemed as though his
                            natural pride were building insurmountable barriers for him. How was he
                            to live if he could not do this and could not paint? He decided on
                            trying the small art dealers with a single picture, offering to sell it
                            outright. They might not recognize him and so might buy it direct. He
                            could accept, in such cases, without much shock to his pride, anything
                            which they might offer, if it were not too little.
                        He tried this one bright morning in May, and though it was not without
                            result it spoiled the beautiful day for him. He took one picture, a New
                            York scene, and carried it to a third rate art dealer whose place he had
                            seen in upper Sixth Avenue, and without saying anything about himself
                            asked if he would like to buy it. The proprietor, a small, dark
                            individual of Semitic extraction, looked at him curiously and at his
                            picture. He could tell from a single look that Eugene was in trouble,
                            that he needed money and that he was anxious to sell his picture. He
                            thought of course that he would take anything for it and he was not sure
                            that he wanted the picture at that. It was not very popular in theme, a
                            view of a famous Sixth Avenue restaurant showing behind the track of the
                            L road, with a driving rain pouring in between the interstices of light.
                            Years after this picture was picked up by a collector from Kansas City
                            at an old furniture  sale and hung among
                            his gems, but this morning its merits were not very much in
                            evidence.
                        "I see that you occasionally exhibit a painting in your window
                            for sale. Do you buy originals?"
                        "Now and again," said the man
                            indifferently"not often. What have you?"
                        "I have an oil here that I painted not so long ago. I
                            occasionally do these things. I thought maybe you would like to buy
                            it."
                        The proprietor stood by indifferently while Eugene untied the string,
                            took off the paper and stood the picture up for inspection. It was
                            striking enough in its way but it did not appeal to him as being
                            popular. "I don't think it's anything that I
                            could sell here," he remarked, shrugging his shoulders.
                            "It's good, but we don't have much call for
                            pictures of any kind. If it were a straight landscape or a marine or a
                            figure of some kind. Figures sell best. But thisI doubt if I could get
                            rid of it. You might leave it on sale if you want to. Somebody might
                            like it. I don't think I'd care to buy
                            it."
                        "I don't care to leave it on sale," replied
                            Eugene irritably. Leave one of his pictures in a cheap side-street art
                            storeand that on sale! He would not. He wanted to say something cutting
                            in reply but he curbed his welling wrath to ask,
                        "How much do you think it would be worth if you did want
                            it?"
                        "Oh," replied the proprietor, pursing his lips
                            reflectively, "not more than ten dollars. We can't ask
                            much for anything we have on view here. The Fifth Avenue stores take all
                            the good trade."
                        Eugene winced. Ten dollars! Why, what a ridiculous sum! What was the use
                            of coming to a place like this anyhow? He could do better dealing with
                            the art directors or the better stores. But where were they? Whom could
                            he deal with? Where were there any stores much better than this outside
                            the large ones which he had already canvassed. He had better keep his
                            pictures and go to work now at something else. He only had thirtyfive of
                            them all told and at this rate he would have just three hundred and
                            fifty dollars when they were all gone. What good would that do him? His
                            mood and this preliminary experience convinced him that they could not
                            be sold for any much greater sum. Fifteen dollars or less would probably
                            be offered and he would be no better off at the end. His pictures would
                            be gone and he would have nothing. He ought to get something to do and
                            save his pictures. But what?
                        
                        To a man in Eugene's positionhe was now thirty-one years of age,
                            with no training outside what he had acquired in developing his artistic
                            judgment and abilitythis proposition of finding something else which he
                            could do was very difficult. His mental sickness was, of course, the
                            first great bar. It made him appear nervous and discouraged and so more
                            or less objectionable to anyone who was looking for vigorous healthy
                            manhood in the shape of an employee. In the next place, his look and
                            manner had become decidedly that of the artistrefined, retiring, subtle.
                            He also had an air at times of finicky standoffishness, particularly in
                            the presence of those who appeared to him commonplace or who by their
                            look or manner appeared to be attempting to set themselves over him. In
                            the last place, he could think of nothing that he really wanted to dothe
                            idea that his art ability would come back to him or that it ought to
                            serve him in this crisis, haunting him all the time. Once he had thought
                            he might like to be an art director; he was convinced that he would be a
                            good one. And another time he had thought he would like to write, but
                            that was long ago. He had never written anything since the Chicago
                            newspaper specials, and several efforts at concentrating his mind for
                            this quickly proved to him that writing was not for him now. It was hard
                            for him to formulate an intelligent consecutive-idea'd letter
                            to Angela. He harked back to his old Chicago days and remembering that
                            he had been a collector and a driver of a laundry wagon, he decided that
                            he might do something of that sort. Getting a position as a street-car
                            conductor or a drygoods clerk appealed to him as possibilities. The
                            necessity of doing something within regular hours and in a routine way
                            appealed to him as having curative properties. How should he get such a
                            thing?
                        If it had not been for the bedeviled state of his mind this would not
                            have been such a difficult matter, for he was physically active enough
                            to hold any ordinary position. He might have appealed frankly and simply
                            to M. Charles or Isaac Wertheim and through influence obtained something
                            which would his idea him over, but he was too sensitive to begin with
                            and his present weakness made him all the more fearful and retiring. He
                            had but one desire when he thought of doing anything outside his
                            creative gift, and that was to slink away from the gaze of men. How
                            could he, with his appearance, his reputation, his tastes and
                            refinement, hobnob with conductors, drygoods clerks, railroad hands or
                            drivers? It wasn't possiblehe hadn't the strength.
                            Besides all that was a thing of the past, or he thought it was. He had
                            put it behind him in his art student days. Now  to have to get out and look for a job! How could he? He
                            walked the streets for days and days, coming back to his room to see if
                            by any chance he could paint yet, writing long, rambling, emotional
                            letters to Angela. It was pitiful. In fits of gloom he would take out an
                            occasional picture and sell it, parting with it for ten or fifteen
                            dollars after he had carried it sometimes for miles. His one refuge was
                            in walking, for somehow he could not walk and feel very, very bad. The
                            beauty of nature, the activity of people entertained and diverted his
                            mind. He would come back to his room some evenings feeling as though a
                            great change had come over him, as though he were going to do better
                            now; but this did not last long. A little while and he would be back in
                            his old mood again. He spent three months this way, drifting, before he
                            realized that he must do somethingthat fall and winter would be coming
                            on again in a little while and he would have nothing at all.
                        In his desperation he first attempted to get an art directorship, but two
                            or three interviews with publishers of magazines proved to him pretty
                            quickly that positions of this character were not handed out to the
                            inexperienced. It required an apprenticeship, just as anything else did,
                            and those who had positions in this field elsewhere had the first call.
                            His name or appearance did not appear to strike any of these gentlemen
                            as either familiar or important in any way. They had heard of him as an
                            illustrator and a painter, but his present appearance indicated that
                            this was a refuge in ill health which he was seeking, not a vigorous,
                            constructive position, and so they would have none of him. He next tried
                            at three of the principal publishing houses, but they did not require
                            anyone in that capacity. Truth to tell he knew very little of the
                            details and responsibilities of the position, though he thought he did.
                            After that there was nothing save drygoods stores, street-car
                            registration offices, the employment offices of the great railroads and
                            factories. He looked at sugar refineries, tobacco factories, express
                            offices, railroad freight offices, wondering whether in any of these it
                            would be possible for him to obtain a position which would give him a
                            salary of ten dollars a week. If he could get that, and any of the
                            pictures now on show with Jacob Bergman, Henry La Rue and Pottle Frres
                            should be sold, he could get along. He might even live on this with
                            Angela if he could sell an occasional picture for ten or fifteen
                            dollars. But he was paying seven dollars a week for nothing save food
                            and room, and scarcely managing to cling to the one hundred dollars
                            which had remained of his original traveling fund after he had paid all
                            his opening expenses here in New  York. He
                            was afraid to part with all his pictures in this way for fear he would
                            be sorry for it after a while.
                        Work is hard to get under the most favorable conditions of health and
                            youth and ambition, and the difficulties of obtaining it under
                            unfavorable ones need not be insisted on. Imagine if you can the crowds
                            of men, forty, fifty, one hundred strong, that wait at the door of every
                            drygoods employment office, every street-car registration bureau, on the
                            special days set aside for considering applications, at every factory,
                            shop or office where an advertisement calling for a certain type of man
                            or woman was inserted in the newspapers. On a few occasions that Eugene
                            tried or attempted to try, he found himself preceded by peculiar groups
                            of individuals who eyed him curiously as he approached, wondering, as he
                            thought, whether a man of his type could be coming to apply for a job.
                            They seemed radically different from himself to his mind, men with
                            little education and a grim consciousness of the difficulties of life;
                            young men, vapid looking men, shabby, stale, discouraged typesmen who,
                            like himself, looked as though they had seen something very much better,
                            and men who looked as though they had seen, things a great deal worse.
                            The evidence which frightened him was the presence of a group of bright,
                            healthy, eager looking boys of nineteen, twenty, twenty-one and
                            twenty-two who, like himself when he first went to Chicago years before,
                            were everywhere he went. When he drew near he invariably found it
                            impossible to indicate in any way that he was looking for anything. He
                            couldn't. His courage failed him; he felt that he looked too
                            superior; self-consciousness and shame overcame him.
                        He learned now that men rose as early as four o'clock in the
                            morning to buy a newspaper and ran quickly to the address mentioned in
                            order to get the place at the head of the line, thus getting the first
                            consideration as an applicant. He learned that some other men, such as
                            waiters, cooks, hotel employees and so on, frequently stayed up all
                            night in order to buy a paper at two in the morning, winter or summer,
                            rain or snow, heat or cold, and hurry to the promising addresses they
                            might find. He learned that the crowds of applicants were apt to become
                            surly or sarcastic or contentious as their individual chances were
                            jeopardized by ever-increasing numbers. And all this was going on all
                            the time, in winter or summer, heat or cold, rain or snow. Pretending
                            interest as a spectator, he would sometimes stand and watch, hearing the
                            ribald jests, the slurs cast upon life, fortune, individuals in
                            particular and in general by those who were wearily or hopelessly
                            waiting. It was a horrible picture to him in his  present condition. It was like the grinding of the
                            millstones, upper and nether. These were the chaff. He was a part of the
                            chaff at present, or in danger of becoming so. Life was winnowing him
                            out. He might go down, down, and there might never be an opportunity for
                            him to rise any more.
                        Few, if any of us, understand thoroughly the nature of the unconscious
                            stratification which takes place in life, the layers and types and
                            classes into which it assorts itself and the barriers which these offer
                            to a free migration of individuals from one class to another. We take on
                            so naturally the material habiliments of our temperaments, necessities
                            and opportunities. Priests, doctors, lawyers, merchants, appear to be
                            born with their particular mental attitude and likewise the clerk, the
                            ditch-digger, the janitor. They have their codes, their guilds and their
                            class feelings. And while they may be spiritually closely related, they
                            are physically far apart. Eugene, after hunting for a place for a month,
                            knew a great deal more about this stratification than he had ever
                            dreamed of knowing. He found that he was naturally barred by temperament
                            from some things, from others by strength and weight, or rather the lack
                            of them; from others, by inexperience; from others, by age; and so on.
                            And those who were different from him in any or all of these respects
                            were inclined to look at him askance. "You are not as we
                            are," their eyes seemed to say; "why do you come
                            here?"
                        One day he approached a gang of men who were waiting outside a car barn
                            and sought to find out where the registration office was. He did not lay
                            off his natural manner of superioritycould not, but asked a man near him
                            if he knew. It had taken all his courage to do this.
                        "He wouldn't be after lookin' fer a place as a
                            conductor now, would he?" he heard someone say within his
                            hearing. For some reason this remark took all his courage away. He went
                            up the wooden stairs to the little office where the application blanks
                            were handed out, but did not even have the courage to apply for one. He
                            pretended to be looking for someone and went out again. Later, before a
                            drygoods superintendent's office, he heard a youth remark,
                            "Look what wants to be a clerk." It froze him.
                        It is a question how long this aimless, nervous wandering would have
                            continued if it had not been for the accidental recollection of an
                            experience which a fellow artist once related to him of a writer who had
                            found himself nervously depressed and who, by application to the
                            president of a railroad, had secured as a courtesy to the profession
                            which he represented so  ably a position
                            as an apprentice in a surveying corps, being given transportation to a
                            distant section of the country and employed at a laborer's
                            wages until he was well. Eugene now thought of this as quite an idea for
                            himself. Why it had not occurred to him before he did not know. He could
                            apply as an artisthis appearance would bear him out, and being able to
                            speak from the vantage point of personal ability temporarily embarrassed
                            by ill health, his chances of getting something would be so much better.
                            It would not be the same as a position which he had secured for himself
                            without fear or favor, but it would be a position, different from
                            farming with Angela's father because it would command a
                            salary.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XIX
                        THIS idea of appealing to the president of one of the great railroads
                            that entered New York was not so difficult to execute. Eugene dressed
                            himself very carefully the next morning, and going to the office of the
                            company in Forty-second Street, consulted the list of officers posted in
                            one of the halls, and finding the president to be on the third floor,
                            ascended. He discovered, after compelling himself by sheer will power to
                            enter, that this so-called office was a mere anteroom to a force of
                            assistants serving the president, and that no one could see him except
                            by appointment.
                        "You might see his secretary if he isn't
                            busy," suggested the clerk who handled his card gingerly.
                        Eugene was for the moment undetermined what to do but decided that maybe
                            the secretary could help him. He asked that his card might be taken to
                            him and that no explanation be demanded of him except by the secretary
                            in person. The latter came out after a while, an under secretary of
                            perhaps twentyeight years of age, short and stout. He was bland and
                            apparently good natured.
                        "What is it I can do for you?" he asked.
                        Eugene had been formulating his request in his mindsome method of putting
                            it briefly and simply.
                        "I came up to see Mr. Wilson," he said, "to
                            see if he would not send me out as a day-laborer of some kind in
                            connection with some department of the road. I am an artist by
                            profession and I am suffering from neurasthenia. All the doctors I have
                            consulted have recommended that I get a simple, manual position of some
                            kind and work at it until I am well. I know of an instance in which Mr.
                            Wilson, assisted, in this way, Mr. Savin the author, and I thought he
                            might be willing to interest himself in my case."
                        At the sound of Henry Savin's name the under-secretary pricked
                            up his ears. He had, fortunately, read one of his books, and this
                            together with Eugene's knowledge of the case, his personal
                            appearance, a certain ring of sincerity in what he was saying, caused
                            him to be momentarily interested.
                        "There is no position in connection with any clerical work which
                            the president could give you, I am sure," he replied.
                            "All of these things are subject to a system of promotion. It
                                 might be that he could place you with
                            one of the construction gangs in one of the departments under a foreman.
                            I don't know. It's very hard work, though. He might
                            consider your case." He smiled commiseratingly. "I
                            question whether you're strong enough to do anything of that
                            sort. It takes a pretty good man to wield a pick or a
                            shovel."
                        "I don't think I had better worry about that
                            now," replied Eugene in return, smiling wearily.
                            "I'll take the work and see if it won't help
                            me. I think I need it badly enough."
                        He was afraid the under-secretary would repent of his suggestion and
                            refuse him entirely.
                        "Can you wait a little while?" asked the latter
                            curiously. He had the idea that Eugene was someone of importance, for he
                            had suggested as a parting argument that he could give a number of
                            exceptional references.
                        "Certainly," said Eugene, and the secretary went his
                            way, coming back in half an hour to hand him an enveloped letter.
                        "We have the idea," he said quite frankly waiving any
                            suggestion of the president's influence in the matter and
                            speaking for himself and the secretary-in-chief, with whom he had agreed
                            that Eugene ought to be assisted, "that you had best apply to
                            the engineering department. Mr. Hobsen, the chief-engineer, can arrange
                            for you. This letter I think will get you what you want."
                        Eugene's heart bounded. He looked at the superscription and saw
                            it addressed to Mr. Woodruff Hobsen, Chief Engineer, and putting it in
                            his pocket without stopping to read it, but thanking the under-secretary
                            profusely, went out. In the hall at a safe distance he stopped and
                            opened it, finding that it spoke of him familiarly as "Mr.
                            Eugene Witla, an artist, temporarily incapacitated by
                            neurasthenia," and went on to say that he was
                            "desirous of being appointed to some manual toil in some
                            construction corps. The president's office recommends this
                            request to your favor."
                        When he read this he knew it meant a position. It roused curious feelings
                            as to the nature and value of stratification. As a laborer he was
                            nothing: as an artist he could get a position as a laborer. After all,
                            his ability as an artist was worth something. It obtained him this
                            refuge. He hugged it joyously, and a few moments later handed it to an
                            under-secretary in the Chief-Engineer's office. Without being
                            seen by anyone in authority he was in return given a letter to Mr.
                            William Haverford, "Engineer of Maintenance of Way," a
                            pale, anmic gentleman of perhaps forty years of age, who, as Eugene
                            learned from him  when he was eventually
                            ushered into his presence a half hour later, was a captain of thirteen
                            thousand men. The latter read the letter from the Engineer's
                            office curiously. He was struck by Eugene's odd mission and his
                            appearance as a man. Artists were queer. This was like one. Eugene
                            reminded him of himself a little in his appearance.
                        "An artist," he said interestedly. "So you
                            want to work as a day laborer?" He fixed Eugene with clear,
                            coal-black eyes looking out of a long, pear-shaped face. Eugene noticed
                            that his hands were long and thin and white and that his high, pale
                            forehead was crowned by a mop of black hair.
                        "Neurasthenia. I've heard a great deal about that of
                            late, but have never been troubled that way myself. I find that I derive
                            considerable benefit when I am nervous from the use of a rubber
                            exerciser. You have seen them perhaps?"
                        "Yes," Eugene replied, "I have. My case is
                            much too grave for that, I think. I have traveled a great deal. But it
                            doesn't seem to do me any good. I want work at something
                            manual, I fancysomething at which I have to work. Exercise in a room
                            would not help me. I think I need a complete change of environment. I
                            will be much obliged if you will place me in some
                            capacity."
                        "Well, this will very likely be it," suggested Mr.
                            Haverford blandly. "Working as a day-laborer will certainly not
                            strike you as play. To tell you the truth, I don't think you
                            can stand it." He reached for a glass-framed map showing the
                            various divisions of the railroad stretching from New England to Chicago
                            and St. Louis, and observed quietly. "I could send you to a
                            great many places, Pennsylvania, New York, Ohio, Michigan,
                            Canada." His finger roved idly about. "I have thirteen
                            thousand men in my department and they are scattered far and
                            wide."
                        Eugene marveled. Such a position! Such authority! This pale, dark man
                            sitting as an engineer at a switch board directing so large a
                            machine.
                        "You have a large force," he said simply. Mr. Haverford
                            smiled wanly.
                        "I think, if you will take my advice, you will not go in a
                            construction corps right away. You can hardly do manual labor. There is
                            a little carpenter shop which we have at Speonk, not very far outside
                            the city, which I should think would answer your needs admirably. A
                            little creek joins the Hudson there and it's out on a point of
                            land, the shop is. It's summer now, and to put you in a
                            broiling sun with a gang of Italians would be  a little rough. Take my advice and go here. It will be
                            hard enough. After you are broken in and you think you want a change I
                            can easily arrange if for you. The money may not make so much difference
                            to you but you may as well have it. It will be fifteen cents an hour. I
                            will give you a letter to Mr. Litlebrown, our division engineer, and he
                            will see that you are properly provided for."
                        Eugene bowed. Inwardly he smiled at the thought that the money would not
                            be acceptable to him. Anything would be acceptable. Perhaps this would
                            be best. It was near the city. The description of the little carpenter
                            shop out on the neck of land appealed to him. It was, as he found when
                            he looked at the map of the immediate division to which this belonged,
                            almost within the city limits. He could live in New Yorkthe upper
                            portion of it anyhow.
                        Again there was a letter, this time to Mr. Henry C. Litlebrown, a tall,
                            meditative, philosophic man whom Eugene found two days later in the
                            division offices at Yonkers, who in turn wrote a letter to Mr. Joseph
                            Brooks, Superintendent of Buildings, at Mott Haven, whose secretary
                            finally gave Eugene a letter to Mr. Jack Stix, foreman carpenter at
                            Speonk. This letter, when presented on a bright Friday afternoon,
                            brought him the advice to come Monday at seven A. M., and so Eugene saw
                            a career as a day laborer stretching very conspicuously before him.
                        The "little shop" in question was located in the most
                            charming manner possible. If it had been set as a stage scene for his
                            especial artistic benefit it could not have been better. On a point of
                            land between the river and the main line of the railroad and a little
                            creek, which was east of the railroad and which the latter crossed on a
                            trestle to get back to the mainland again, it stood, a long, low
                            two-storey structure, green as to its roof, red as to its body, full of
                            windows which commanded picturesque views of passing yachts and steamers
                            and little launches and row-boats anchored safely in the waters of the
                            cove which the creek formed. There was a veritable song of labor which
                            arose from this shop, for it was filled with planes, lathes and
                            wood-turning instruments of various kinds, to say nothing of a great
                            group of carpenters who could make desks, chairs, tables, in short,
                            office furniture of various kinds, and who kept the company's
                            needs of these fittings for its depots and offices well supplied. Each
                            carpenter had a bench before a window on the second floor, and in the
                            centre were the few necessary machines they were always using, small
                            jig, cross cut, band and rip saws, a plane, and four or five lathes. On
                            the ground floor was the engine room, the black-smith's  shop, the giant plane, the great jig and
                            cross cut saws, and the store room and supply closets. Out in the yard
                            were piles of lumber, with tracks in between, and twice every day a
                            local freight called "The Dinky" stopped to switch in
                            or take out loaded cars of lumber or finished furniture and supplies.
                            Eugene, as he approached on the day he presented his letter, stopped to
                            admire the neatness of the low board fence which surrounded it all, the
                            beauty of the water, the droning sweetness of the saws.
                        "Why, the work here couldn't be very hard," he
                            thought. He saw carpenters looking out of the upper windows, and a
                            couple of men in brown overalls and jumpers unloading a car. They were
                            carrying great three-by-six joists on their shoulders. Would he be asked
                            to do anything like that. He scarcely thought so. Mr. Haverford had
                            distinctly indicated in his letter to Mr. Litlebrown that he was to be
                            built up by degrees. Carrying great joists did not appeal to him as the
                            right way, but he presented his letter. He had previously looked about
                            on the high ground which lay to the back of the river and which
                            commanded this point of land, to see if he could find a place to board
                            and lodge, but had seen nothing. The section was very exclusive,
                            occupied by suburban New Yorkers of wealth, and they were not interested
                            in the proposition which he had formulated in his own mind, namely his
                            temporary reception somewhere as a paying guest. He had visions of a
                            comfortable home somewhere now with nice people, for strangely enough
                            the securing of this very minor position had impressed him as the
                            beginning of the end of his bad luck. He was probably going to get well
                            now, in the course of time. If he could only live with some nice family
                            for the summer. In the fall if he were improving, and he thought he
                            might be, Angela could come on. It might be that one of the dealers,
                            Pottle Frres or Jacob Bergman or Henry LaRue would have sold a picture.
                            One hundred and fifty or two hundred dollars joined to his salary would
                            go a long way towards making their living moderately comfortable.
                            Besides Angela's taste and economy, coupled with his own art
                            judgment, could make any little place look respectable and
                            attractive.
                        The problem of finding a room was not so easy. He followed the track
                            south to a settlement which was visible from the shop windows a quarter
                            of a mile away, and finding nothing which suited his taste as to
                            location, returned to Speonk proper and followed the little creek inland
                            half a mile. This adventure delighted him for it revealed a semi-circle
                            of charming cottages ranged upon a hill slope which had for its
                            footstool the little  silvery-bosomed
                            stream. Between the stream and the hill slope ran a semi-circular road
                            and above that another road. Eugene could see at a glance that here was
                            middle class prosperity, smooth lawns, bright awnings, flower pots of
                            blue and yellow and green upon the porches, doorsteps and verandas. An
                            auto standing in front of one house indicated a certain familiarity with
                            the ways of the rich, and a summer road house, situated at the
                            intersection of a road leading out from New York and the little stream
                            where it was crossed by a bridge, indicated that the charms of this
                            village were not unknown to those who came touring and seeking for
                            pleasure. The road house itself was hung with awnings and one dining
                            balcony out over the water. Eugene's desire was fixed on this
                            village at once. He wanted to live hereanywhere in it. He walked about
                            under the cool shade of the trees looking at first one door yard and
                            then another wishing that he might introduce himself by letter and be
                            received. They ought to welcome an artist of his ability and refinement
                            and would, he thought, if they knew. His working in a furniture factory
                            or for the railroad as a day laborer for his health simply added to his
                            picturesque character. In his wanderings he finally came upon a
                            Methodist church quaintly built of red brick and grey stone trimmings,
                            and the sight of its tall, stained glass windows and square
                            fortress-like bell-tower gave him an idea. Why not appeal to the
                            minister? He could explain to him what he wanted, show him his
                            credentialsfor he had with him old letters from editors, publishers and
                            art housesand give him a clear understanding as to why he wanted to come
                            here at all. His ill health and distinction ought to appeal to this man,
                            and he would probably direct him to some one who would gladly have him.
                            At five in the afternoon he knocked at the door and was received in the
                            pastor's studya large still room in which a few flies were
                            buzzing in the shaded light. In a few moments the minister himself came
                            ina tall, grey-headed man, severely simple in his attire and with the
                            easy air of one who is used to public address. He was about to ask what
                            he could do for him when Eugene began with his explanation.
                        "You don't know me at all. I am a stranger in this
                            section. I am an artist by profession and I am coming to Speonk on
                            Monday to work in the railroad shop there for my health. I have been
                            suffering from a nervous breakdown and am going to try day labor for
                            awhile. I want to find a convenient, pleasant place to live, and I
                            thought you might know of someone here, or near here, who might be
                            willing to take me in for a little while. I  can give excellent references. There doesn't appear to be
                            anything in the immediate neighborhood of the shop."
                        "It is rather isolated there," replied the old
                            minister, studying Eugene carefully. "I have often wondered how
                            all those men like it, traveling so far. None of them live about
                            here." He looked at Eugene solemnly, taking in his various
                            characteristics. He was not badly impressed. He seemed to be a reserved,
                            thoughtful, dignified young man and decidedly artistic. It struck him as
                            very interesting that he should be trying so radical a thing as day
                            labor for his nerves.
                        "Let me see," he said thoughtfully. He sat down in his
                            chair near his table and put his hand over his eyes. "I
                            don't think of anyone just at the moment. There are plenty of
                            families who have room to take you if they would, but I question very
                            much whether they would. In fact I'm rather sure they
                            wouldn't. Let me see now."
                        He thought again.
                        Eugene studied his big aquiline nose, his shaggy grey eyebrows, his
                            thick, crisp, grey hair. Already his mind was sketching him, the desk,
                            the dim walls, the whole atmosphere of the room.
                        "No, no," he said slowly. "I don't
                            think of anyone. There is one familyMrs. Hibberdell. She lives in thelet
                            me seefirst, second, third, tenth house above here. She has one nephew
                            with her at present, a young man of about your age, and I don't
                            think anyone else. I don't know that she would consider taking
                            you in, but she might. Her house is quite large. She did have her
                            daughter with her at one time, but I'm not sure that
                            she's there now. I think not."
                        He talked as though he were reporting his own thoughts to himself
                            audibly.
                        Eugene pricked up his ears at the mention of a daughter. During all the
                            time he had been out of New York he had not, with the exception of
                            Frieda, had a single opportunity to talk intimately with any girl.
                            Angela had been with him all the time. Here in New York since he had
                            been back he had been living under such distressing conditions that he
                            had not thought of either youth or love. He had no business to be
                            thinking of it now, but this summer air, this tree-shaded village, the
                            fact that he had a position, small as it was, on which he could depend
                            and which would no doubt benefit him mentally, and that he was somehow
                            feeling better about himself because he was going to work, made him feel
                            that he might look more interestedly on life again. He was not going to
                            die; he was going to get well.  Finding
                            this position proved it. And he might go to the house now and find some
                            charming girl who would like him very much. Angela was away. He was
                            alone. He had again the freedom of his youth. If he were only well and
                            working!
                        He thanked the old minister very politely and went his way, recognizing
                            the house by certain details given him by the minister, a double
                            balconied veranda, some red rockers, two yellow jardinires at the
                            doorstep, a greyish white picket fence and gate. He walked up smartly
                            and rang the bell. A very intelligent woman of perhaps fifty-five or
                            sixty with bright grey hair and clear light blue eyes was coming out
                            with a book in her hand. Eugene stated his case. She listened with keen
                            interest, looking him over the while. His appearance took her fancy, for
                            she was of a strong intellectual and literary turn of mind.
                        "I wouldn't ordinarily consider anything of the kind,
                            but I am alone here with my nephew and the house could easily
                            accommodate a dozen. I don't want to do anything which will
                            irritate him, but if you will come back in the morning I will let you
                            know. It would not disturb me to have you about. Do you happen to know
                            of an artist by the name of Deesa?"
                        "I know him well," replied Eugene.
                            "He's an old friend of mine."
                        "He is a friend of my daughter's, I think. Have you
                            enquired anywhere else here in the village?"
                        "No," said Eugene.
                        "That is just as well," she replied.
                        He took the hint.
                        So there was no daughter here. Well, what matter? The view was beautiful.
                            Of an evening he could sit out here in one of the rocking chairs and
                            look at the water. The evening sun, already low in the west was
                            burnishing it a bright gold. The outline of the hill on the other side
                            was dignified and peaceful. He could sleep and work as a day laborer and
                            take life easy for a while. He could get well now and this was the way
                            to do it. Day laborer! How fine, how original, how interesting. He felt
                            somewhat like a knight-errant reconnoitring a new and very strange
                            world.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XX
                        THE matter of securing admission to this house was quickly settled. The
                            nephew, a genial, intelligent man of thirtyfour, as Eugene discovered
                            later, had no objection. It appeared to Eugene that in some way he
                            contributed to the support of this house, though Mrs. Hibberdell
                            obviously had some money of her own. A charmingly furnished room on the
                            second floor adjoining one of the several baths was assigned him, and he
                            was at once admitted to the freedom of the house. There were books, a
                            piano (but no one to play it), a hammock, a maid-of-all-work, and an
                            atmosphere of content and peace. Mrs. Hibberdell, a widow, presumably of
                            some years of widowhood, was of that experience and judgment in life
                            which gave her intellectual poise. She was not particularly inquisitive
                            about anything in connection with him, and so far as he could see from
                            surface indications was refined, silent, conservative. She could jest,
                            and did, in a subtle understanding way. He told her quite frankly at the
                            time he applied that he was married, that his wife was in the West and
                            that he expected her to return after his health was somewhat improved.
                            She talked with him about art and books and life in general. Music
                            appeared to be to her a thing apart. She did not care much for it. The
                            nephew, Davis Simpson, was neither literary nor artistic, and apparently
                            cared little for music. He was a buyer for one of the larger department
                            stores, a slight, dapper, rather dandified type of man, with a lean, not
                            thin but tight-muscled face, and a short black mustache, and he appeared
                            to be interested only in the humors of character, trade, baseball and
                            methods of entertaining himself. The things that pleased Eugene about
                            him were that he was clean, simple, direct, goodnatured and courteous.
                            He had apparently no desire to infringe on anybody's privacy,
                            but was fond of stirring up light discussions and interpolating witty
                            remarks. He liked also to grow flowers and to fish. The care of a border
                            of flowers which glorified a short gravel path in the back yard received
                            his especial attention evenings and mornings.
                        It was a great pleasure for Eugene to come into this atmosphere after the
                            storm which had been assailing him for the past three years, and
                            particularly for the past ninety days. He was only asked to pay eight
                            dollars a week by Mrs. Hibberdell, thougl 
                            he realized that what he was obtaining in home atmosphere here was not
                            ordinarily purchasable at any price in the public market. The maid saw
                            to it that a little bouquet of flowers was put on his dressing table
                            daily. He was given fresh towels and linen in ample quantities. The bath
                            was his own. He could sit out on the porch of an evening and look at the
                            water uninterrupted or he could stay in the library and read. Breakfast
                            and dinner were invariably delightful occasions, for though he rose at
                            five-forty-five in order to have his bath, breakfast, and be able to
                            walk to the factory and reach it by seven, Mrs. Hibberdell was
                            invariably up, as it was her habit to rise thus early, had been so for
                            years. She liked it. Eugene in his weary mood could scarcely understand
                            this. Davis came to the table some few moments before he would be
                            leaving. He invariably had some cheery remark to offer, for he was never
                            sullen or gloomy. His affairs, whatever they were, did not appear to
                            oppress him. Mrs. Hibberdell would talk to Eugene genially about his
                            work, this small, social centre of which they were a part and which was
                            called Riverwood, the current movements in politics, religion, science
                            and so forth. There were references sometimes to her one daughter, who
                            was married and living in New York. It appeared that she occasionally
                            visited her mother here. Eugene was delighted to think he had been so
                            fortunate as to find this place. He hoped to make himself so agreeable
                            that there would be no question as to his welcome, and he was not
                            disappointed.
                        Between themselves Mrs. Hibberdell and Davis discussed him, agreeing that
                            he was entirely charming, a good fellow, and well worth having about. At
                            the factory where Eugene worked and where the conditions were radically
                            different, he made for himself an atmosphere which was almost entirely
                            agreeable to him, though he quarreled at times with specific details. On
                            the first morning, for instance, he was put to work with two men, heavy
                            clods of souls he thought at first, familiarly known about the yard as
                            John and Bill. These two, to his artistic eye, appeared machines, more
                            mechanical than humanly self-directive. They were of medium height, not
                            more than five feet, nine inches tall and weighed about one hundred and
                            eighty pounds each. One had a round, poorly modeled face very much the
                            shape of an egg, to which was attached a heavy yellowish mustache. He
                            had a glass eye, complicated in addition by a pair of spectacles which
                            were fastened over his large, protruding red ears with steel hooks. He
                            wore a battered brown hat, now a limp shapeless mass. His name was Bill
                            Jeffords and he responded sometimes to the sobriquet of "One
                            Eye."
                        
                        The other man was John alias "Jack" Duncan, an
                            individual of the same height and build with but slightly more modeling
                            to his face and with little if any greater intelligence. He looked
                            somewhat the shrewderEugene fancied there might be lurking in him
                            somewhere a spark of humor, but he was mistaken. Unquestionably in
                            Jeffords there was none. Jack Stix, the foreman-carpenter, a tall,
                            angular, ambling man with red hair, a red mustache, shifty, uncertain
                            blue eyes and noticeably big hands and feet, had suggested to Eugene
                            that he work with these men for a little while. It was his idea to
                            "try him out," as he told one of the associate foremen
                            who was in charge of a gang of Italians working in the yard for the
                            morning, and he was quite equal to doing it. He thought Eugene had no
                            business here and might possibly be scared off by a little rough
                            work.
                        "He's up here for his health," he told him.
                            "I don't know where he comes from. Mr. Brooks sent him
                            up here with orders to put him on. I want to see how he takes to real
                            work for awhile."
                        "Look out you don't hurt him," suggested the
                            other. "He don't look very strong to me."
                        "He's strong enough to carry a few spiles, I guess. If
                            Jimmy can carry 'em, he can. I don't intend to keep
                            him at it long."
                        Eugene knew nothing of this, but when he was told to "come
                            along, new man" and shown a pile of round, rough ash trunk
                            cutting six inches in diameter and eight feet long, his courage failed
                            him. He was suffered to carry some of these to the second floor, how
                            many he did not know.
                        "Take 'em to Thompson up there in the corner,"
                            said Jeffords dully.
                        Eugene grasped one uncertainly in the middle with his thin, artistic
                            hands. He did not know that there were ways of handling lumber just as
                            there were ways of handling a brush. He tried to lift it but could not.
                            The rough bark scratched his fingers cruelly.
                        "Yah gotta learn somepin about that before yuh begin, I
                            guess," said Jack Duncan, who had been standing by eyeing him
                            narrowly.
                        Jeffords had gone about some other work.
                        "I suppose I don't know very much about it,"
                            replied Eugene shamefacedly stopping and waiting for further
                            instructions.
                        "Lemme show you a trick," said his associate.
                            "There's tricks in all these here trades. Take it by
                            the end this-a-way, and push it along until you can stand it up. Stoop
                            down now and put your shoulder right next the middle. Gotta pad under
                            your  shirt? You oughtta have one. Now put
                            your right arm out ahead o'yuh, on the spile. Now
                            you're all right."
                        Eugene straightened up and the rough post balanced itself evenly but
                            crushingly on his shoulder. It appeared to grind his muscles and his
                            back and legs ached instantly. He started bravely forward straining to
                            appear at ease but within fifty feet he was suffering agony. He walked
                            the length of the shop, however, up the stairs and back again to the
                            window where Thompson was, his forehead bursting with perspiration and
                            his ears red with blood. He fairly staggered as he neared the machine
                            and dropped the post heavily.
                        "Look what you're doin'," said a
                            voice behind him. It was Thompson, the lathe worker.
                            "Can't you put that down easy?"
                        "No, I can't" replied Eugene angrily, his face
                            tinged with a faint blush from his extreme exertion. He was astonished
                            and enraged to think they should put him to doing work like this,
                            especially since Mr. Haverford had told him it would be easy. He
                            suspected at once a plot to drive him away. He would have added
                            "these are too damn heavy for me," but he restrained
                            himself. He went down stairs wondering how he was to get up the others.
                            He fingered about the pole gingerly hoping that the time taken this way
                            would ease his pain and give him strength for the next one. Finally he
                            picked up another and staggered painfully to the loft again. The foreman
                            had his eye on him but said nothing. It amused him a little to think
                            Eugene was having such a hard time. It wouldn't hurt him for a
                            change, would do him good. "When he gets four carried up let
                            him go," he said to Thompson, however, feeling that he had best
                            lighten the situation a little. The latter watched Eugene out of the
                            tail of his eye noting the grimaces he made and the strain he was
                            undergoing, but he merely smiled. When four had been dropped on the
                            floor he said: "That'll do for the present,"
                            and Eugene, heaving a groan of relief, went angrily away. In his
                            nervous, fantastic, imaginative and apprehensive frame of mind, he
                            imagined he had been injured for life. He feared he had strained a
                            muscle or broken a blood vessel somewhere.
                        "Good heavens, I can't stand anything like
                            this," he thought. "If the work is going to be this
                            hard I'll have to quit. I wonder what they mean by treating me
                            this way. I didn't come here to do this."
                        Visions of days and weeks of back-breaking toil stretched before him. It
                            would never do. He couldn't stand it. He saw his old search for
                            work coming back, and this frightened him in another direction.
                            "I mustn't give up so easily," he counseled
                                 himself in spite of his distress.
                            "I have to stick this out a little while anyhow." It
                            seemed in this first trying hour as though he were between the devil and
                            the deep sea. He went slowly down into the yard to find Jeffords and
                            Duncan. They were working at a car, one inside receiving lumber to be
                            piled, the other bringing it to him.
                        "Get down, Bill," said John, who was on the ground
                            looking up at his partner indifferently. "You get up there, new
                            man. What's your name?"
                        "Witla," said Eugene.
                        "Well, my name's Duncan. We'll bring this
                            stuff to you and you pile it."
                        It was more heavy lumber, as Eugene apprehensively observed, quarter cut
                            joists for some building"four by fours" they called
                            thembut after he was shown the art of handling them they were not
                            unmanageable. There were methods of sliding and balancing them which
                            relieved him of a great quantity of labor. Eugene had not thought to
                            provide himself with gloves though, and his hands were being cruelly
                            torn. He stopped once to pick a splinter out of his thumb and Jeffords,
                            who was coming up, asked, "Ain't cha got no
                            gloves?"
                        "No," said Eugene, "I didn't think to
                            get any."
                        "Your hands'll get pretty well bunged up, I'm
                            afraid. Maybe Joseph'll let you have his for to-day, you might
                            go in and ask him."
                        "Where's Joseph?" asked Eugene.
                        "He's inside there. He's taking from the
                            plane."
                        Eugene did not understand this quite. He knew what a plane was, had been
                            listening to it sing mightily all the morning, the shavings flying as it
                            smoothed the boards, but taking?
                        
                        "Where's Joseph?" he asked of the plane
                            driver.
                        He nodded his head to a tall hump-shouldered boy of perhaps twenty-two.
                            He was a big, simple, innocent looking fellow. His face was long and
                            narrow, his mouth wide, his eyes a watery blue, his hair a shock of
                            brown, loose and wavy, with a good sprinkling of sawdust in it. About
                            his waist was a big piece of hemp bagging tied by a grass rope. He wore
                            an old faded wool cap with a long visor in order to shield his eyes from
                            the flying chips and dust, and when Eugene came in one hand was lifted
                            protectingly to shield his eyes. Eugene approached him
                            deprecatingly.
                        "One of the men out in the yard said that you might have a pair
                            of gloves you would lend me for to-day. I'm piling lumber and
                            it's tearing my hands. I forgot to get a pair."
                        
                        "Sure," said Joseph genially waving his hand to the
                            driver to stop. "They're over here in my locker. I
                            know what that is. I been there. When I come here they rubbed it into me
                            jist as they're doin' to you. Doncher mind.
                            You'll come out all right. Up here for your health, are you? It
                            ain't always like that. Somedays there ain't most
                            nothin' to do here. Then somedays ag'in
                            there's a whole lot. Well, it's good healthy work, I
                            can say that. I ain't most never sick. Nice fresh air we git
                            here and all that."
                        He rambled on, fumbling under his bagging apron for his keys, unlocking
                            his locker and producing a great pair of old yellow lumber gloves. He
                            gave them to Eugene cheerfully and the latter thanked him. He liked
                            Eugene at once and Eugene liked him. "A nice fellow
                            that," he said, as he went back to his car. "Think of
                            how genially he gave me these. Lovely! If only all men were as genial
                            and kindly disposed as this boy, how nice the world would be."
                            He put on the gloves and found his work instantly easier for he could
                            grasp the joists firmly and without pain. He worked on until noon when
                            the whistle blew and he ate a dreary lunch sitting by himself on one
                            side, pondering. After one he was called to carry shavings, one basket
                            after another back through the blacksmith shop to the engine room in the
                            rear where was a big shaving bin. By four o'clock he had seen
                            almost all the characters he was going to associate with for the time
                            that he stayed there. Harry Fornes, the blacksmith or "the
                            village smith," as Eugene came to call him later on, Jimmy
                            Sudds, the blacksmith's helper or
                            "maid-of-all-work" as he promptly named him; John
                            Peters, the engineer, Malachi Dempsey, the driver of the great plane,
                            Joseph Mews and, in addition, carpenters, tin-smiths, plumbers,
                            painters, and those few exceptional cabinet makers who passed through
                            the lower floor now and then, men who were about the place from time to
                            time and away from it at othersall of whom took note of Eugene at first
                            as a curiosity.
                        Eugene was himself intensely interested in the men. Harry Fornes and
                            Jimmy Sudds attracted him especially. The former was an undersized
                            American of distant Irish extraction who was so broad chested, swollen
                            armed, square-jawed and generally selfreliant and forceful as to seem a
                            minor Titan. He was remarkably industrious, turning out a great deal of
                            work and beating a piece of iron with a resounding lick which could be
                            heard all about the hills and hollows outside. Jimmy Sudds, his
                            assistant, was like his master equally undersized, dirty, gnarled,
                            twisted, his teeth showing like a row of yellow snags, his ears  standing out like small fans, his eye
                            askew, but nevertheless with so genial a look in his face as to disarm
                            criticism at once. Every body liked Jimmy Sudds because he was honest,
                            single-minded and free of malicious intent. His coat was three and his
                            trousers times too large for him, and his shoes were obviously bought at
                            a second-hand store, but he had the vast merit of being a picture.
                            Eugene was fascinated with him. He learned shortly that Jimmy Sudds
                            truly believed that buffaloes were to be shot around Buffalo, New
                            York.
                        John Peters, the engineer, was another character who fixed his attention.
                            John was almost helplessly fat and was known for this reason as
                            "Big John." He was a veritable whale of a man. Six
                            feet tall, weighing over three hundred pounds and standing these summer
                            days in his hot engine room, his shirt off, his suspenders down, his
                            great welts of fat showing through his thin cotton undershirt, he looked
                            as though he might be suffering, but he was not. John, as Eugene soon
                            found out, did not take life emotionally. He stood mostly in his engine
                            room door when the shade was there staring out on the glistening water
                            of the river, occasionally wishing that he didn't need to work
                            but could lie and sleep indefinitely instead.
                        " Wouldja think them fellers would feel purty good
                            sittin' out there on the poop deck of them there yachts
                            smokin' their perfectos?" he once asked Eugene,
                            apropos of the magnificent private vessels that passed up and down the
                            river.
                        "I certainly would," laughed Eugene.
                        "Aw! Haw! That's the life fer yer uncle Dudley. I could
                            do that there with any of 'em. Aw! Haw!"
                        Eugene laughed joyously.
                        "Yes, that's the life," he said. "We
                            all could stand out share."
                        Malachi Dempsey, the driver of the great plane, was dull, tight-mouthed,
                            silent, more from lack of ideas than anything else, though oyster-wise
                            he had learned to recede from all manner of harm by closing his shell
                            tightly. He knew no way to avoid earthly harm save by being
                            preternaturally silent, and Eugene saw this quickly. He used to stare at
                            him for long periods at a time, marvelling at the curiosity his attitude
                            presented. Eugene himself, though, was a curiosity to the others, even
                            more so than they to him. He did not look like a workingman and could
                            not be made to do so. His spirit was too high, his eye too flashing and
                            incisive. He smiled at himself carrying basketful after basketful of
                            shavings from the planing room, where it rained shavings and from which,
                            because of the lack of a shaving blower, they had to be removed back to
                            the hot engine room where Big John 
                            presided. The latter took a great fancy to Eugene, but something after
                            the fashion of a dog for a master. He did not have a single idea above
                            his engine, his garden at home, his wife, his children and his pipe.
                            These and sleeplots of itwere his joys, his recreations, the totality of
                            his world.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XXI
                        THERE were many days now, three months all told, in which Eugene obtained
                            insight into the workaday world such as he had not previously had. It is
                            true he had worked before in somewhat this fashion, but his Chicago
                            experience was without the broad philosophic insight which had come to
                            him since. Formerly the hierarchies of power in the universe and on
                            earth were inexplicable to himall out of order; but here, where he saw
                            by degrees ignorant, almost animal intelligence, being directed by
                            greater, shrewder, and at times it seemed to him possibly malicious
                            intelligenceshe was not quite sure about thatwho were so strong that the
                            weaker ones must obey them, he began to imagine that in a rough way life
                            might possibly be ordered to the best advantage even under this system.
                            It was true that men quarreled here with each other as to who should be
                            allowed to lead. There was here as elsewhere great seeking for the
                            privileges and honors of direction and leadership in such petty things
                            as the proper piling of lumber, the planing of boards, the making of
                            desks and chairs, and men were grimly jealous of their talents and
                            abilities in these respects, but in the main it was the jealousy that
                            makes for ordered, intelligent control. All were striving to do the work
                            of intelligence, not of unintelligence. Their pride, however ignorant it
                            might be, was in the superior, not the inferior. They might complain of
                            their work, snarl at each other, snarl at their bosses, but after all it
                            was because they were not able or permitted to do the higher work and
                            carry out the orders of the higher mind. All were striving to do
                            something in a better way, a superior way, and to obtain the honors and
                            emoluments that come from doing anything in a superior way. If they were
                            not rewarded according to their estimate of their work there was wrath
                            and opposition and complaint and self-pity, but the work of the superior
                            intelligence was the thing which each in his blind, self-seeking way was
                            apparently trying to do.
                        Because he was not so far out of his troubles that he could be forgetful
                            of them, and because he was not at all certain that his talent to paint
                            was ever coming back to him, he was not as cheerful at times as he might
                            have been; but he managed to conceal it pretty well. This one thought
                            with its attendant  ills of probable
                            poverty and obscurity were terrible to him. Time was slipping away and
                            youth. But when he was not thinking of this he was cheerful enough.
                            Besides he had the ability to simulate cheerfulness even when he did not
                            feel it. Because he did not permanently belong to this world of day
                            labor and because his position which had been given him as a favor was
                            moderately secure, he felt superior to everything about him. He did not
                            wish to show this feeling in any waywas very anxious as a matter of fact
                            to conceal it, but his sense of superiority and ultimate indifference to
                            all these petty details was an abiding thought with him. He went to and
                            fro carrying a basket of shavings, jesting with "the village
                            smith," making friends with "Big John," the
                            engineer, with Joseph, Malachi Dempsey, little Jimmy Sudds, in fact
                            anyone and everyone who came near him who would be friends. He took a
                            pencil one day at the noon hour and made a sketch of Harry Fornes, the
                            blacksmith, his arm upraised at the anvil, his helper, Jimmy Sudds,
                            standing behind him, the fire glowing in the forge. Fornes, who was
                            standing beside him, looking over his shoulder, could scarcely believe
                            his eyes.
                        "Wotcha doin'?" he asked Eugene curiously,
                            looking over his shoulder, for it was at the blacksmith's
                            table, in the sun of his window that he was sitting, looking out at the
                            water. Eugene had bought a lunch box and was carrying with him daily a
                            delectable lunch put up under Mrs. Hibberdell's direction. He
                            had eaten his noonday meal and was idling, thinking over the beauty of
                            the scene, his peculiar position, the curiosities of this shopanything
                            and everything that came into his head.
                        "Wait a minute," he said genially, for he and the smith
                            were already as thick as thieves.
                        The latter gazed interestedly and finally exclaimed:
                        "W'y that's me, ain't
                            it?"
                        "Yep!" said Eugene.
                        "Wat are you goin' to do with that wen you get through
                            with it?" asked the latter avariciously.
                        "I'm going to give it to you, of course."
                        "Say, I'm much obliged fer that," replied the
                            smith delightedly. "Gee, the wife'll be tickled to see
                            that. You're a artist, ain't cher? I hearda them
                            fellers. I never saw one. Gee, that's good, that looks just
                            like me, don't it?"
                        "Something," said Eugene quietly, still working. The
                            helper came in.
                        "Watcha' doin'?" he asked.
                        "He's drawin' a pitcher, ya rube, watchye
                            suppose he's doin',"  informed the blacksmith authoritatively.
                            "Don't git too close. He's gotta have
                            room."
                        "Aw, whose crowdin'?" asked the irritably. He
                            realized at once that his superior was trying to shove him in the
                            background, this being a momentous occasion. He did not propose that any
                            such thing, should happen. The blacksmith glared at him irritably but
                            the progress of the art work was too exciting to permit of any immediate
                            opportunities for hostilities, so Jimmy was allowed to crowd close and
                            see.
                        "Ho, ho! that's you, ain't it," he
                            asked the smith curiously, indicating with a grimy thumb the exact
                            position of that dignitary on the drawing.
                        "Don't," said the latter,
                            loftily"sure! He's gotta have room."
                        "An' there's me. Ho! Ho! Gee, I look swell,
                            don't I? Ho! ho!"
                        The little helper's tushes were showing joyouslya smile that
                            extended far about either side of his face. He was entirely unconscious
                            of the rebuke administered by the smith.
                        "If you're perfectly good, Jimmy," observed
                            Eugene cheerfully still working, "I may make a sketch of you,
                            sometime!"
                        "Na! Will you? Go on! Say, hully chee. Dat'll be fine,
                            Won't it? Say, ho! ho! De folks at home won't know me.
                            I'd like to have a ting like dat, say!"
                        Eugene smiled. The smith was regretful. This dividing of honors was not
                            quite all that it might be. Still his own picture was delightful. It
                            looked exactly like the shop. Eugene worked until the whistle blew and
                            the belts began to slap and the wheels to whirr. Then he got up.
                        "There you are, Fornes," he said. "Like
                            it?"
                        "Gee, it's swell," said the latter and carried
                            it to the locker. He took it out after a bit though and hung it up over
                            his bench on the wall opposite his forge, for he wanted everyone to see.
                            It was one of the most significant events in his life. This sketch was
                            the subject immediately of a perfect storm of discussion. Eugene was an
                            artistcould draw picturesthat was a revelation in itself. Then this
                            picture was so life-like. It looked like Fornes and Sudds and the shop.
                            Everyone was interested. Everyone jealous. They could not understand how
                            God had favored the smith in this manner. Why hadn't Eugene
                            sketched them before he did him? Why didn't he immediately
                            offer to sketch them now? Big John came first, tipped off and piloted by
                            Jimmy Sudds.
                        "Say!" he said his big round eyes popping with
                            surprise.  "There's some
                            class to that, what? That looks like you, Fornes. Jinged if it
                            don't! An' Suddsy! Bless me if there ain't
                            Suddsy. Say, there you are, kid, natural as life, damned if you
                            ain't. That's fine. You oughta keep that,
                            smith."
                        "I intend to," said the latter proudly.
                        Big John went back to his engine room regretfully. Next came Joseph Mews,
                            his shoulders humped, his head bobbing like a duck, for he had this
                            habit of nodding when he walked.
                        "Say, wot d'ye thinka that?" he asked.
                            "Ain't that fine. He kin drawr Jist as good as they do
                            in them there magazines. I see them there things in them, now
                            an' then. Ain't that swell? Lookit Suddsy back in
                            there. Eh, Suddsy, you're in right, all right. I wisht
                            he'd make a picture o' us out there. We're
                            just as good as you people. Wats the matter with us, eh?"
                        "Oh, he ain't goin' to be bothered
                            makin' pitchers of you mokes," replied the smith
                            jestingly. "He only draws real ones. You want to remember that,
                            Mews. He's gotta have good people to make sketches of. None
                            o' your half-class plane-drivers and jig-saw
                            operators."
                        "Is that so? Is that so?" replied Joseph
                            contemptuously, his love of humor spurred by the slight cast upon his
                            ability.
                        "Well if he was lookin for real ones he made a mistake wen he
                            come here. They're all up front. You don't want to
                            forget that, smith. They don't live in no blacksmith's
                            shop as I ever seen it."
                        "Cut it out! Cut it out!" called little Sudds from a
                            position of vantage near the door. "Here comes the
                            boss," and Joseph immediately pretended to be going to the
                            engine room for a drink. The smith blew up his fire as though it were
                            necessary to heat the iron he had laid in the coals. Jack Stix came
                            ambling by.
                        "Who did that?" he asked, stopping after a single
                            general, glance looking at the sketch on the wall.
                        "Mr. Witla, the new man," replied the smith,
                            reverently.
                        "Say, that's pretty good, ain't it?"
                            the foreman replied pleasantly. "He did that well. He must be
                            an artist."
                        "I think he is," replied the smith, cautiously. He was
                            always eager to curry favor with the boss. He came near to his side and
                            looked over his arm. "He done it here today at noon in about a
                            half an hour."
                        "Say, that's pretty good now," and the foreman
                            went on his way, thinking.
                        If Eugene could do that, why was he here? It must be his run down
                            condition, sure enough. And he must be the friend of someone high in
                            authority. He had better be civil. Hitherto  he had stood in suspicious awe of Eugene, not knowing what to make of
                            him. He could not figure out just why he was herea spy possibly. Now he
                            thought that he might be mistaken.
                        "Don't let him work too hard," he told Bill
                            and John. "He ain't any too strong yet. He came up
                            here for his health."
                        He was obeyed in this respect, for there was no gain-saying the wishes of
                            a foreman, but this open plea for consideration was the one thing if any
                            which could have weakened Eugene's popularity. The men did not
                            like the foreman. He would have been stronger at any time in the
                            affections of the men if the foreman had been less markedly considerate
                            or against him entirely.
                        The days which followed were restful enough though hard, for Eugene found
                            that the constant whirl of work which went on here, and of which he had
                            naturally to do his share, was beneficial to him. For the first time in
                            several years he slept soundly. He would don his suit of blue overalls
                            and jumper in the morning a few minutes before the whistle blew at seven
                            and from then on until noon, and from one o'clock until six he
                            would carry shavings, pile lumber for one or several of the men in the
                            yard, load or unload cars, help Big John stoke his boilers, or carry
                            chips and shavings from the second floor. He wore an old hat which he
                            had found in a closet at Mrs. Hibberdell's, a faded, crumpled
                            memory of a soft tan-colored sombrero which he punched jauntily to a
                            peak and wore over one ear. He had big new yellow gloves which he kept
                            on his hands all day, which were creased and frayed, but plenty good
                            enough for this shop and yard. He learned to handle lumber nicely, to
                            pile with skill, to "take" for Malachi Dempsey from
                            the plane, to drive the jig-saw, and other curious bits. He was tireless
                            in his energy because he was weary of thinking and hoped by sheer
                            activity to beat down and overcome his notion of artistic inabilityto
                            forget that he believed that he couldn't paint and so be able
                            to paint again. He had surprised himself in these sketches he had made,
                            for his first feeling under the old rgime would have been that he could
                            not make them. Here, because the men were so eager and he was so much
                            applauded, he found it rather easy and, strange to say, he thought they
                            were good.
                        At the home of Mrs. Hibberdell at night he would lay off all his working
                            clothes before dinner, take a cold bath and don a new brown suit, which
                            because of the assurance of this position he had bought for eighteen
                            dollars, ready made. He found it hard to get off to buy anything, for
                            his pay ceased (fifteen cents an hour) the moment he left the shop. He
                            had put his pictures  in storage in New
                            York and could not get off (or at least did not want to take the time
                            off) to go and sell any. He found that he could leave without question
                            if he wanted no pay, but if he wanted pay and had a good reason he could
                            sometimes be excused. His appearance about the house and yard after
                            six-thirty in the evening and on Sundays was attractive enough. He
                            looked delicate, refined, conservative, and, when not talking to
                            someone, rather wistful. He was lonely and restless, for he felt
                            terribly out of it. This house was lonely. As at Alexandria, before he
                            met Frieda, he was wishing there were some girls about. He wondered
                            where Frieda was, what she was doing, whether she had married. He hoped
                            not. If life had only given him a girl like Friedaso young, so
                            beautiful! He would sit and gaze at the water after dark in the
                            moonlight, for this was his one consolationthe beauty of naturethinking.
                            How lovely it all was! How lovely life was,this village, the summer
                            trees, the shop where he worked, the water, Joseph, little Jimmy, Big
                            John, the stars. If he could paint again, if he could be in love again.
                            In love! In love! Was there any other sensation in the world like that
                            of being in love?
                        A spring evening, say, some soft sweet odours blowing as they were
                            tonight, the dark trees bending down, or the twilight angelically
                            silver, hyacinth, orange, some soothing murmurs of the wind; some faint
                            chirping of the tree-toads or frogs and then your girl. Dear God! Could
                            anything be finer than that? Was anything else in life worth while? Your
                            girl, her soft young arms about your neck, her lips to yours in pure
                            love, her eyes speaking like twin pools of color here in the night.
                        So had it been only a little while ago with Frieda. So had it been once
                            with Angela. So long ago with Stella! Dear, sweet Stella, how nice she
                            was. And now here he was sick and lonely and married and Angela would be
                            coming back soonandHe would get up frequently to shut out these
                            thoughts, and either read or walk or go to bed. But he was lonely,
                            almost irritably so. There was only one true place of comfort for Eugene
                            anywhere and that was in the spring time in love.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XXII
                        IT was while he was mooning along in this mood, working, dreaming,
                            wishing, that there came, one day to her mother's house at
                            Riverwood, Carlotta Wilson,Mrs. Norman Wilson, in the world in which she
                            moveda tall brunette of thirty-two, handsome after the English fashion,
                            shapely, graceful, with a knowledge of the world which was not only
                            compounded of natural intelligence and a sense of humor, but experiences
                            fortunate and unfortunate which had shown her both the showy and the
                            seamy sides of life. To begin with she was the wife of a gamblera
                            professional gamblerof that peculiar order which essays the rle of a
                            gentleman, looks the part, and fleeces unmercifully the unwary partakers
                            of their companionship. Carlotta Hibberdell, living with her mother at
                            that time in Springfield, Massachusetts, had met him at a local series
                            of races, which she was attending with her father and mother, where
                            Wilson happened to be accidentally upon another mission. Her father, a
                            real estate dealer, and fairly successful at one time, was very much
                            interested in racing horses, and owned several of worthy records though
                            of no great fame. Norman Wilson had posed as a real estate speculator
                            himself, and had handled several fairly successful deals in land, but
                            his principal skill and reliance was in gambling. He was familiar with
                            all the gambling opportunities of the city, knew a large circle of those
                            who liked to gamble, men and women in New York and elsewhere, and his
                            luck or skill at times was phenomenal. At other times it was very bad.
                            There were periods when he could afford to live in the most expensive
                            apartment houses, dine at the best restaurants, visit the most expensive
                            country pleasure resorts and otherwise disport himself in the
                            companionship of friends. At other times, because of bad luck, he could
                            not afford any of these things and though he held to his estate grimly
                            had to borrow money to do it. He was somewhat of a fatalist in his
                            interpretation of affairs and would hang on with the faith that his luck
                            would turn. It did turn invariably, of course, for when difficulties
                            began to swarm thick and fast he would think vigorously and would
                            usually evolve some idea which served to help him out. His plan was
                            always to spin a web like a spider and await the blundering flight of
                            some unwary fly.
                        
                        At the time she married him Carlotta Hibberdell did not know of the
                            peculiar tendencies and subtle obsession of her ardent lover. Like all
                            men of his type he was suave, persuasive, passionate, eager. There was a
                            certain cat-like magnetism about him also which fascinated her. She
                            could not understand him at that time and she never did afterwards. The
                            license which he subsequently manifested not only with her but with
                            others astonished and disgusted her. She found him selfish, domineering,
                            outside his own particular field shallow, not at all artistic,
                            emotional, or poetic. He was inclined to insist on the last touch of
                            material refinement in surroundings (so far as he understood them) when
                            he had money, but she found to her regret that he did not understand
                            them. In his manner with her and everyone else he was top-lofty,
                            superior, condescending. His stilted language at times enraged and at
                            other times amused her, and when her original passion passed and she
                            began to see through his pretence to his motives and actions she became
                            indifferent and then weary. She was too big a woman mentally to quarrel
                            with him much. She was too indifferent to life in its totality to really
                            care. Her one passion was for an ideal lover of some type, and having
                            been thoroughly mistaken in him she looked abroad wondering whether
                            there were any ideal men.
                        Various individuals came to their apartments. There were gamblers, blas
                            society men, mining experts, speculators, sometimes with, sometimes
                            without a wife. From these and from her husband and her own observation
                            she learned of all sorts of scoundrels, mes-alliances, queer
                            manifestations of incompatibility of temper, queer freaks of sex desire.
                            Because she was good looking, graceful, easy in her manners, there were
                            no end of proposals, overtures, hints and luring innuendos cast in her
                            direction. She had long been accustomed to them. Because her husband
                            deserted her openly for other women and confessed it in a blas way she
                            saw no valid reason for keeping herself from other men. She chose her
                            lovers guardedly and with subtle taste, beginning after mature
                            deliberation with one who pleased her greatly. She was seeking
                            refinement, emotion, understanding coupled with some ability and they
                            were not so easy to find. The long record of her liaisons is not for
                            this story, but their impress on her character was important.
                        She was indifferent in her manner at most times and to most people. A
                            good jest or story drew from her a hearty laugh. She was not interested
                            in books except those of a very exceptional characterthe realistic
                            schooland these she thought ought not to be permitted except to private
                            subscribers, nevertheless she  cared for
                            no others. Art was fascinating-really great art. She loved the pictures
                            of Rembrandt, Frans Hals, Correggio, Titian. And with less
                            discrimination, and more from a sensual point of view the nudes of
                            Cabanel, Bouguereau and Gerome. To her there was reality in the works of
                            these men, lightened by great imagination. Mostly people interested her,
                            the vagaries of their minds, the idiosyncrasies of their characters,
                            their lies, their subterfuges, their pretences, their fears. She knew
                            that she was a dangerous woman and went softly, like a cat, wearing a
                            half-smile not unlike that seen on the lips of Monna Lisa, but she did
                            not worry about herself. She had too much courage. At the same time she
                            was tolerant, generous to a fault, charitable. When someone suggested
                            that she overdid the tolerance, she replied, "Why
                            shouldn't I? I live in such a magnificent glass
                            house."
                        The reason for her visit home on this occasion was that her husband had
                            practically deserted her for the time being. He was in Chicago for some
                            reasonprincipally because the atmosphere in New York was getting too hot
                            for him, as she suspected. Because she hated Chicago and was weary of
                            his company she refused to go with him. He was furious for he suspected
                            her of liaisons, but he could not help himself. She was indifferent.
                            Besides she had other resources than those he represented, or could get
                            them.
                        A certain wealthy Jew had been importuning her for years to get a divorce
                            in order that he might marry her. His car and his resources were at her
                            command but she condescended only the vaguest courtesies. It was within
                            the ordinary possibilities of the day for him to call her up and ask if
                            he could not come with his car. He had three. She waved most of this
                            aside indifferently. "What's the use?" was
                            her pet inquiry. Her husband was not without his car at times. She had
                            means to drive when she pleased, dress as she liked, and was invited to
                            many interesting outings. Her mother knew well of her peculiar attitude,
                            her marital troubles, her quarrels land her tendency to flirt. She did
                            her best to keep her in check, for she wanted to retain for her the
                            privilege of obtaining a divorce and marrying again, the next time
                            successfully. Norman Wilson, however, would not readily give her a legal
                            separation even though the preponderance of evidence was against him
                            and, if she compromised herself, there would be no hope. She half
                            suspected that her daughter might already have compromised herself, but
                            she could not be sure. Carlotta was too subtle. Norman made open charges
                            in their  family quarrels, but they were
                            based largely on jealousy. He did not know for sure.
                        Carlotta Wilson had heard of Eugene. She did not know of him by
                            reputation, but her mother's guarded remarks in regard to him
                            and his presence, the fact that he was an artist, that he was sick and
                            working as a laborer for his health aroused her interest. She had
                            intended to spend the period of her husband's absence at
                            Narragansett with some friends, but before doing so she decided to come
                            home for a few days just to see for herself. Instinctively her mother
                            suspected curiosity on her part in regard to Eugene. She threw out the
                            remark that he might not stay long, in the hope that her daughter might
                            lose interest. His wife was coming back. Carlotta discerned this
                            oppositionthis desire to keep her away. She decided that she would
                            come.
                        "I don't know that I want to go to Narragansett just
                            now," she told her mother. "I'm tired. Norman
                            has just worn my nerves to a frazzle. I think I'll come up home
                            for a week or so."
                        "All right," said her mother, "but do be
                            careful how you act now. This Mr. Witla appears to be a very nice man
                            and he's happily married. Don't you go casting any
                            looks in his direction. If you do I won't let him stay here at
                            all."
                        "Oh, how you talk," replied Carlotta irritably.
                            "Do give me a little credit for something. I'm not
                            going up there to see him. I'm tired, I tell you. If you
                            don't want me to come I won't."
                        "It isn't that, I do want you. But you know how you
                            are. How do you ever expect to get free if you don't conduct
                            yourself circumspectly? You know that you"
                        "Oh, for heaven's sake, I hope you're not
                            going to start that old argument again," exclaimed Carlotta
                            defensively. "What's the use beginning on that?
                            We've been all over it a thousand times. I can't go
                            anywhere or do anything but what you want to fuss. Now I'm not
                            coming up there to do anything but rest. Why will you always start in to
                            spoil everything?"
                        "Well now, you know well enough, Carlotta" reiterated
                            her mother.
                        "Oh, chuck it. I'll not come. To hell with the house.
                            I'll go to Narragansett. You make me tired!"
                        Her mother looked at her tall daughter, graceful, handsome, her black
                            hair parted in rich folds, irritated and yet pleased with her force and
                            ability. If she would only be prudent and careful, what a figure she
                            might yet become! Her complexion was like old rose-tinted ivory, her
                            lips the color of dark raspberries, her 
                            eyes bluish grey, wide set, large, sympathetic, kindly. What a pity she
                            had not married some big, worthy man to begin with. To be tied up to
                            this gambler, even though they did live in Central Park West and had a
                            comparatively sumptuous apartment, was a wretched thing. Still it was
                            better than poverty or scandal, though if she did not take care of
                            herself both might ensue. She wanted her to come to Riverwood for she
                            liked her company, but she wanted her to behave herself. Perhaps Eugene
                            would save the day. He was certainly restrained enough in his manner and
                            remarks. She went back to Riverwood, and Carlotta, the quarrel smoothed
                            over, followed her.
                        Eugene did not see her during the day she arrived, for he was at work;
                            and she did not see him as he came in at night. He had on his old peaked
                            hat and carried his handsome leather lunch box jauntily in one hand. He
                            went to his room, bathed, dressed and then out on the porch to await the
                            call of the dinner gong. Mrs. Hibberdell was in her room on the second
                            floor and "Cousin Dave," as Carlotta called Simpson,
                            was in the back yard. It was a lovely twilight. He was in the midst of
                            deep thoughts about the beauty of the scene, his own loneliness, the
                            characters at the shop-work, Angela and what not, when the screen door
                            opened and she stepped out. She had on a short-sleeved house dress of
                            spotted blue silk with yellow lace set about the neck and the ends of
                            the sleeves. Her shapely figure, beautifully proportioned to her height,
                            was set in a smooth, close fitting corset. Her hair, laid in great
                            braids at the back, was caught in a brown spangled net. She carried
                            herself with thoughtfulness and simplicity, seeming naturally
                            indifferent.
                        Eugene rose. "I'm in your way, I think. Won't
                            you have this chair?"
                        "No, thanks. The one in the corner will do. But I might as well
                            introduce myself, since there isn't anyone here to do it.
                            I'm Mrs. Wilson, Mrs. Hibberdell's daughter.
                            You're Mr. Witla?"
                        "Yes, I answer to that," said Eugene, smiling. He was
                            not very much impressed at first. She seemed nice and he fancied
                            intelligenta little older than he would have preferred any woman to be
                            who was to interest him. She sat down and looked at the water. He took
                            his chair and held his peace. He was not even interested to talk to her.
                            She was nice to look at, however. Her presence lightened the scene for
                            him.
                        "I always like to come up here," she volunteered
                            finally. "It's so warm in the city these days. I
                            don't think many people know of this place. It's out
                            of the beaten track."
                        
                        "I enjoy it," said Eugene. "It's such
                            a rest for me. I don't know what I would have done if your
                            mother hadn't taken me in. It's rather hard to find
                            any place, doing what I am."
                        "You've taken a pretty strenuous way to get health, I
                            should say," she observed. "Day labor sounds rough to
                            me. Do you mind it?"
                        "Not at all. I like it. The work is interesting and not so very
                            hard. It's all so new to me, that's what makes it
                            easy. I like the idea of being a day laborer and associating with
                            laborers. It's only because I'm run down in health
                            that I worry. I don't like to be sick."
                        "It is bad," she replied, "but this will
                            probably put you on your feet. I think we're always inclined to
                            look on our present troubles as the worst. I know I am."
                        "Thanks for the consolation," he said.
                        She did not look at him and he rocked to and fro silently. Finally the
                            dinner gong struck. Mrs. Hibberdell came down stairs and they went
                            in.
                        The conversation at dinner turned on his work for a few moments and he
                            described accurately the personalities of John and Bill and Big John the
                            engineer, and little Suddsy and Harry Fornes, the blacksmith. Carlotta
                            listened attentively without appearing to, for everything about Eugene
                            seemed singular and exceptional to her. She liked his tall, spare body,
                            his lean hands, his dark hair and eyes. She liked the idea of his
                            dressing as a laboring man in the morning, working all day in the shop,
                            and yet appearing so neat and trim at dinner. He was easy in his manner,
                            apparently lethargic in his movements and yet she could feel a certain
                            swift force that filled the room. It was richer for his presence. She
                            understood at a glance that he was an artist, in all probability a good
                            one. He said nothing of that, avoided carefully all reference to his
                            art, and listened attentively. She felt though as if he were studying
                            her and everyone else, and it made her gayer. At the same time she had a
                            strong leaning toward him. "What an ideal man to be associated
                            with," was one of her repeated thoughts.
                        Although she was about the house for ten days and he met her after the
                            third morning not only at dinner, which was natural enough, but at
                            breakfast (which surprised him a little), he paid not so very much
                            attention to her. She was nice, very, but Eugene was thinking of another
                            type. He thought she was uncommonly pleasant and considerate and he
                            admired her style of dressing and her beauty, studying her with
                            interest, wondering what sort of a life she led, for from various bits
                            of conversation  he overheard not only at
                            table but at other times he judged she was fairly well to do. There was
                            an apartment in Central Park West, card parties, automobile parties,
                            theatre parties and a general sense of peopleacquaintances anyhow, who
                            were making money. He heard her tell of a mining engineer, Dr. Rowland;
                            of a successful coal-mining speculator, Gerald Woods; of a Mrs. Hale who
                            was heavily interested in copper mines and apparently very wealthy.
                            "It's a pity Norman couldn't connect with
                            something like that and make some real money," he heard her say
                            to her mother one evening. He understood that Norman was her husband and
                            that he probably would be back soon. So he kept his distanceinterested
                            and curious but hardly more.
                        Mrs. Wilson was not so easily baffled, however. A car appeared one
                            evening at the door immediately after dinner, a great red touring car,
                            and Mrs. Wilson announced easily, "We're going for a
                            little spin after dinner, Mr. Witla. Don't you want to come
                            along?"
                        Eugene had never ridden in an automobile at that time.
                            "I'd be very pleased," he said, for the
                            thought of a lonely evening in an empty house had sprung up when he saw
                            it appear.
                        There was a chauffeur in chargea gallant figure in a brown straw cap and
                            tan duster, but Mrs. Wilson manuvred for place.
                        "You sit with the driver, coz," she said to Simpson,
                            and when her mother stepped in she followed after, leaving Eugene the
                            place to the right of her.
                        "There must be a coat and cap in the locker," she said
                            to the chauffeur; "let Mr. Witla have it."
                        The latter extracted a spare linen coat and straw cap which Eugene put
                            on.
                        "I like automobiling, don't you?" she said to
                            Eugene good-naturedly. "It's so refreshing. If there
                            is any rest from care on this earth it's in traveling
                            fast."
                        "I've never ridden before," replied Eugene
                            simply. Something about the way he said it touched her. She felt sorry
                            for him because he appeared lonely and gloomy. His indifference to her
                            piqued her curiosity and irritated her pride. Why shouldn't he
                            take an interest in her? As they sped under leafy lanes, up hill and
                            down dale, she made out his face in the starlight. It was pale,
                            reflective, indifferent. "These deep thinkers!" she
                            chided him. "It's terrible to be a
                            philosopher." Eugene smiled.
                        When they reached home he went to his room as did all the others to
                            theirs. He stepped out into the hall a few minutes later to go to the
                            library for a book, and found that her door which  he had to pass was wide open. She was sitting back in a
                            Morris chair, her feet upon another chair, her skirts slightly drawn up
                            revealing a trim foot and ankle. She did not stir but looked up and
                            smiled winningly.
                        "Aren't you tired enough to sleep?" he
                            asked.
                        "Not quite yet," she smiled.
                        He went down stairs and turning on a light in the library stood looking
                            at a row of books reading the titles. He heard a step and there she was
                            looking at the books also.
                        "Don't you want a bottle of beer?" she asked.
                            "I think there is some in the ice box. I forgot that you might
                            be thirsty."
                        "I really don't care," he said.
                            "I'm not much for drinks of any kind."
                        "That's not very sociable," she laughed.
                        "Let's have the beer then," he said.
                        She threw herself back languidly in one of the big dining room chairs
                            when she had brought the drinks and some Swiss cheese and crackers, and
                            said: "I think you'll find some cigarettes on the
                            table in the corner if you like."
                        He struck her a match and she puffed her cigarette comfortably.
                            "I suppose you find it lonely up here away from all your
                            friends and companions," she volunteered.
                        "Oh, I've been sick so long I scarcely know whether I
                            have any."
                        He described some of his imaginary ailments and experiences and she
                            listened to him attentively. When the beer was gone she asked him if he
                            would have more but he said no. After a time because he stirred wearily,
                            she got up.
                        "Your mother will think we're running some sort of a
                            midnight game down here," he volunteered.
                        "Mother can't hear," she said. "Her
                            room is on the third floor and besides she doesn't hear very
                            well. Dave don't mind. He knows me well enough by now to know
                            that I do as I please."
                        She stood closer to Eugene but still he did not see. When he moved away
                            she put out the lights and followed him to the stairs.
                        "He's either the most bashful or the most indifferent
                            of men," she thought, but she said softly,
                            "Good-night. Pleasant dreams to you," and went her
                            way.
                        Eugene thought of her now as a good fellow, a little gay for a married
                            woman, but probably circumspect withal. She was simply being nice to
                            him. All this was simply because, as yet, he was not very much
                            interested.
                        
                        There were other incidents. One morning he passed her door. Her mother
                            had already gone down to breakfast and there was the spectacle of a
                            smooth, shapely arm and shoulder quite bare to his gaze as she lay on
                            her pillow apparently unconscious that her door was open. It thrilled
                            him as something sensuously beautiful for it was a perfect arm. Another
                            time he saw her of an evening just before dinner buttoning her shoes.
                            Her dress was pulled three-quarters of the way to her knees and her
                            shoulders and arms were bare, for she was still in her corset and short
                            skirts. She seemed not to know that he was near. One night after dinner
                            he started to whistle something and she went to the piano to keep him
                            company. Another time he hummed on the porch and she started the same
                            song, singing with him. He drew his chair near the window where there
                            was a couch after her mother had retired for the night, and she came and
                            threw herself on it. "You don't mind if I lie
                            here?" she said, "I'm tired
                            tonight."
                        "Not at all. I'm glad of your company. I'm
                            lonely."
                        She lay and stared at him, smiling. He hummed and she sang. "Let
                            me see your palm," she said, "I want to learn
                            something." He held it out. She fingered it temptingly. Even
                            this did not wake him.
                        She left for five days because of some necessity in connection with her
                            engagements and when she returned he was glad to see her. He had been
                            lonesome, and he knew now that she made the house gayer. He greeted her
                            genially.
                        "I'm glad to see you back," he said.
                        "Are you really?" she replied. "I
                            don't believe it."
                        "Why not?" he asked.
                        "Oh, signs, omens and portents. You don't like women
                            very well I fancy."
                        "Don't I!"
                        "No, I think not," she replied.
                        She was charming in a soft grayish green satin. He noticed that her neck
                            was beautiful and that her hair looped itself gracefully upon the back
                            of it. Her nose was straight and fine, sensitive because of its thin
                            partitioning walls. He followed her into the library and they went out
                            on the porch. Presently he returnedit was ten o'clockand she
                            came also. Davis had gone to his room, Mrs. Hibberdell to hers.
                        "I think I'll read," he said, aimlessly.
                        "Why anything like that?" she jested. "Never
                            read when you can do anything else."
                        "What else can I do?"
                        
                        "Oh, lots of things. Play cards, tell fortunes, read palms,
                            drink beer" She looked at him wilfully.
                        He went to his favorite chair near the window, side by side with the
                            window-seat couch. She came and threw herself on it.
                        "Be gallant and fix my pillows for me, will you?" she
                            asked.
                        "Of course I will," he said.
                        He took a pillow and raised her head, for she did not deign to move.
                        "Is that enough?" he inquired.
                        "One more."
                        He put his hand under the first pillow and lifted it up. She took hold of
                            his free hand to raise herself. When she had it she held it and laughed
                            a curious excited laugh. It came over him all at once, the full meaning
                            of all the things she had been doing. He dropped the pillow he was
                            holding and looked at her steadfastly. She relaxed her hold and leaned
                            back, languorous, smiling. He took her left hand, then her right and sat
                            down beside her. In a moment he slipped one arm under her waist and
                            bending over put his lips to hers. She twined her arms about his neck
                            tightly and hugged him close; then looking in his eyes she heaved a
                            great sigh.
                        "You love me, don't you?" he asked.
                        "I thought you never would," she sighed, and clasped
                            him to her again.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XXIII
                        THE form of Carlotta Wilson was perfect, her passion eager, her subtlety
                            a match for almost any situation. She had deliberately set out to win
                            Eugene because he was attractive to her and because, by his early
                            indifference, he had piqued her vanity and self-love. She liked him
                            though, liked every one of his characteristics, and was as proud of her
                            triumph as a child with a new toy. When he had finally slipped his arm
                            under her waist she had thrilled with a burning, vibrating thrill
                            throughout her frame and when she came to him it was with the eagerness
                            of one wild for his caresses. She threw herself on him, kissed him
                            sensuously scores of times, whispered her desire and her affection.
                            Eugene thought, now that he saw her through the medium of an awakened
                            passion, that he had never seen anything more lovely. For the time being
                            he forgot Frieda, Angela, his loneliness, the fact that he was working
                            in supposed prudent self-restraint to effect his recovery, and gave
                            himself up to the full enjoyment of this situation.
                        Carlotta was tireless in her attentions. Once she saw that he really
                            cared, or imagined he did, she dwelt in the atmosphere of her passion
                            and affection. There was not a moment that she was not with or thinking
                            of Eugene when either was possible. She lay in wait for him at every
                            turn, gave him every opportunity which her skill could command. She knew
                            the movements of her mother and cousin to the least fractioncould tell
                            exactly where they were, how long they were likely to remain, how long
                            it would take them to reach a certain door or spot from where they were
                            standing. Her step was noiseless, her motions and glances significant
                            and interpretative. For a month or thereabouts she guided Eugene through
                            the most perilous situations, keeping her arms about him to the last
                            possible moment, kissing him silently and swiftly at the most unexpected
                            times and in the most unexpected surroundings. Her weary languor, her
                            seeming indifference, disappeared, and she was very much aliveexcept in
                            the presence of others. There her old manner remained, intensified even,
                            for she was determined to throw a veil of darkness over her mother and
                            her cousin's eyes. She succeeded admirably for the time being,
                            for she lied to her mother out of the whole cloth, pretending that
                            Eugene was nice but a little  slow so far
                            as the ways of the world were concerned. "He may be a good
                            artist," she volunteered, "but he isn't very
                            much of a ladies' man. He hasn't the first trace of
                            gallantry."
                        Mrs. Hibberdell was glad. At least there would be no disturbance here.
                            She feared Carlotta, feared Eugene, but she saw no reason for complaint.
                            In her presence all was seemingly formal and at times almost distant.
                            She did not like to say to her daughter that she should not come to her
                            own home now that Eugene was here, and she did not like to tell him to
                            leave. Carlotta said she liked him fairly well, but that was nothing.
                            Any married woman might do that. Yet under her very eyes was going
                            forward the most disconcerting license. She would have been astounded if
                            she had known the manner in which the bath, Carlotta's chamber
                            and Eugene's room were being used. The hour never struck when
                            they were beyond surveillance but what they were together.
                        Eugene grew very indifferent in the matter of his work. From getting to
                            the point where he was enjoying it because he looked upon it as a form
                            of exercise which was benefiting him, and feeling that he might not have
                            to work indefinitely if he kept up physical rehabilitation at this pace,
                            he grew languid about it and moody over the time he had to give to it.
                            Carlotta had the privilege of a certain automobile and besides she could
                            afford to hire one of her own. She began by suggesting that he meet her
                            at certain places and times for a little spin and this took him away
                            from his work a good portion of the time.
                        "You don't have to work every day, do you?"
                            she asked him one Sunday afternoon when they were alone. Simpson and
                            Mrs. Hibberdell had gone out for a walk and they were in her room on the
                            second floor. Her mother's was on the third.
                        "I don't have to," he said, "if I
                            don't mind losing the money they pay. It's fifteen
                            cents an hour and I need that. I'm not working at my regular
                            profession, you must remember."
                        "Oh, chuck that," she said. "What's
                            fifteen cents an hour? I'll give you ten times that to come and
                            be with me."
                        "No, you won't," he said. "You
                            won't give me anything. We won't go anywhere on that
                            basis."
                        "Oh, Eugene, how you talk. Why won't you?" she
                            asked. "I have lots of itat least lots more than you have just
                            now. And it might as well be spent this way as some other. It
                            won't be spent right anyhowthat is not for any exceptional
                            purpose. Why shouldn't you have some of it? You can pay it back
                            to me."
                        "I won't do it," said Eugene. "We
                            won't go anywhere on that basis. I'd rather go and
                            work. It's all right, though. I 
                            can sell a picture maybe. I expect to hear any day of something being
                            sold. What is it you want to do?"
                        "I want you to come automobiling with me tomorrow. Ma is going
                            over to her sister Ella's in Brooklyn. Has that shop of yours a
                            phone?"
                        "Sure it has. I don't think you'd better call
                            me up there though."
                        "Once wouldn't hurt."
                        "Well, perhaps not. But we'd better not begin that, or
                            at least not make a practice of it. These people are very strict. They
                            have to be."
                        "I know," said Carlotta. "I won't. I
                            was just thinking. I'll let you know. You know that river road
                            that runs on the top of the hill over there?"
                        "Yes."
                        "You be walking along there tomorrow at one o'clock and
                            I'll pick you up. You can come this once, can't
                            you?"
                        "Sure," said Eugene. "I can come. I was just
                            joking. I can get some money." He had still his hundred dollars
                            which he had not used when he first started looking for work. He had
                            been clinging to it grimly, but now in this lightened atmosphere he
                            thought he might spend some of it. He was going to get well. Everything
                            was pointing that way. His luck was with him.
                        "Well, I'll get the car. You don't mind riding
                            in that, do you?"
                        "No," he said. "I'll wear a good suit
                            to the shop and change over there."
                        She laughed gaily, for his scruples and simplicity amused her.
                        "You' re a princemy Prince Charming," she said
                            and she flung herself in his, lap. "Oh, you angel man,
                            heaven-born! I've been waiting for you I don't know
                            how long. Wise man! Prince Charming! I love you! I love you! I think
                            you're the nicest thing that ever was."
                        Eugene caressed her gently.
                        "And you're my wise girl. But we are no good, neither
                            you nor I. You're a wastrel and a stray. And II hesitate to
                            think what I am."
                        "What is a wastrel?" she asked.
                            "That's a new one on me. I don't
                            remember."
                        "Something or someone that can be thrown away as useless. A
                            stray is a pigeon that won't stay with the flock."
                        "That's me," said Carlotta, holding out her
                            firm, smooth arms before her and grinning mischievously. "I
                            won't stay with any flock. Nix for the flocks. I'd
                            rather be off with my wise man.  He is
                            nice enough for me. He's better nor nine or ten
                            flocks." She was using corrupt English for the joy of it.
                            "Just me and you, Prince Charming. Am I your lovely wastrel? Do
                            you like strays? Say you do. Listen! Do you like strays?"
                        Eugene had been turning his head away, saying "scandalous!
                            terrible, you're the worst ever," but she stopped his
                            mouth with her lips.
                        "Do you?"
                        "This wastrel, yes. This stray," he replied, smoothing
                            her cheek. "Ah, you're lovely, Carlotta,
                            you're beautiful. What a wonderful woman you are."
                        She gave herself to him completely.
                        "Whatever I am, I'm yours, wise man," she went
                            on. "You can have anything you want of me, do anything you
                            please with me. You're like an opiate to me, Eugene, sweet! You
                            stop my mouth and close my eyes and seal my ears. You make me forget
                            everything I suppose I might think now and then but I don't
                            want to. I don't want to! And I don't care. I wish you
                            were single. I wish I were free. I wish we had an island somewhere
                            together. Oh, hell! Life is a wearisome tangle, isn't it? `Take
                            the cash and let the credit go.'"
                        By this time Carlotta had heard enough of Eugene's life to
                            understand what his present condition was. She knew he was sick though
                            not exactly why. She thought it was due to overwork. She knew he was out
                            of funds except for certain pictures he had on sale, but that he would
                            regain his art ability and reestablish himself she did not doubt. She
                            knew something of Angela and thought it was all right that she should be
                            away from him, but now she wished the separation might be permanent. She
                            went into the city and asking about at various art stores learned
                            something of Eugene's art history and his great promise. It
                            made him all the more fascinating in her eyes. One of his pictures on
                            exhibition at Pottle Frres was bought by her after a little while and
                            the money sent to Eugene, for she had learned from his how these
                            pictures, any pictures, were exhibited on sale and the painter paid,
                            minus the commission, when the sale was made. She took good care to make
                            it clear to the manager at Pottle Frres that she was doing this so that
                            Eugene could have the money and saw to it that the check reached him
                            promptly. If Eugene had been alone this check of three hundred dollars
                            would have served to bring Angela to him. As it was it gave him funds to
                            disport himself with in her company. He did not know that she had been
                            the means of his getting it, or to whom the picture had been sold. A
                            fictitious name was given. This  sale
                            somewhat restored Eugene's faith in his future, for if one of
                            his pictures would sell so late in the day for this price, others
                            would.
                        There were days thereafter of the most curious composition. In the
                            morning he would leave dressed in his old working suit and carrying his
                            lunch box, Carlotta waving him a farewell from her window, or, if he had
                            an engagement outside with carlotta, wearing a good suit, and trusting
                            to his overalls and jumper to protect it, working all day with John and
                            Bill, or Malachi Dempsey and Josephfor there was rivalry between these
                            two groups as to which should have his companyor leaving the shop early
                            and riding with her a part of the time, coming home at night to be
                            greeted by Carlotta as though she had not seen him at all. She watched
                            for his coming as patiently as a wife and was as eager to see if there
                            was anything she could do for him. In the shop Malachi and Joseph or
                            John and Bill and sometimes some of the carpenters up stairs would
                            complain of a rush of work in order that they might have his assistance
                            or presence. Malachi and Joseph could always enter the complaint that
                            they were in danger of being hampered by shavings, for the latter were
                            constantly piling up in great heaps, beautiful shavings of ash and
                            yellow pine and walnut which smelled like resin and frankincense and had
                            the shape of girl's curls or dry breakfast food, or rich damp
                            sawdust. Or John and Bill would complain that they were being overworked
                            and needed someone in the car to receive. Even Big John, the engineer,
                            tried to figure out some scheme by which he could utilize Eugene as a
                            fireman, but that was impossible; there was no call for any such person.
                            The foreman understood well enough what the point was but said nothing,
                            placing Eugene with the particular group which seemed to need him most.
                            Eugene was genial enough about the matter. Wherever he was was right. He
                            liked to be in the cars or on a lumber pile or in the plane room. He
                            also liked to stand and talk to Big John or Harry Fornes, his basket
                            under his arm"kidding," as he called it. His progress
                            to and fro was marked by endless quips and jests and he was never
                            weary.
                        When his work was done at night he would hurry home, following the right
                            bank of the little stream until he reached a path which led up to the
                            street whereon was the Hibberdell house. On his way he would sometimes
                            stop and study the water, its peaceful current bearing an occasional
                            stick or straw upon its bosom, and contrasting the seeming peace of its
                            movement with his own troubled life. The subtlety of nature as expressed
                            in water appealed to him. The difference between this idyllic  stream bank and his shop and all who were
                            of it, struck him forcefully. Malachi Dempsey had only the vaguest
                            conception of the beauty of nature. Jack Stix was scarcely more artistic
                            than the raw piles of lumber with which he dealt. Big John had no
                            knowledge of the rich emotions of love or of beauty which troubled
                            Eugene's brain. They lived on another plane, apparently.
                        And at the other end of the stream awaiting him was Carlotta, graceful,
                            sophisticated, eager in her regard for him, lukewarm in her interest in
                            morals, sybaritic in her moods, representing in a way a world which
                            lived upon the fruits of this exploited toil and caring nothing about
                            it. If he said anything to Carlotta about the condition of Joseph Mews,
                            who carried bundles of wood home to his sister of an evening to help
                            save the expense of fuel, she merely smiled. If he talked of the poverty
                            of the masses she said, "Don't be doleful,
                            Eugene." She wanted to talk of art and luxury and love, or
                            think of them at least. Her love of the beauty of nature was keen. There
                            were certain inns they could reach by automobile where they could sit
                            and dine and drink a bottle of wine or a pitcher of claret cup, and here
                            she would muse on what they would do if they were only free. Angela was
                            frequently in Carlotta's thoughts, persistently in
                            Eugene's, for he could not help feeling that he was doing her a
                            rank injustice.
                        She had been so patient and affectionate all this long time past, had
                            tended him as a mother, waited on him as a servant. Only recently he had
                            been writing in most affectionate terms, wishing she were with him. Now
                            all that was dead again. It was hard work to write. Everything he said
                            seemed a lie and he did not want to say it. He hated to pretend. Still,
                            if he did not write Angela would be in a state of mortal agony, he
                            thought, and would shortly come to look him up. It was only by writing,
                            protesting his affection, explaining why in his judgment it was
                            unadvisable for her to come at present, that she could be made to stay
                            where she was. And now that he was so infatuated with Carlotta this
                            seemed very desirable. He did not delude himself that he would ever be
                            able to marry her. He knew that he could not get a divorce, there being
                            no grounds, and the injustice to Angela being such a bar to his
                            conscience; and as for Carlotta, her future was very uncertain. Norman
                            Wilson, for all that he disregarded her at times, did not want to give
                            her up. He was writing, threatening to come back to New York if she did
                            not come to him, though the fact that she was in her mother's
                            home, where he considered her safe, was some consolation to him. Angela
                            was begging Eugene to let her come. They would get along,  she argued, on whatever he got and he
                            would be better off with her than alone. She pictured him living in some
                            uncomfortable boarding house where he was not half attended to and
                            intensely lonely. Her return meant the leaving of this lovely homefor
                            Mrs. Hibberdell had indicated that she would not like to keep him and
                            his wifeand so the end of this perfect romance with Carlotta. An end to
                            lovely country inns and summer balconies where they were dining
                            together! An end to swift tours in her automobile, which she guided
                            skilfully herself, avoiding the presence of a chauffeur. An end to
                            lovely trysts under trees and by pretty streams where he kissed and
                            fondled her and where she lingered joyously in his arms!
                        "If ma could only see us now," she would jest; or,
                        "Do you suppose Bill and John would recognize you here if they
                            saw you?"
                        Once she said: "This is better than the engine room,
                            isn't it?" "You're a bad lot,
                            Carlotta," he would declare, and then would come to her lips
                            the enigmatic smile of Monna Lisa.
                        "You like bad lots, don't you? Strays make fine
                            hunting."
                        In her own philosophy she was taking the cash and letting the credit
                            go.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XXIV
                        DAYS like this could not go on forever. The seed of their destruction was
                            in their beginning. Eugene was sad. He used to show his mood at times
                            and if she asked him what was the matter, would say: "We
                            can't keep this thing up much longer. It must come to an end
                            soon."
                        "You're certainly a gloomy philosopher,
                            Genie," she would say, reproachfully, for she had hopes that it
                            could be made to last a long while under any circumstances. Eugene had
                            the feeling that no pretence would escape Angela's psychology.
                            She was too sensitive to his unspoken moods and feelings. She would come
                            soon, willynilly, and then all this would be ended. As a matter of fact
                            several things combined to bring about change and conclusion.
                        For one thing Mrs. Hibberdell had been more and more impressed with the
                            fact that Carlotta was not merely content to stay but that once having
                            come she was fairly determined to remain. She had her own apartment in
                            the city, ostensibly closed for the summer, for she had protested that
                            it was too hot to live in town when she first proposed going to
                            Narragansett. After seeing Eugene she figured out a possible use for it,
                            though that use was dangerous, for Norman Wilson might return at any
                            time. Nevertheless, they had been there on occasionsthis with the double
                            effect of deceiving her mother and entertaining Eugene. If she could
                            remain away from Riverwood a percentage of the time, she argued with
                            Eugene, it would make her stay less suspicious and would not jeopardize
                            their joy in companionship. So she did this. At the same time she could
                            not stay away from Riverwood entirely, for Eugene was there necessarily
                            morning and evening.
                        Nevertheless, toward the end of August Mrs. Hibberdell was growing
                            suspicious. She had seen an automobile entering Central Park once when
                            Carlotta had phoned her that she had a sick headache and could not come
                            up. It looked to Mrs. Hibberdell, who had gone down town shopping on the
                            strength of this ailment and who had phoned Carlotta that she was going
                            to call at her apartment in the evening, as though Eugene and Carlotta
                            were in it. Eugene had gone to work that morning, which made it seem
                            doubtful, but it certainly looked very much like him. Still she did not
                            feel sure it was he or Carlotta either. When  she came to the latter's apartment Carlotta was
                            there, feeling better, but stating that she had not been out. Mrs.
                            Hibberdell concluded thoughtfully that she must have been mistaken.
                        Her own room was on the third floor, and several times after all had
                            retired and she had come down to the kitchen or dining room or library
                            for something, she had heard a peculiar noise as of someone walking
                            lightly. She thought it was fancy on her part, for invariably when she
                            reached the second floor all was dark and still. Nevertheless she
                            wondered whether Eugene and Carlotta could be visiting. Twice, between
                            breakfast and the time Eugene departed, she thought she heard Eugene and
                            Carlotta whispering on the second floor, but there was no proof.
                            Carlotta's readiness to rise for breakfast at six-thirty in
                            order to be at the same table with Eugene was peculiar, and her giving
                            up Narragansett for Riverwood was most significant. It remained for one
                            real discovery to resolve all her suspicions into the substance of fact
                            and convict Carlotta of being the most conscienceless of deceivers.
                        It came about in this fashion. One Sunday morning Davis and Mrs.
                            Hibberdell had decided to go automobiling. Eugene and Carlotta were
                            invited but had refused, for Carlotta on hearing the discussion several
                            days before had warned Eugene and planned to have the day for herself
                            and her lover. She cautioned him to pretend the need of making visits
                            down town. As for herself she had said she would go, but on the day in
                            question did not feel well enough. Davis and Mrs. Hibberdell departed,
                            their destination being Long Island. It was an all day tour. After an
                            hour their machine broke, however, and after sitting in it two hours
                            waiting for repairslong enough to spoil their plansthey came back by
                            trolley. Eugene had not gone down town. He was not even dressed when the
                            door opened on the ground floor and Mrs. Hibberdell came in.
                        "Oh, Carlotta," she called, standing at the foot of the
                            stairs and expecting Carlotta to appear from her own room or a sort of
                            lounging and sewing room which occupied the front of the house on the
                            second floor and where she frequently stayed. Carlotta unfortunately was
                            with Eugene and the door to this room was commanded from where Mrs.
                            Hibberdell was standing. She did not dare to answer.
                        "Oh, Carlotta," called her mother again.
                        The latter's first thought was to go back in the kitchen and
                            look there, but on second thoughts she ascended the steps and started
                            for the sewing room. Carlotta thought she had entered. In an instant she
                            had seized the opportunity to step into the bat-
                             which was next to Eugene's room
                            but she was scarcely quick enough. Her mother had not gone into the
                            roomonly opened the door and looked in. She did not see Carlotta step
                            out of Eugene's room, but she did see her entering the bath, in
                            negligee, and she could scarcely have come from anywhere else. Her own
                            door which was between Eugene's room and the sewing room was
                            ten feet away. It did not seem possible that she could have come from
                            there: she had not had time enough, and anyhow why had she not
                            answered?
                        The first impulse of Mrs. Hibberdell was to call to her. Her second
                            thought was to let the ruse seem successful. She was convinced that
                            Eugene was in his room, and a few moments later a monitory cough on his
                            partcoughed for a purposeconvinced her.
                        "Are you in the bath, Carlotta?" she called quietly,
                            after looking into Carlotta's room.
                        "Yes," came the reply, easily enough now. "Did
                            your machine break down?"
                        A few remarks were exchanged through the door and then Mrs. Hibberdell
                            went to her room. She thought over the situation steadily for it greatly
                            irritated her. It was not the same as the discovered irregularity of a
                            trusted and virtuous daughter. Carlotta had not been led astray. She was
                            a grown woman, married, experienced. In every way she knew as much about
                            life as her motherin some respects more. The difference between them was
                            in ethical standards and the policy that aligns itself with common
                            sense, decency, self preservation, as against its opposite. Carlotta had
                            so much to look out for. Her future was in her own hands. Besides,
                            Eugene's future, his wife's rights and interests, her
                            mother's home, her mother's standards, were things
                            which she ought to respectought to want to respect. To find her lying as
                            she had been this long time, pretending indifference, pretending
                            absence, and no doubt associating with Eugene all the while, was
                            disgusting. She was very angry, not so much at Eugene, though her
                            respect for him was greatly lowered, artist though he was, as at
                            Carlotta. She ought to do better. She ought to be ashamed not to guard
                            herself against a man like Eugene, instead of luring him on. It was
                            Carlotta's fault, and she determined to reproach her bitterly
                            and to break up this wretched alliance at once.
                        There was an intense and bitter quarrel the next morning, for Mrs.
                            Hibberdell decided to hold her peace until Eugene and Davis should be
                            out of the house. She wanted to have this out with Carlotta alone, and
                            the clash came shortly after breakfast 
                            when both the others had left. Carlotta had already warned Eugene that
                            something might happen on account of this, but under no circumstances
                            was he to admit anything unless she told him to. The maid was in the
                            kitchen out of ear shot, and Mrs. Hibberdell and Carlotta were in the
                            library when the opening gun was fired. In a way Carlotta was prepared,
                            for she fancied her mother might have seen other thingswhat or how much
                            she could not guess. She was not without the dignity of a Circe, for she
                            had been through scenes like this before. Her own husband had charged
                            her with infidelity more than once, and she had been threatened with
                            physical violence by him. Her face was pale but calm.
                        "Now, Carlotta," observed her mother vigorously,
                            "I saw what was going on yesterday morning when I came home.
                            You were in Mr. Witla's room with your clothes off. I saw you
                            come out. Please don't deny it. I saw you come out.
                            Aren't you ashamed of yourself? How can you treat me that way
                            after your promise not to do anything out of the way here?"
                        "You didn't see me come out of his room and I
                            wasn't in there," said Carlotta brazenly. Her face was
                            pale, but she was giving a fair imitation of righteous surprise.
                            "Why do you make any such statement as that?"
                        "Why, Carlotta Hibberdell, how dare you contradict me; how dare
                            you lie! You came out of that room. You know you did. You know that you
                            were in there. You know that I saw you. I should think you would be
                            ashamed of yourself, slipping about this house like a street girl and
                            your own mother in it. Aren't you ashamed of yourself? Have you
                            no sense of decency left? Oh, Carlotta, I know you are bad, but why will
                            you come here to be so? Why couldn't you let this man alone? He
                            was doing well enough. It's a shame, the thing you have done.
                            It's an outrage. Mrs. Witla ought to come here and whip you
                            within an inch of your life."
                        "Oh, how you talk," said Carlotta, irritably.
                            "You make me tired. You didn't see me. It's
                            the old storysuspicion. You're always full of suspicion. You
                            didn't see me and I wasn't in there. Why do you start
                            a fuss for nothing!"
                        "A fuss! A fuss for nothingthe idea, you evil woman. A fuss for
                            nothing. How can you talk that way! I can hardly believe my senses. I
                            can hardly believe you would dare to brazenly face me in this way. I saw
                            you and now you deny it."
                        Mrs. Hibberdell had not seen her, but she was convinced that what she
                            said was true.
                        Carlotta brazened it out. "You didn't," she
                            insisted.
                        
                        Mrs. Hibberdell stared. The effrontery of it took her breath away.
                        "Carlotta," she exclaimed, "I honestly think
                            you are the worst woman in the world. I can't think of you as
                            my daughteryou are too brazen. You're the worst because
                            you're calculating, You know what you're doing, and
                            you are deliberate in you method of doing it. You're
                            evil-minded. You know exactly what you want and you set out deliberately
                            to get it. You have done it in this case. You started out to get this
                            man and you have succeeded in doing it. You have no sense of shame, no
                            pride, no honesty, no honor, no respect for me or anyone else. You do
                            not love this man. You know you don't. If you did you would
                            never degrade him and yourself and me as you have done. You've
                            simply indulged in another vile relationship because you wanted to, and
                            now when you're caught you brazen it out. You're evil,
                            Carlotta. You're as low as a woman can be, even if you are my
                            daughter."
                        "It isn't true," said Carlotta.
                            "You're just talking to hear yourself
                            talk."
                        "It is true and you know it," reproved her mother.
                            "You talk about Norman. He never did a thing worse in his life
                            than you have done. He may be a gambler and immoral and inconsiderate
                            and selfish. What are you? Can you stand there and tell me
                            you're any better? Pah! If you only had a sense of shame
                            something could be done for you, but you haven't any.
                            You're just vile, that's all."
                        "How you talk, ma," she observed, calmly; "how
                            you carry on, and that on a mere suspicion. You didn't see me.
                            I might have been in there but you didn't see me and I
                            wasn't. You're making a storm just because you want
                            to. I like Mr. Witla. I think he's very nice, but I'm
                            not interested in him and I haven't done anything to harm him.
                            You can turn him out if you want to. That's none of my affairs.
                            You're simply raging about as usual without any facts to go
                            upon."
                        Carlotta stared at her mother, thinking. She was not greatly disturbed.
                            It was pretty bad, no doubt of that, but she was not thinking so much of
                            that as of the folly of being found out. Her mother knew for certain,
                            though she would not admit to her that she knew. Now all this fine
                            summer romance would endthe pleasant convenience of it, anyhow. Eugene
                            would be put to the trouble of moving. Her mother might say something
                            disagreeable to him. Besides, she knew she was better than Norman
                            because she did not associate with the same evil type of people. She was
                            not coarse, she was not thick-witted, she was  not cruel, she was not a user of vile language or an
                            expresser of vile ideas, and Norman was at times. She might lie and she
                            might be calculating, but not to anyone's disadvantageshe was
                            simply passion drivenboldly so and only toward love or romance.
                            "Am I evil?" she often asked herself. Her mother said
                            she was evil. Well, she was in one way; but her mother was angry, that
                            was all. She did not mean all she said. She would come round. Still
                            Carlotta did not propose to admit the truth of her mother's
                            charges or to go through this situation without some argument. There
                            were charges which her mother was making which were untenablepoints
                            which were inexcusable.
                        "Carlotta Hibberdell, you're the most brazen creature I
                            ever knew! You're a terrible liar. How can you stand there and
                            look me in the eye and say that, when you know that I know? Why lie in
                            addition to everything else? Oh! Carlotta, the shame of it. If you only
                            had some sense of honor! How can you lie like that? How can
                            you?"
                        "I'm not lying," declared Carlotta,
                            "and I wish you would quit fussing. You didn't see me.
                            You know you didn't. I came out of my room and you were in the
                            front room. Why do you say you weren't. You didn't see
                            me. Supposing I am a liar. I'm your daughter. I may be vile. I
                            didn't make myself so. Certainly I'm not in this
                            instance. Whatever I am I come by it honestly. My life hasn't
                            been a bed of roses. Why do you start a silly fight? You
                            haven't a thing to go on except suspicion and now you want to
                            raise a row. I don't care what you think of me. I'm
                            not guilty in this case and you can think what you please. You ought to
                            be ashamed to charge me with something of which you are not
                            sure."
                        She walked to the window and stared out. Her mother shook her head. Such
                            effrontery was beyond her. It was like her daughter, though. She took
                            after her father and herself. Both were self-willed and determined when
                            aroused. At the same time she was sorry for her girl, for Carlotto was a
                            capable woman in her way and very much dissatisfied with life.
                        "I should think you would be ashamed of yourself, Carlotta,
                            whether you admit it to me or not," she went on. "The
                            truth is the truth and it must hurt you a little. You were in that room.
                            We won't argue that, though. You set out deliberately to do
                            this and you have done it. Now what I have to say is this: You are going
                            back to your apartment today, and Mr. Witla is going to leave here as
                            quick as he can get a room somewhere else. You're not going to
                            continue this wretched relationship any longer if I can help it.
                            I'm going to write to his wife and to  Norman too, if I can't do anything else to break
                            this up. You're going to let this man alone. You have no right
                            to come between him and Mrs. Witla. It's an outrage, and no one
                            but a vile, conscienceless woman would do it. I'm not going to
                            say anything to him now, but he's going to leave here and so
                            are you. When it's all over you can come back if you want to.
                            I'm ashamed for you. I'm ashamed for myself. If it
                            hadn't been for my own feelings and those of Davis, I would
                            have ordered you both out of the house yesterday and you know it.
                            It's consideration for myself that's made me smooth it
                            over as much as I have. He, the vile thing, after all the courtesy I
                            have shown him. Still I don't blame him as much as I do you,
                            for he would never have looked at you if you hadn't made him.
                            My own daughter! My own house! Tch! Tch! Tch!"
                        There was more conversationthat fulgurous, coruscating reiteration of
                            charges. Eugene was no good. Carlotta was vile. Mrs. Hibberdell
                            wouldn't have believed it possible if she hadn't seen
                            it with her own eyes. She was going to tell Norman if Carlotta
                            didn't reformover and over, one threat after another.
                        "Well," she said, finally, "you're
                            going to get your things ready and go into the city this afternoon.
                            I'm not going to have you here another day."
                        "No I'm not," said Carlotta boldly, pondering
                            over all that had been said. It was a terrible ordeal, but she would not
                            go today. "I'm going in the morning. I'm not
                            going to pack that fast. It's too late. I'm not going
                            to be ordered out of here like a servant."
                        Her mother groaned, but she gave in. Carlotta could not be made to do
                            anything she did not want to do. She went to her room, and presently
                            Mrs. Hibberdell heard her singing. She shook her head. Such a
                            personality. No wonder Eugene succumbed to her blandishments. What man
                            wouldn't?
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XXV
                        THE sequel of this scene was not to be waited for. At dinner time Mrs.
                            Hibberdell announced in the presence of Carlotta and Davis that the
                            house was going to be closed up for the present, and very quickly. She
                            and Carlotta were going to Narragansett for the month of September and a
                            part of October. Eugene, having been forewarned by Carlotta, took it
                            with a show of polite surprise. He was sorry. He had spent such a
                            pleasant time here. Mrs. Hibberdell could not be sure whether Carlotta
                            had told him or not, he seemed so innocent, but she assumed that she had
                            and that he like Carlotta was "putting on." She had
                            informed Davis that for reasons of her own she wanted to do this. He
                            suspected what they were, for he had seen signs and slight
                            demonstrations which convinced him that Carlotta and Eugene had reached
                            an understanding. He did not consider it anything very much amiss, for
                            Carlotta was a woman of the world, her own boss and a "good
                            fellow." She had always been nice to him. He did not want to
                            put any obstacles in her way. In addition, he liked Eugene. Once he had
                            said to Carlotta jestingly, "Well, his arms are almost as long
                            as Norman'snot quite maybe."
                        "You go to the devil," was her polite reply.
                        Tonight a storm came up, a brilliant, flashing summer storm. Eugene went
                            out on the porch to watch it. Carlotta came also.
                        "Well, wise man," she said, as the thunder rolled.
                            "It's all over up here. Don't let on.
                            I'll see you wherever you go, but this was so nice. It was fine
                            to have you near me. Don't get blue, will you? She says she may
                            write your wife, but I don't think she will. If she thinks
                            I'm behaving, she won't. I'll try and fool
                            her. It's too bad, though. I'm crazy about you,
                            Genie."
                        Now that he was in danger of losing Carlotta, her beauty took on a
                            special significance for Eugene. He had come into such close contact
                            with her, had seen her under such varied conditions, that he had come to
                            feel a profound admiration for not only her beauty but her intellect and
                            ability as well. One of his weaknesses was that he was inclined to see
                            much more in those he admired than was really there. He endowed them
                            with the romance of his own moodssaw in them the ability to do things
                            which he only could do. In doing this of course he flattered  their vanity, aroused their
                            self-confidence, made them feel themselves the possessors of latent
                            powers and forces which before him they had only dreamed of. Margaret,
                            Ruby, Angela, Christina and Carlotta had all gained this feeling from
                            him. They had a better opinion of themselves for having known him. Now
                            as he looked at Carlotta he was intensely sorry, for she was so calm, so
                            affable, so seemingly efficient and self reliant, and such a comfort to
                            him in these days.
                        "Circe!" he said, "this is too bad.
                            I'm sorry. I'm going to hate to lose
                            you."
                        "You won't lose me," she replied.
                            "You can't. I won't let you. I've
                            found you now and I'm going to keep you. This don't
                            mean anything. We can find places to meet. Get a place where they have a
                            phone if you can. When do you think you'll go?"
                        "Right away," said Eugene. "I'll take
                            tomorrow morning off and look."
                        "Poor Eugene," she said sympathetically.
                            "It's too bad. Never mind though. Everything will come
                            out right."
                        She was still not counting on Angela. She thought that even if Angela
                            came back, as Eugene told her she would soon, a joint arrangement might
                            possibly be made. Angela could be here, but she, Carlotta, could share
                            Eugene in some way. She thought she would rather live with him than any
                            other man on earth.
                        It was only about noon the next morning when Eugene had found another
                            room, for, in living here so long, he had thought of several methods by
                            which he might have obtained a room in the first place. There was
                            another church, a library, the postmaster and the ticket agent at Speonk
                            who lived in the village. He went first to the postmaster and learned of
                            two families, one the home of a civil engineer, where he might be
                            welcome, and it was here that he eventually settled. The view was not
                            quite so attractive, but it was charming, and he had a good room and
                            good meals. He told them that he might not stay long, for his wife was
                            coming back soon. The letters from Angela were becoming most
                            importunate.
                        He gathered up his belongings at Mrs. Hibberdell's and took a
                            polite departure. After he was gone Mrs. Hibberdell of course changed
                            her mind, and Carlotta returned to her apartment in New York. She
                            communicated with Eugene not only by phone but by special delivery, and
                            had him meet her at a convenient inn the second evening of his
                            departure. She was planning some sort of a separate apartment for them,
                            when Eugene informed her that Angela was already on her way to New York
                            and that nothing could be done at present.
                        
                        Since Eugene had left her at Biloxi, Angela had spent a most miserable
                            period of seven months. She had been grieving her heart out, for she
                            imagined him to be most lonely, and at the same time she was regretful
                            that she had ever left him. She might as well have been with him. She
                            figured afterward that she might have borrowed several hundred dollars
                            from one of her brothers, and carried out the fight for his mental
                            recovery by his side. Once he had gone she fancied she might have made a
                            mistake matrimonially, for he was so impressionablebut his condition was
                            such that she did not deem him to be interested in anything save his
                            recovery. Besides, his attitude toward her of late had been so
                            affectionate and in a way dependent. All her letters since he had left
                            had been most tender, speaking of his sorrow at this necessary absence
                            and hoping that the time would soon come when they could be together.
                            The fact that he was lonely finally decided her and she wrote that she
                            was coming whether he wanted her to or not.
                        Her arrival would have made little difference except that by now he was
                            thoroughly weaned away from her again, had obtained a new ideal and was
                            interested only to see and be with Carlotta. The latter's easy
                            financial state, her nice clothes, her familiarity with comfortable and
                            luxurious thingsbetter things than Eugene had ever dreamed of
                            enjoyingher use of the automobile, her freedom in the matter of
                            expenditurestaking the purchase of champagne and expensive meals as a
                            matter of coursedazzled and fascinated him. It was rather an astonishing
                            thing, he thought, to have so fine a woman fall in love with him.
                            Besides, her tolerance, her indifference to petty conventions, her
                            knowledge of life and literature and artset her in marked contrast to
                            Angela, and in all ways she seemed rare and forceful to him. He wished
                            from his heart that he could be free and could have her.
                        Into this peculiar situation Angela precipitated herself one bright
                            Saturday afternoon in September. She was dying to see Eugene again. Full
                            of grave thoughts for his future, she had come to share it whatever it
                            might be. Her one idea was that he was sick and depressed and lonely.
                            None of his letters had been cheerful or optimistic, for of course he
                            did not dare to confess the pleasure he was having in
                            Carlotta's company. In order to keep her away he had to pretend
                            that lack of funds made it inadmissible for her to be here. The fact
                            that he was spending, and by the time she arrived had spent, nearly the
                            whole of the three hundred dollars his picture sold to Carlotta had
                            brought him, had troubled himnot unduly, of course, or he would not  have done it. He had qualms of
                            conscience, severe ones, but they passed with the presence of Carlotta
                            or the reading of his letters from Angela.
                        "I don't know what's the matter with
                            me," he said to himself from time to time. "I guess
                            I'm no good." He thought it was a blessing that the
                            world could not see him as he was.
                        One of the particular weaknesses of Eugene's which should be set
                            forth here and which will help to illuminate the bases of his conduct
                            was that he was troubled with a dual point of viewa condition based upon
                            a peculiar power of analysisself-analysis in particular, which was
                            constantly permitting him to tear himself up by the roots in order to
                            see how he was getting along. He would daily and hourly when not
                            otherwise employed lift the veil from his inner mental processes as he
                            might lift the covering from a well, and peer into its depths. What he
                            saw was not very inviting and vastly disconcerting, a piece of machinery
                            that was not going as a true man should, clock fashion, and
                            corresponding in none of its moral characteristic to the recognized
                            standard of a man. He had concluded by now, from watching various
                            specimens, that sane men were honest, some inherently moral, some
                            regulated by a keen sense of duty, and occasionally all of these virtues
                            and others were bound up in one man. Angela's father was such
                            an one. M. Charles appeared to be another. He had concluded from his
                            association with Jerry Mathews, Philip Shotmeyer, Peter MacHugh and
                            Joseph Smite that they were all rather decent in respect to morals. He
                            had never seen them under temptation but he imagined they were. Such a
                            man as William Haverford, the Engineer of Maintenance of Way, and Henry
                            C. Litlebrown, the Division Engineer of this immense road, struck him as
                            men who must have stuck close to a sense of duty and the conventions of
                            the life they represented, working hard all the time, to have attained
                            the positions they had. All this whole railroad system which he was
                            watching closely from day to day from his little vantage point of
                            connection with it, seemed a clear illustration of the need of a sense
                            of duty and reliability. All of these men who worked for this company
                            had to be in good health, all had to appear at their posts on the tick
                            of the clock, all had to perform faithfully the duties assigned them, or
                            there would be disasters. Most of them had climbed by long, arduous
                            years of work to very modest positions of prominence, as conductors,
                            engineers, foremen, division superintendents. Others more gifted or more
                            blessed by fortune became division engineers, superintendents,
                            vice-presidents and presidents. They were all slow  climbers, rigid in their sense of duty, tireless in their
                            energy, exact, thoughtful. What was he?
                        He looked into the well of his being and there he saw nothing but shifty
                            and uncertain currents. It was very dark down there. He was not honest,
                            he said to himself, except in money mattershe often wondered why. He was
                            not truthful. He was not moral. This love of beauty which haunted him
                            seemed much more important than anything else in the world, and his
                            pursuit of that seemed to fly in the face of everything else which was
                            established and important. He found that men everywhere did not think
                            much of a man who was crazy after women. They might joke about an
                            occasional lapse as an amiable vice or one which could be condoned, but
                            they wanted little to do with a man who was overpowered by it. There was
                            a case over in the railroad yard at Speonk recently which he had noted,
                            of a foreman who had left his wife and gone after some hoyden in White
                            Plains, and because of this offense he was promptly discharged. It
                            appeared, though, that before this he had occasionally had such lapses
                            and that each time he had been discharged, but had been subsequently
                            forgiven. This one weakness, and no other, had given him a bad
                            reputation among his fellow railroad menmuch as that a drunkard might
                            have. Big John Peters, the engineer, had expressed it aptly to Eugene
                            one day when he told him in confidence that "Ed Bowers would go
                            to hell for his hide," the latter being the local expression
                            for women. Everybody seemed to pity him, and the man seemed in a way to
                            pity himself. He had a hang-dog look when he was re-in-stated, and yet
                            everybody knew that apart from this he was a fairly competent foreman.
                            Still it was generally understood that he would never get anywhere.
                        From that Eugene argued to himself that a man who was cursed with this
                            peculiar vice could not get anywhere; that he, if he kept it up, would
                            not. It was like drinking and stealing, and the face of the world was
                            against it. Very frequently it went hand in hand with those
                            things"birds of a feather" he thought. Still he was
                            cursed with it, and he no more than Ed Bowers appeared to be able to
                            conquer it. At least he was yielding to it now as he had before. It
                            mattered not that the women he chose were exceptionally beautiful and
                            fascinating. They were women, and ought he to want them? He had one. He
                            had taken a solemn vow to love and cherish her, or at least had gone
                            through the formality of such a vow, and here he was running about with
                            Carlotta, as he had with Christina and Ruby before her. Was he not
                            always looking for some such  woman as
                            this? Certainly he was. Had he not far better be seeking for wealth,
                            distinction, a reputation for probity, chastity, impeccable moral honor?
                            Certainly he had. It was the way to distinction apparently, assuming the
                            talent, and here he was doing anything but take that way. Conscience was
                            his barrier, a conscience unmodified by cold self-interest. Shame upon
                            himself! Shame upon his weak-kneed disposition, not to be able to
                            recover from this illusion of beauty. Such were some of the thoughts
                            which his moments of introspection brought him.
                        On the other hand, there came over him that other phase of his dualitythe
                            ability to turn his terrible searchlight of intelligence which swept the
                            heavens and the deep as with a great white rayupon the other side of the
                            question. It revealed constantly the inexplicable subtleties and seeming
                            injustices of nature. He could not help seeing how the big fish fed upon
                            the little ones, the strong were constantly using the weak as pawns; the
                            thieves, the grafters, the murderers were sometimes allowed to prey on
                            society without let or hindrance. Good was not always rewardedfrequently
                            terribly ill-rewarded. Evil was seen to flourish beautifully at times.
                            It was all right to say that it would be punished, but would it?
                            Carlotta did not think so. She did not think the thing she was doing
                            with him was very evil. She had said to him over and over that it was an
                            open question, that he was troubled with an ingrowing conscience.
                            "I don't think it's so bad," she
                            once told him. "It depends somewhat on how you were
                            raised." There was a system apparently in society, but also
                            apparently it did not work very well. Only fools were held by religion,
                            which in the main was an imposition, a graft and a lie. The honest man
                            might be very fine but he wasn't very successful. There was a
                            great to-do about morals, but most people were immoral or unmoral. Why
                            worry? Look to your health! Don't let a morbid conscience get
                            the better of you. Thus she counselled, and he agreed with her. For the
                            rest the survival of the fittest was the best. Why should he worry? He
                            had talent.
                        It was thus that Eugene floundered to and fro, and it was in this state,
                            brooding and melancholy, that Angela found him on her arrival. He was as
                            gay as ever at times, when he was not thinking, but he was very thin and
                            hollow-eyed, and Angela fancied that it was overwork and worry which
                            kept him in this state. Why had she left him? Poor Eugene! She had clung
                            desperately to the money he had given her, and had most of it with her
                            ready to be expended now for his care. She was so anxious for his
                            recovery and his peace of mind that she was  ready to go to work herself at anything she could find, in order to
                            make his path more easy. She was thinking that fate was terribly unjust
                            to him, and when he had gone to sleep beside her the first night she lay
                            awake and cried. Poor Eugene! To think he should be tried so by fate.
                            Nevertheless, he should not be tortured by anything which she could
                            prevent. She was going to make him as comfortable and happy as she
                            could. She set about to find some nice little apartment or rooms where
                            they could live in peace and where she could cook Eugene's
                            meals for him. She fancied that maybe his food had not been exactly
                            right, and when she got him where she could manifest a pretence of
                            self-confidence and courage that he would take courage from her and grow
                            better. So she set briskly about her task, honeying Eugene the while,
                            for she was confident that this above all things was the thing he
                            needed. She little suspected what a farce it all appeared to him, how
                            mean and contemptible he appeared to himself. He did not care to be
                            meanto rapidly disillusion her and go his way; and yet this dual
                            existence sickened him. He could not help but feel that from a great
                            many points of view Angela was better than Carlotta. Yet the other woman
                            was wider in her outlook, more gracious in her appearance, more
                            commanding, more subtle. She was a princess of the world, subtle, deadly
                            Machiavellian, but a princess nevertheless. Angela was better described
                            by the current and acceptable phrase of the timea "thoroughly
                            good woman," honest, energetic, resourceful, in all things
                            obedient to the race spirit and the conventional feelings of the time.
                            He knew that society would support her thoroughly and condemn Carlotta,
                            and yet Carlotta interested him more. He wished that he might have both
                            and no fussing. Then all would be beautiful. So he thought.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XXVI
                        THE situation which here presented itself was subject to no such gracious
                            and generous development. Angela was the soul of watchfulness,
                            insistence on duty, consideration for right conduct and for the
                            privileges, opportunities and emoluments which belonged to her as the
                            wife of a talented artist, temporarily disabled, it is true, but certain
                            to be distinguished in the future. She was deluding herself that this
                            recent experience of reverses had probably hardened and sharpened
                            Eugene's practical instincts, made him less indifferent to the
                            necessity of looking out for himself, given him keener instincts of
                            self-protection and economy. He had done very well to live on so little
                            she thought, but they were going to do betterthey were going to save.
                            She was going to give up those silly dreams she had entertained of a
                            magnificent studio and hosts of friends, and she was going to start now
                            saving a fraction of whatever they made, however small it might be, if
                            it were only ten cents a week. If Eugene could only make nine dollars a
                            week by working every day, they were going to live on that. He still had
                            ninety-seven of the hundred dollars he had brought with him, he told
                            her, and this was going in the bank. He did not tell her of the sale of
                            one of his pictures and of the subsequent dissipation of the proceeds.
                            In the bank, too, they were going to put any money from subsequent sales
                            until he was on his feet again. One of these days if they ever made any
                            money, they were going to buy a house somewhere in which they could live
                            without paying rent. Some of the money in the bank, a very little of it,
                            might go for clothes if worst came to worst, but it would not be touched
                            unless it was absolutely necessary. She needed clothes now, but that did
                            not matter. To Eugene's ninety-seven was added
                            Angela's two hundred and twenty-eight which she brought with
                            her, and this total sum of three hundred and twenty-five dollars was
                            promptly deposited in the Bank of Riverwood.
                        Angela by personal energy and explanation found four rooms in the house
                            of a furniture manufacturer; it had been vacated by a daughter who had
                            married, and they were glad to let it to an artist and his wife for
                            practically nothing so far as real worth was concerned, for this was a
                            private house in a lovely lawn. Twelve dollars per month was the charge.
                            Mrs. Witla seemed very charming to Mrs. Desenas, who was the wife of  the manufacturer, and for her especial
                            benefit a little bedroom on the second floor adjoining a bath was turned
                            into a kitchen, with a small gas stove, and Angela at once began
                            housekeeping operations on the tiny basis necessitated by their income.
                            Some furniture had to be secured, for the room was not completely
                            furnished, but Angela by haunting the second-hand stores in New York,
                            looking through all the department stores, and visiting certain private
                            sales, managed to find a few things which she could buy cheaply and
                            which would fit in with the dressing table, library table, dining table
                            and one bed which were already provided. The necessary curtains for the
                            bath and kitchen windows she cut, decorated and hung for herself. She
                            went down to the storage company where the unsold and undisplayed
                            portion of Eugene's pictures were and brought back seven, which
                            she placed in the general living-room and dining-room. All
                            Eugene's clothes, his underwear and socks particularly,
                            received her immediate attention, and she soon had his rather attenuated
                            wardrobe in good condition. From the local market she bought good
                            vegetables and a little meat and made delightful stews, ragouts,
                            combinations of eggs and tasty meat juices after the French fashion. All
                            her housekeeping art was employed to the utmost to make everything look
                            clean and neat, to maintain a bountiful supply of varied food on the
                            table and yet to keep the cost down, so that they could not only live on
                            nine dollars a week, but set aside a dollar or more of that for what
                            Angela called their private bank account. She had a little hollow brown
                            jug, calculated to hold fifteen dollars in change, which could be opened
                            when full, which she conscientiously endeavored to fill and refill. Her
                            one desire was to rehabilitate her husband in the eyes of the worldthis
                            time to stayand she was determined to do it.
                        For another thing, reflection and conversation with one person and
                            another had taught her that it was not well for herself or for Eugene
                            for her to encourage him in his animal passions. Some woman in Blackwood
                            had pointed out a local case of loco-motor-ataxia which had resulted
                            from lack of self-control, and she had learned that it was believed that
                            many other nervous troubles sprang from the same source. Perhaps
                            Eugene's had. She had resolved to protect him from himself. She
                            did not believe she could be injured, but Eugene was so sensitive, so
                            emotional.
                        The trouble with the situation was that it was such a sharp change from
                            his recent free and to him delightful mode of existence that it was
                            almost painful. He could see that everything  appeared to be satisfactory to her, that she thought all
                            his days had been moral and full of hard work. Carlotta's
                            presence in the background was not suspected. Her idea was that they
                            would work hard together now along simple, idealistic lines to the one
                            endsuccess for him, and of course, by reflection, for her.
                        Eugene saw the charm of it well enough, but it was only as something
                            quite suitable for others. He was an artist. The common laws of
                            existence could not reasonably apply to an artist. The latter should
                            have intellectual freedom, the privilege of going where he pleased,
                            associating with whom he chose. This marriage business was a galling
                            yoke, cutting off all rational opportunity for enjoyment, and he was now
                            after a brief period of freedom having that yoke heavily adjusted to his
                            neck again. Gone were all the fine dreams of pleasure and happiness
                            which so recently had been so realthe hope of living with Carlottathe
                            hope of associating with her on easy and natural terms in that superior
                            world which she represented. Angela's insistence on the thought
                            that he should work every day and bring home nine dollars a week, or
                            rather its monthly equivalent, made it necessary for him to take sharp
                            care of the little money he had kept out of the remainder of the three
                            hundred in order to supply any deficiency which might occur from his
                            taking time off. For there was no opportunity now of seeing Carlotta of
                            an evening, and it was necessary to take a regular number of afternoons
                            or mornings off each week, in order to meet her. He would leave the
                            little apartment as usual at a quarter to seven in the morning, dressed
                            suitably for possible out-door expeditions, for in anticipation of
                            difficulty he had told Angela that it was his custom to do this, and
                            sometimes he would go to the factory and sometimes he would not. There
                            was a car line which carried him rapidly cityward to a rendezvous, and
                            he would either ride or walk with her as the case might be. There was
                            constant thought on his and her part of the risk involved, but still
                            they persisted. By some stroke of ill or good fortune Norman Wilson
                            returned from Chicago, so that Carlotta's movements had to be
                            calculated to a nicety, but she did not care. She trusted most to the
                            automobiles which she could hire at convenient garages and which would
                            carry them rapidly away from the vicinity where they might be seen and
                            recognized.
                        It was a tangled life, difficult and dangerous. There was no peace in it,
                            for there is neither peace nor happiness in deception. A burning joy at
                            one time was invariably followed by a disturbing remorse afterward.
                            There was Carlotta's mother, Norman  Wilson, and Angela, to guard against, to say nothing of
                            the constant pricking of his own conscience.
                        It is almost a foregone conclusion in any situation of this kind that it
                            cannot endure. The seed of its undoing is in itself. We think that our
                            actions when unseen of mortal eyes resolve themselves into nothingness,
                            but this is not true. They are woven indefinably into our being and
                            shine forth ultimately as the real self, in spite of all our pretences.
                            One could almost accept the Brahmanistic dogma of a psychic body which
                            sees and is seen where we dream all to be darkness. There is no other
                            supposition on which to explain the facts of intuition. So many
                            individuals have it. They know so well without knowing why they
                            know.
                        Angela had this intuitive power in connection with Eugene. Because of her
                            great affection for him she divined or apprehended many things in
                            connection with him long before they occurred. Throughout her absence
                            from him she had been haunted by the idea that she ought to be with him,
                            and now that she was here and the first excitement of contact and
                            adjustment was over, she was beginning to be aware of something. Eugene
                            was not the same as he had been a little while before he had left her.
                            His attitude, in spite of a kindly show of affection, was distant and
                            preoccupied. He had no real power of concealing anything. He appeared at
                            timesat most times when he was with herto be lost in a mist of
                            speculation. He was lonely and a little love-sick, because under the
                            pressure of home affairs Carlotta was not able to see him quite so much.
                            At the same time, now that the fall was coming on, he was growing weary
                            of the shop at Speonk, for the gray days and slight chill which settled
                            upon the earth at times caused the shop windows to be closed and robbed
                            the yard of that air of romance which had characterized it when he first
                            came there. He could not take his way of an evening along the banks of
                            the stream to the arms of Carlotta. The novelty of Big John and Joseph
                            Mews and Malachi Dempsey and Little Suddsy had worn off. He was
                            beginning now to see also that they were nothing but plain workingmen
                            after all, worrying over the fact that they were not getting more than
                            fifteen or seventeen and a half cents an hour; jealous of each other and
                            their superiors, full of all the frailties and weaknesses to which the
                            flesh is heir.
                        His coming had created a slight diversion for them, for he was very
                            strange, but his strangeness was no longer a novelty. They were
                            beginning to see him also as a relatively commonplace human being. He
                            was an artist, to be sure, but his actions and  intentions were not so vastly different from those of
                            other men.
                        A shop of this kind, like any other institution where people are
                            compelled by force of circumstances to work together whether the weather
                            be fair or foul, or the mood grave or gay, can readily become and
                            frequently does become a veritable hell. Human nature is a subtle,
                            irritable, irrational thing. It is not so much governed by rules of
                            ethics and conditions of understanding as a thing of moods and
                            temperament. Eugene could easily see, philosopher that he was, that
                            these people would come here enveloped in some mist of home trouble or
                            secret illness or grief and would conceive that somehow it was not their
                            state of mind but the things around them which were the cause of all
                            their woe. Sour looks would breed sour looks in return; a gruff question
                            would beget a gruff answer; there were long-standing grudges between one
                            man and another, based on nothing more than a grouchy observation at one
                            time in the past. He thought by introducing gaiety and persistent, if
                            make-believe, geniality that he was tending to obviate and overcome the
                            general condition, but this was only relatively true. His own gaiety was
                            capable of becoming as much of a weariness to those who were out of the
                            spirit of it, as was the sour brutality with which at times he was
                            compelled to contend. So he wished that he might arrange to get well and
                            get out of here, or at least change his form of work, for it was plain
                            to be seen that this condition would not readily improve. His presence
                            was a commonplace. His power to entertain and charm was practically
                            gone.
                        This situation, coupled with Angela's spirit of honest
                            conservatism was bad, but it was destined to be much worse. From
                            watching him and endeavoring to decipher his moods, Angela came to
                            suspect somethingshe could not say what. He did not love her as much as
                            he had. There was a coolness in his caresses which was not there when he
                            left her. What could have happened, she asked herself. Was it just
                            absence, or what? One day when he had returned from an
                            afternoon's outing with Carlotta and was holding her in his
                            arms in greeting, she asked him solemnly:
                        "Do you love me, Honeybun?"
                        "You know I do," he asseverated, but without any
                            energy, for he could not regain his old original feeling for her. There
                            was no trace of it, only sympathy, pity, and a kind of sorrow that she
                            was being so badly treated after all her efforts.
                        "No, you don't," she replied, detecting the
                            hollow ring in what he said. Her voice was sad, and her eyes showed
                            traces  of that wistful despair into which
                            she could so readily sink at times.
                        "Why, yes I do, Angelface," he insisted. "What
                            makes you ask? What's come over you?" He was wondering
                            whether she had heard anything or seen anything and was concealing her
                            knowledge behind this preliminary inquiry.
                        "Nothing," she replied. "Only you
                            don't love me. I don't know what it is. I
                            don't know why. But I can feel it right here," and she
                            laid her hand on her heart.
                        The action was sincere, unstudied. It hurt him, for it was like that of a
                            little child.
                        "Oh, hush! Don't say that," he pleaded.
                            "You know I do. Don't look so gloomy. I love
                            youdon't you know I do?" and he kissed her.
                        "No, no!" said Angela. "I know! You
                            don't. Oh, dear; oh, dear; I feel so bad!"
                        Eugene was dreading another display of the hysteria with which he was
                            familiar, but it did not come. She conquered her mood, inasmuch as she
                            had no real basis for suspicion, and went about the work of getting him
                            his dinner. She was depressed, though, and he was fearful. What if she
                            should ever find out!
                        More days passed. Carlotta called him up at the shop occasionally, for
                            there was no phone where he lived, and she would not have risked it if
                            there had been. She sent him registered notes to be signed for,
                            addressed to Henry Kingsland and directed to the post office at Speonk.
                            Eugene was not known there as Witla and easily secured these missives,
                            which were usually very guarded in their expressions and concerned
                            appointmentsthe vaguest, most mysterious directions, which he
                            understood. They made arrangements largely from meeting to meeting,
                            saying, "If I can't keep it Thursday at two it will be
                            Friday at the same time; and if not then, Saturday. If anything happens
                            I'll send you a registered special." So it went
                            on.
                        One noontime Eugene walked down to the little post office at Speonk to
                            look for a letter, for Carlotta had not been able to meet him the
                            previous day and had phoned instead that she would write the following
                            day. He found it safely enough, and after glancing at itit contained but
                            few wordsdecided to tear it up as usual and throw the pieces away. A
                            mere expression, "Ashes of Roses," which she sometimes
                            used to designate herself, and the superscription, "Oh,
                            Genie!" made it, however, inexpressibly dear to him. He thought
                            he would hold it in his possession just a little whilea few hours
                            longer. It  was enigmatic enough to anyone
                            but himself, he thought, even if found. "The bridge, two,
                            Wednesday." The bridge referred to was one over the Harlem at
                            Morris Heights. He kept the appointment that day as requested, but by
                            some necromancy of fate he forgot the letter until he was within his own
                            door. Then he took it out, tore it up into four or five pieces quickly,
                            put it in his vest pocket, and went upstairs intending at the first
                            opportunity to dispose of it.
                        Meanwhile, Angela, for the first time since they had been living at
                            Riverwood, had decided to walk over toward the factory about six
                            o'clock and meet Eugene on his way home. She heard him
                            discourse on the loveliness of this stream and what a pleasure it was to
                            stroll along its banks morning and evening. He was so fond of the smooth
                            water and the overhanging leaves! She had walked with him there already
                            on several Sundays. When she went this evening she thought what a
                            pleasant surprise it would be for him, for she had prepared everything
                            on leaving so that his supper would not be delayed when they reached
                            home. She heard the whistle blow as she neared the shop, and, standing
                            behind a clump of bushes on the thither side of the stream, she waited,
                            expecting to pounce out on Eugene with a loving "Boo!"
                            He did not come.
                        The forty or fifty men who worked here trickled out like a little stream
                            of black ants, and then, Eugene not appearing, Angela went over to the
                            gate which Joseph Mews in the official capacity of gateman, after the
                            whistle blew, was closing.
                        "Is Mr. Witla here?" asked Angela, peering through the
                            bars at him. Eugene had described Joseph so accurately to her that she
                            recognized him at sight.
                        "No, ma'am," replied Joseph, quite taken back
                            by this attractive arrival, for good-looking women were not common at
                            the shop gate of the factory. "He left four or five hours ago,
                            I think he left at one o'clock, if I remember right. He
                            wasn't working with us today. He was working out in the
                            yard."
                        "You don't know where he went, do you?" asked
                            Angela, who was surprised at this novel information. Eugene had not said
                            anything about going anywhere. Where could he have gone?
                        "Ne'm, I don't," replied Joseph
                            volubly. "He sometimes goes off this wayquite frequent,
                            ma'am. His wife calls him upernow, maybe you're his
                            wife."
                        "I am," said Angela; but she was no longer thinking of
                            what she was saying, her words on the instant were becoming mechanical.
                            Eugene going away frequently? He had never said anything to her! His
                            wife calling him up! Could there be 
                            another woman! Instantly all her old suspicions, jealousies, fears,
                            awoke, and she was wondering why she had not fixed on this fact before.
                            That explained Eugene's indifference, of course. That explained
                            his air of abstraction. He wasn't thinking of her, the
                            miserable creature! He was thinking of someone else. Still she could not
                            be sure, for she had no proof. Two adroit questions elicited the fact
                            that no one in the shop had ever seen his wife. He had just gone out. A
                            woman had called up.
                        Angela took her way home amid a whirling fire of conjecture. When she
                            reached it Eugene was not there yet, for he sometimes delayed his
                            coming, lingering, as he said, to look at the water. It was natural
                            enough in an artist. She went upstairs and hung the broad-brimmed straw
                            she had worn in the closet, and went into the kitchen to await his
                            coming. Experience with him and the nature of her own temperament
                            determined her to enact a rle of subtlety. She would wait until he
                            spoke, pretending that she had not been out. She would ask whether he
                            had had a hard day, and see whether he disclosed the fact that he had
                            been away from the factory. That would show her positively what he was
                            doing and whether he was deliberately deceiving her.
                        Eugene came up the stairs, gay enough but anxious to deposit the scraps
                            of paper where they would not be seen. No opportunity came for Angela
                            was there to greet him.
                        "Did you have a hard job today?" she asked, noting that
                            he made no preliminary announcement of any absence.
                        "Not very," he replied; "no. I don't
                            look tired?"
                        "No," she said bitterly, but concealing her feelings;
                            she wanted to see how thoroughly and deliberately he would lie.
                            "But I thought maybe you might have. Did you stop to look at
                            the water tonight?"
                        "Yes," he replied smoothly. "It's
                            very lovely over there. I never get tired of it. The sun on the leaves
                            these days now that they are turning yellow is so beautiful. They look a
                            little like stained glass at certain angles."
                        Her first impulse after hearing this was to exclaim, "Why do you
                            lie to me, Eugene?" for her temper was fiery, almost
                            uncontrollable at times; but she restrained herself. She wanted to find
                            out morehow she did not know, but time, if she could only wait a little,
                            would help her. Eugene went to the bath, congratulating himself on the
                            ease of his escapethe comfortable fact that he was not catechised very
                            much; but in this temporary feeling of satisfaction he forgot the scraps
                            of paper in his 
                            t pocketthough not for long. He hung his coat and
                            vest on a hook and started into the bedroom to get himself a fresh
                            collar and tie. While he was in there Angela passed the bathroom door.
                            She was always interested in Eugene's clothes, how they were
                            wearing, but tonight there were other thoughts in her mind. Hastily and
                            by intuition she went through his pockets, finding the torn scraps, then
                            for excuse took his coat and vest down to clean certain spots. At the
                            same moment Eugene thought of his letter. He came hurrying out to get
                            it, or the pieces, rather, but Angela already had them and was looking
                            at them curiously.
                        "What was that?" she asked, all her suspicious nature
                            on the qui vive for additional proof. Why should he
                            keep the torn fragments of a letter in his pocket? For days she had had
                            a psychic sense of something impending. Everything about him seemed
                            strangely to call for investigation. Now it was all coming out.
                        "Nothing," he said nervously. "A memorandum.
                            Throw it in the paper box."
                        Angela noted the peculiarity of his voice and manner. She was taken by
                            the guilty expression of his eyes. Something was wrong. It concerned
                            these scraps of paper. Maybe it was in these she would be able to read
                            the riddle of his conduct. The woman's name might be in here.
                            Like a flash it came to her that she might piece these scraps together,
                            but there was another thought equally swift which urged her to pretend
                            indifference. That might help her. Pretend now and she would know more
                            later. She threw them in the paper box, thinking to piece them together
                            at her leisure. Eugene noted her hesitation, her suspicion. He was
                            afraid she would do something, what he could not guess. He breathed more
                            easily when the papers fluttered into the practically empty box, but he
                            was nervous. If they were only burned! He did not think she would
                            attempt to put them together, but he was afraid. He would have given
                            anything if his sense of romance had not led him into this trap.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XXVII
                        ANGELA was quick to act upon her thought. No sooner had Eugene entered
                            the bath than she gathered up the pieces, threw other bits of paper like
                            them in their place and tried quickly to piece them together on the
                            ironing board where she was. It was not difficult; the scraps were not
                            small. On one triangular bit were the words, "Oh,
                            Genie!" with a colon after it; on another the words,
                            "The bridge," and on another
                            "Roses." There was no doubt in her mind from this
                            preliminary survey that this was a love note, and every nerve in her
                            body tingled to the terrible import of it. Could it really be true?
                            Could Eugene have found someone else? Was this the cause of his coolness
                            and his hypocritical pretence of affection? and of his not wanting her
                            to come to him? Oh, God! Would her sufferings never cease! She hurried
                            into the front room, her face white, her hand clenching the tell-tale
                            bits, and there set to work to complete her task. It did not take her
                            long. In four minutes it was all together, and then she saw it all. A
                            love note! From some demon of a woman. No doubt of it! Some mysterious
                            woman in the background. "Ashes of Roses!" Now God
                            curse her for a siren, a love thief, a hypnotizing snake, fascinating
                            men with her evil eyes. And Eugene! The dog! The scoundrel! The vile
                            coward! The traitor! Was there no decency, no morality, no kindness, no
                            gratitude in his soul? After all her patience, all her suffering, all
                            her loneliness, her poverty. To treat her like this! Writing that he was
                            sick and lonely and unable to have her with him, and at the same time
                            running around with a strange woman. "Ashes of Roses!"
                            Oh, curses, curses, curses on her harlot's heart and brain!
                            Might God strike her dead for her cynical, brutal seizing upon that
                            sacred possession which belonged to another. She wrung her hands
                            desperately.
                        Angela was fairly beside herself. Through her dainty little head ran a
                            foaming torrent of rage, hate, envy, sorrow, self-commiseration, brutal
                            desire for revenge. If she could only get at this woman! If she could
                            only denounce Eugene now to his face! If she could only find them
                            together and kill them! How she would like to strike her on the mouth!
                            How tear her hair and her eyes out! Something of the forest
                            cat's cruel rage shone in her gleaming eyes as she thought of
                            her, for if she could  have had Carlotta
                            there alone she would have tortured her with hot irons, torn her tongue
                            and teeth from their roots, beaten her into insensibility and an
                            unrecognizable mass. She was a real tigres now, her eyes gleaming, her
                            red lips wet. She would kill her! kill her!! kill her!!! As God was
                            judge, she would kill her if she could find her, and Eugene and herself.
                            Yes, yes, she would. Better death than this agony of suffering. Better a
                            thousand times to be dead with this beast of a woman dead beside her and
                            Eugene than to suffer this way. She didn't deserve it. Why did
                            God torture her so? Why was she made to bleed at every step by this her
                            sacrificial love? Had she not been a good wife? Had she not laid every
                            tribute of tenderness, patience, self-abnegation, self-sacrifice and
                            virtue on the altar of love? What more could God ask? What more could
                            man want? Had she not waited on Eugene in sickness and health? She had
                            gone without clothes, gone without friends, hidden herself away in
                            Blackwood the seven months while he was here frittering away his health
                            and time in love and immorality, and what was her reward? In Chicago, in
                            Tennessee, in Mississippi, had she not waited on him, sat up with him of
                            nights, walked the floor with him when he was nervous, consoled him in
                            his fear of poverty and failure, and here she was now, after seven long
                            months of patient waiting and watchingeating her lonely heart
                            outforsaken. Oh, the inconceivable inhumanity of the human heart! To
                            think anybody could be so vile, so low, so unkind, so cruel! To think
                            that Eugene with his black eyes, his soft hair, his smiling face, could
                            be so treacherous, so subtle, so dastardly! Could he really be as mean
                            as this note proved him to be? Could he be as brutal, as selfish? Was
                            she awake or asleep? Was this a dream? Ah, God! no, no it was not a
                            dream. It was a cold, bitter, agonizing reality. And the cause of all
                            her suffering was there in the bathroom now shaving himself.
                        For one moment she thought she would go in and strike him where he stood.
                            She thought she could tear his heart out, cut him up, but then suddenly
                            the picture of him bleeding and dead came to her and she recoiled. No,
                            no, she could not do that! Oh, no, not Eugeneand yet and yet
                        "Oh, God, let me get my hands on that woman!" she said
                            to herself. "Let me get my hands on her. I'll kill
                            her, I'll kill her! I'll kill her!"
                        This torrent of fury and self-pity was still raging in her heart when the
                            bathroom knob clicked and Eugene came out. He was in his undershirt,
                            trousers and shoes, looking for a clean 
                            white shirt. He was very nervous over the note which had been thrown in
                            scraps into the box, but looking in the kitchen and seeing the pieces
                            still there he was slightly reassured. Angela was not there; he could
                            come back and get them when he found out where she was. He went on into
                            the bedroom, looking into the front room as he did so. She appeared to
                            be at the window waiting for him. After all, she was probably not as
                            suspicious as he thought. It was his own imagination. He was too nervous
                            and sensitive. Well, he would get those pieces now if he could and throw
                            them out of the window. Angela should not have a chance to examine them
                            if she wanted to. He slipped out into the kitchen, made a quick grab for
                            the little heap, and sent the pieces flying. Then he felt much better.
                            He would never bring another letter home from anybody, that was a
                            certainty. Fate was too much against him.
                        Angela came out after a bit, for the click of the bathroom knob had
                            sobered her a little. Her rage was high, her pulse abnormal, her whole
                            being shaken to its roots, but still she realized that she must have
                            time to think. She must see who this woman was first. She must have time
                            to find her. Eugene mustn't know. Where was she now? Where was
                            this bridge? Where did they meet? Where did she live? She wondered for
                            the moment why she couldn't think it all out, why it
                            didn't come to her in a flash, a revelation. If she could only
                            know!
                        In a few minutes Eugene came in, clean-shaven, smiling, his equanimity
                            and peace of mind fairly well restored. The letter was gone. Angela
                            could never know. She might suspect, but this possible burst of jealousy
                            had been nipped in the bud. He came over toward her to put his arm round
                            her, but she slipped away from him, pretending to need the sugar. He let
                            this effort at love making gothe will for the deed, and sat down at the
                            snow-white little table, set with tempting dishes and waited to be
                            served. The day had been very pleasant, being early in October, and he
                            was pleased to see a last lingering ray of light falling on some red and
                            yellow leaves. This yard was very beautiful. This little flat, for all
                            their poverty, very charming. Angela was neat and trim in a dainty house
                            dress of mingled brown and green. A dark blue studio apron shielded her
                            bosom and skirt. She was very pale and distraught-looking, but Eugene
                            for the time was almost unconscious of ithe was so relieved.
                        "Are you very tired, Angela?" he finally asked
                            sympathetically.
                        "Yes, I'm not feeling so well today," she
                            replied.
                        
                        "What have you been doing, ironing?"
                        "Oh, yes, and cleaning. I worked on the cupboard."
                        "You oughtn't to try to do so much," he said
                            cheerfully.
                        "You're not strong enough. You think you're a
                            little horse, but you are only a colt. Better go slow, hadn't
                            you?"
                        "I will after I get everything straightened out to suit
                            me," she replied.
                        She was having the struggle of her life to conceal her real feelings.
                            Never at any time had she undergone such an ordeal as this. Once in the
                            studio, when she discovered those two letters, she thought she was
                            sufferingbut that, what was that to this? What were her suspicions
                            concerning Frieda? What were the lonely longings at home, her grieving
                            and worrying over his illness? Nothing, nothing! Now he was actually
                            faithless to her. Now she had the evidence. This woman was here. She was
                            somewhere in the immediate background. After these years of marriage and
                            close companionship he was deceiving her. It was possible that he had
                            been with this woman today, yesterday, the day before. The letter was
                            not dated. Could it be that she was related to Mrs. Hibberdell? Eugene
                            had said that there was a married daughter, but never that she was
                            there. If she was there, why should he have moved? He wouldn't
                            have. Was it the wife of the man he was last living with? No; she was
                            too homely. Angela had seen her. Eugene would never associate with her.
                            If she could only know! "Ashes of Roses!" The world
                            went red before her eyes. There was no use bursting into a storm now,
                            though. If she could only be calm it would be better. If she only had
                            someone to talk toif there were a minister or a bosom friend! She might
                            go to a detective agency. They might help her. A detective could trace
                            this woman and Eugene. Did she want to do this? It cost money. They were
                            very poor now. Paugh! Why should she worry about their poverty, mending
                            her dresses, going without hats, going without decent shoes, and he
                            wasting his time and being upon some shameless strumpet! If he had
                            money, he would spend it on her. Still, he had handed her almost all the
                            money he had brought East with him intact. How was that?
                        All the time Eugene was sitting opposite her eating with fair heartiness.
                            If the trouble about the letter had not come out so favorably he would
                            have been without appetite, but now he felt at ease. Angela said she was
                            not hungry and could not eat. She passed him the bread, the butter, the
                            hashed brown potatoes, the tea, and he ate cheerfully.
                        
                        "I think I am going to try and get out of that shop over
                            there," he volunteered affably.
                        "Why?" asked Angela mechanically.
                        "I'm tired of it. The men are not so interesting to me
                            now.
                        I'm tired of them. I think Mr. Haverford will transfer me if I
                            write to him. He said he would. I'd rather be outside with some
                            section gang if I could. It's going to be very dreary in the
                            shop when they close it up."
                        "Well, if you're tired you'd better,"
                            replied Angela. "Your mind needs diversion, I know that. Why
                            don't you write to Mr. Haverford?"
                        "I will," he said, but he did not immediately. He went
                            into the front room and lit the gas eventually, reading a paper, then a
                            book, then yawning wearily. Angela came in after a time and sat down
                            pale and tired. She went and secured a little workbasket in which were
                            socks undarned and other odds and ends and began on those, but she
                            revolted at the thought of doing anything for him and put them up. She
                            got out a skirt of hers which she was making. Eugene watched her a
                            little while lazily, his artistic eye measuring the various dimensions
                            of her features. She had a well-balanced face, he finally concluded. He
                            noted the effect of the light on her hairthe peculiar hue it gave itand
                            wondered if he could get that in oil. Night scenes were harder than
                            those of full daylight. Shadows were so very treacherous. He got up
                            finally.
                        "Well, I'm going to turn in," he said.
                            "I'm tired. I have to get up at six. Oh, dear, this
                            darn day labor business gives me a pain. I wish it were
                            over."
                        Angela did not trust herself to speak. She was so full of pain and
                            despair that she thought if she spoke she would cry. He went out,
                            saying: "Coming soon?" She nodded her head. When he
                            was gone the storm burst and she broke into a blinding flood of tears.
                            They were not only tears of sorrow, but of rage and helplessness. She
                            went out on a little balcony which was there and cried alone, the night
                            lights shining wistfully about. After the first storm she began to
                            harden and dry up again, for helpless tears were foreign to her in a
                            rage. She dried her eyes and became white-faced and desperate as
                            before.
                        The dog, the scoundrel, the brute, the hound! she thought. How could she
                            ever have loved him? How could she love him now? Oh, the horror of life,
                            its injustice, its cruelty, its shame! That she should be dragged
                            through the mire with a man like this. The pity of it! The shame! If
                            this was art, death take it! And yet hate him as she mighthate this
                            hellish man-trap  who signed herself
                            "Ashes of Roses"she loved him, too. She could not help
                            it. She knew she loved him. Oh, to be crossed by two fevers like this!
                            Why might she not die? Why not die, right now?
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XXVIII
                        THE hells of love are bitter and complete. There were days after that
                            when she watched him, followed him down the pleasant lane from the house
                            to the water's edge, slipping out unceremoniously after he had
                            gone not more than eight hundred feet. She watched the bridge at
                            Riverwood at one and six, expecting that Eugene and his paramour might
                            meet there. It just happened that Carlotta was compelled to leave town
                            for ten days with her husband, and so Eugene was safe. On two occasions
                            he went downtowninto the heart of the great city, anxious to get a
                            breath of the old life that so fascinated him, and Angela followed him
                            only to lose track of him quickly. He did nothing evil, however, merely
                            walked, wondering what Miriam Finch and Christina Channing and Norma
                            Whitmore were doing these days and what they were thinking of him in his
                            long absence. Of all the people he had known, he had only seen Norma
                            Whitmore once and that was not long after he returned to New York. He
                            had given her a garbled explanation of his illness, stated that he was
                            going to work now and proposed to come and see her. He did his best to
                            avoid observation, however, for he dreaded explaining the reason of his
                            non-productive condition. Miriam Finch was almost glad that he had
                            failed, since he had treated her so badly. Christina Channing was in
                            opera, as he quickly discovered, for he saw her name blazoned one day
                            the following November in the newspapers. She was a star of whose talent
                            great hopes were entertained, and was interested almost exclusively in
                            her career. She was to sing in "Bohme" and
                            "Rigoletto."
                        Another thing, fortunate for Eugene at this time, was that he changed his
                            work. There came to the shop one day an Irish foreman, Timothy Deegan,
                            master of a score of "guineas," as he called the
                            Italian day laborers who worked for him, who took Eugene's
                            fancy greatly. He was of medium height, thick of body and neck, with a
                            cheerful, healthy red face, a keen, twinkling gray eye, and stiff,
                            closely cropped gray hair and mustache. He had come to lay the
                            foundation for a small dynamo in the engine room at Speonk, which was to
                            supply the plant with light in case of night work, and a car of his had
                            been backed in, a tool car, full of boards, barrows, mortar  boards, picks and shovels. Eugene was
                            amused and astonished at his insistent, defiant attitude and the brisk
                            manner in which he was handing out orders to his men.
                        "Come, Matt! Come, Jimmie! Get the shovels now! Get the
                            picks!" he heard him shout. "Bring some sand here!
                            Bring some stone! Where's the cement now? Where's the
                            cement? Jasus Christ! I must have some cement. What arre ye all doing?
                            Hurry now, hurry! Bring the cement."
                        "Well, he knows how to give orders," commented Eugene
                            to Big John, who was standing near. "He certainly
                            does," replied the latter.
                        To himself Eugene observed, hearing only the calls at first,
                            "the Irish brute." Later he discovered a subtle
                            twinkle in Deegan's eyes as he stood brazenly in the door,
                            looking defiantly about. There was no brutality in it, only
                            self-confidence and a hearty Irish insistence on the necessity of the
                            hour.
                        "Well, you're a dandy!" commented Eugene
                            boldly after a time, and laughed.
                        "Ha! ha! ha!" mocked Deegan in return. "If you
                            had to work as harred as these men you wouldn't
                            laugh."
                        "I'm not laughing at them. I'm laughing at
                            you," explained Eugene.
                        "Laugh," said Deegan. "Shore you're
                            as funny to me as I am to you."
                        Eugene laughed again. The Irishman agreed with himself that there was
                            humor in it. He laughed too. Eugene patted his big rough shoulder with
                            his hands and they were friends immediately. It did not take Deegan long
                            to find out from Big John why he was there and what he was doing.
                        "An arrtist!" he commented. "Shewer
                            he'd better be outside than in. The loikes of him
                            packin' shavin's and him laughin' at
                            me."
                        Big John smiled.
                        "I believe he wants to get outside," he said.
                        "Why don't he come with me, then? He'd have a
                            foine time workin' with the guineas. Shewer 'twould
                            make a man av hima few months of that"and he pointed to Angelo
                            Esposito shoveling clay.
                        Big John thought this worth reporting to Eugene. He did not think that he
                            wanted to work with the guineas, but he might like to be with Deegan.
                            Eugene saw his opportunity. He liked Deegan.
                        "Would you like to have an artist who's looking for
                            health come and work for you, Deegan?" Eugene asked genially.
                            He  thought Deegan might refuse, but it
                            didn't matter. It was worth the trial.
                        "Shewer!" replied the latter.
                        "Will I have to work with the Italians?"
                        "There"ll be plenty av work for ye to do without ever
                            layin' yer hand to pick or shovel unless ye want to. Shewer
                            that's no work fer a white man to do."
                        "And what do you call them, Deegan? Aren't they
                            white?"
                        "Shewer they're naat."
                        "What are they, then? They're not black."
                        "Nagurs, of coorse."
                        "But they're not negroes."
                        "Will, begad, they're naat white. Any man kin tell that
                            be lookin' at thim."
                        Eugene smiled. He understood at once the solid Irish temperament which
                            could draw this hearty conclusion. There was no malice in it. Deegan did
                            not underestimate these Italians. He liked his men, but they
                            weren't white. He didn't know what they were exactly,
                            but they weren't white. He was standing over them a moment
                            later shouting, "Up with it! Up with it! Down with it! Down
                            with it!" as though his whole soul were intent on driving the
                            last scrap of strength out of these poor underlings, when as a matter of
                            fact they were not working very hard at all. His glance was roving about
                            in a general way as he yelled and they paid little attention to him.
                            Once in a while he would interpolate a "Come, Matt!"
                            in a softer keya key so soft that it was entirely out of keeping with
                            his other voice. Eugene saw it all clearly. He understood Deegan.
                        "I think I'll get Mr. Haverford to transfer me to you,
                            if you'll let me come," he said at the close of the
                            day when Deegan was taking off his overalls and the
                            "Eyetalians," as he called them, were putting the
                            things back in the car.
                        "Shewer!" said Deegan, impressed by the great name of
                            Haverford. If Eugene could accomplish that through such a far-off,
                            wondrous personality, he must be a remarkable man himself.
                            "Come along. I'll be glad to have ye. Ye can just make
                            out the O. K. blanks and the repoarts and watch over the min sich times
                            as I'll naat be there andwellall told, ye'll have
                            enough to keep ye busy."
                        Eugene smiled. This was a pleasant prospect. Big John had told him during
                            the morning that Deegan went up and down the road from Peekskill on the
                            main line, Chatham on the Midland Division, and Mt. Kisco on a third
                            branch to New York City. He built wells, culverts, coal bins, building
                            pierssmall  brick buildingsanything and
                            everything, in short, which a capable foreman-mason ought to be able to
                            build, and in addition he was fairly content and happy in his task.
                            Eugene could see it. The atmosphere of the man was wholesome. He was
                            like a tonica revivifying dynamo to this sickly overwrought
                            sentimentalist.
                        That night he went home to Angela full of the humor and romance of his
                            new situation. He liked the idea of it. He wanted to tell her about
                            Deeganto make her laugh. He was destined unfortunately to another kind
                            of reception.
                        For Angela, by this time, had endured the agony of her discovery to the
                            breaking point. She had listened to his pretences, knowing them to be
                            lies, until she could endure it no longer. In following him she had
                            discovered nothing, and the change in his work would make the chase more
                            difficult. It was scarcely possible for anyone to follow him, for he
                            himself did not know where he would be from day to day. He would be
                            here, there, and everywhere. His sense of security as well as of his
                            unfairness made him sensitive about being nice in the unimportant
                            things. When he thought at all he was ashamed of what he was
                            doingthoroughly ashamed. Like the drunkard he appeared to be mastered by
                            his weakness, and the psychology of his attitude is so best interpreted.
                            He caressed her sympathetically, for he thought from her drawn, weary
                            look that she was verging on some illness. She appeared to him to be
                            suffering from worry for him, overwork, or approaching malady.
                        But Eugene in spite of his unfaithfulness did sympathize with Angela
                            greatly. He appreciated her good qualitiesher truthfulness, economy,
                            devotion and self-sacrifice in all things which related to him. He was
                            sorry that his own yearning for freedom crossed with her desire for
                            simple-minded devotion on his part. He could not love her as she wanted
                            him to, that he knew, and yet he was at times sorry for it, very. He
                            would look at her when she was not looking at him, admiring her
                            industry, her patience, her pretty figure, her geniality in the face of
                            many difficulties, and wish that she could have had a better fate than
                            to have met and married him.
                        Because of these feelings on his part for her he could not bear to see
                            her suffer. When she appeared to be ill he could not help drawing near
                            to her, wanting to know how she was, endeavoring, to make her feel
                            better by those sympathetic, emotional demonstrations which he knew
                            meant so much to her. On this particular evening, noting the still drawn
                            agony of her face, he was moved to insist. "What's the
                            matter with you, Angelface,  these days?
                            You look so tired. You're not right. What's troubling
                            you?"
                        "Oh, nothing," replied Angela wearily.
                        "But I know there is," he replied. "You
                            can't be feeling well. What's ailing you?
                            You're not like yourself at all. Won't you tell me,
                            sweet? What's the trouble?"
                        He was thinking because Angela said nothing that it must be a real
                            physical illness. Any emotional complaint vented itself quickly.
                        "Why should you care?" she asked cautiously, breaking
                            her self-imposed vow of silence. She was thinking that Eugene and this
                            woman, whoever she was, were conspiring to defeat her and that they were
                            succeeding. Her voice had changed from one of weary resignation to
                            subtle semi-concealed complaint and offense, and Eugene noted it. Before
                            she could add any more, he had observed, "Why
                            shouldn't I? Why, how you talk! What's the matter
                            now?"
                        Angela really did not intend to go on. Her query was dragged out of her
                            by his obvious sympathy. He was sorry for her in some general way. It
                            made her pain and wrath all the greater. And his additional inquiry
                            irritated her the more.
                        "Why should you?" she asked weepingly. "You
                            don't want me. You don't like me. You pretend sympathy
                            when I look a little bad, but that's all. But you
                            don't care for me. If you could get rid of me, you would. That
                            is so plain."
                        "Why, what are you talking about?" he asked,
                            astonished. Had she found out anything? Was the incident of the scraps
                            of paper really closed? Had anybody been telling her anything about
                            Carlotta? Instantly he was all at sea. Still he had to pretend.
                        "You know I care," he said. "How can you say
                            that?"
                        "You don't. You know you don't!" she
                            flared up suddenly.
                        "Why do you lie? You don't care. Don't touch
                            me. Don't come near me. I'm sick of your hypocritical
                            pretences! Oh!" And she straightened up with her finger nails
                            cutting into her palms.
                        Eugene at the first expression of disbelief on her part had laid his hand
                            soothingly on her arm. That was why she had jumped away from him. Now he
                            drew back, nonplussed, nervous, a little defiant. It was easier to
                            combat rage than sorrow; but he did not want to do either.
                        "What's the matter with you?" he asked,
                            assuming a look of bewildered innocence. "What have I done
                            now?"
                        "What haven't you done, you'd better ask. You
                            dog! You  coward!" flared Angela.
                            "Leaving me to stay out in Wisconsin while you go running
                            around with a shameless woman. Don't deny it! Don't
                            dare to deny it!"this apropos of a protesting movement on the
                            part of Eugene's head"I know all! I know more than I
                            want to know. I know how you've been acting. I know what
                            you've been doing. I know how you've been lying to me.
                            You've been running around with a low, vile wretch of a woman
                            while I have been staying out in Blackwood eating my heart out,
                            that's what you've been doing. Dear Angela! Dear
                            Angelface! Dear Madonna Doloroso! Ha! What have you been calling her,
                            you lying, hypocritical coward! What names have you for her, Hypocrite!
                            Brute! Liar! I know what you've been doing. Oh, how well I
                            know! Why was I ever born?oh, why, why?"
                        Her voice trailed off in a wail of agony. Eugene stood there astonished
                            to the point of inefficiency. He could not think of a single thing to do
                            or say. He had no idea upon what evidence she based her complaint. He
                            fancied that it must be much more than had been contained in that little
                            note which he had torn up. She had not seen thatof that he was
                            reasonably sureor was he? Could she have taken it out of the box while
                            he was in the bath and then put it back again? This sounded like it. She
                            had looked very bad that night. How much did she know? Where had she
                            secured this information? Mrs. Hibberdell? Carlotta? No! Had she seen
                            her? Where? When?
                        "You're talking through your hat," he said
                            aimlessly and largely in order to get time. "You're
                            crazy! What's got into you, anyhow? I haven't been
                            doing anything of the sort."
                        "Oh, haven't you!" she sneered. "You
                            haven't been meeting her at bridges and road houses and street
                            cars, have you? You liar! You haven't been calling her `Ashes
                            of Roses' and `River Nymph' and `Angel
                            Girl.'" Angela was making up names and places out of
                            her own mind. "I suppose you used some of the pet names on her
                            that you gave to Christina Channing, didn't you? She'd
                            like those, the vile strumpet! And you, you dog, pretending to
                            mepretending sympathy, pretending loneliness, pretending sorrow that I
                            couldn't be here! A lot you cared what I was doing or thinking
                            or suffering. Oh, I hate you, you horrible coward! I hate her! I hope
                            something terrible happens to you. If I could get at her now I would
                            kill her and you bothand myself. I would! I wish I could die! I wish I
                            could die!"
                        Eugene was beginning to get the measure of his iniquity as Angela
                            interpreted it. He could see now how cruelly he had  hurt her. He could see now how vile what he was doing
                            looked in her eyes. It was bad businessrunning with other womenno doubt
                            of it. It always ended in something like thisa terrible storm in which
                            he had to sit by and hear himself called brutal names to which there was
                            no legitimate answer. He had heard of this in connection with other
                            people, but he had never thought it would come to him. And the worst of
                            it was that he was guilty and deserving of it. No doubt of that. It
                            lowered him in his own estimation. It lowered her in his and her own
                            because she had to fight this way. Why did he do it? Why did he drag her
                            into such a situation? It was breaking down that sense of pride in
                            himself which was the only sustaining power a man had before the gaze of
                            the world. Why did he let himself into these situations? Did he really
                            love Carlotta? Did he want pleasure enough to endure such abuse as this?
                            This was a terrible scene. And where would it end? His nerves were
                            tingling, his brain fairly aching. If he could only conquer this desire
                            for another type and be faithful, and yet how dreadful that seemed! To
                            confine himself in all his thoughts to just Angela! It was not possible.
                            He thought of these things, standing there enduring the brunt of this
                            storm. It was a terrible ordeal, but it was not wholly reformatory even
                            at that.
                        "What's the use of your carrying on like that,
                            Angela?" he said grimly, after he had listened to all this.
                            "It isn't as bad as you think. I'm not a
                            liar, and I'm not a dog! You must have pieced that note I threw
                            in the paper box together and read it. When did you do it?"
                        He was curious about that and about how much she knew. What were her
                            intentions in regard to him? What in regard to Carlotta? What would she
                            do next?
                        "When did I do it?" she replied. "When did I
                            do it? What has that to do with it? What right have you to ask? Where is
                            this woman, that's what I want to know? I want to find her. I
                            want to face her. I want to tell her what a wretched beast she is.
                            I'll show her how to come and steal another woman's
                            husband. I'll kill her. I'll kill her and
                            I'll kill you, too. Do you hear? I'll kill
                            you!" And she advanced on him defiantly, blazingly.
                        Eugene was astounded. He had never seen such rage in any woman. It was
                            wonderful, fascinating, something like a great lightning-riven storm.
                            Angela was capable of hurling thunderbolts of wrath. He had not known
                            that. It raised her in his estimationmade her really more attractive
                            than she would  otherwise have been, for
                            power, however displayed, is fascinating. She was so little, so grim, so
                            determined! It was in its way a test of great capability. And he liked
                            her for it even though he resented her abuse.
                        "No, no, Angela," he said sympathetically and with a
                            keen wish to alleviate her sorrow. "You would not do anything
                            like that. You couldn't!"
                        "I will! I will!" she declared. "I'll
                            kill her and you, too!"
                        And then having reached this tremendous height she suddenly broke.
                            Eugene's big, sympathetic understanding was after all too much
                            for her. His brooding patience in the midst of her wrath, his innate
                            sorrow for what he could not or would not help (it was written all over
                            his face), his very obvious presentation of the fact by his attitude
                            that he knew that she loved him in spite of this, was too much for her.
                            It was like beating her hands against a stone. She might kill him and
                            this woman, whoever the was, but she would not have changed his attitude
                            toward her, and that was what she wanted. A great torrent of
                            heart-breaking sobs broke from her, shaking her frame like a reed. She
                            threw her arms and head upon the kitchen table, falling to her knees,
                            and cried and cried. Eugene stood there contemplating the wreck he had
                            made of her dreams. Certainly it was hell, he said to himself; certainly
                            it was. He was a liar, as she said, a dog, a scoundrel. Poor little
                            Angela! Well, the damage had been done. What could he do now? Anything?
                            Certainly not. Not a thing. She was brokenheart-broken. There was no
                            earthly remedy for that. Priests might shrive for broken laws, but for a
                            broken heart what remedy was there?
                        "Angela!" he called gently. "Angela!
                            I'm sorry! Don' cry! Angela!! Don't
                            cry!"
                        But she did not hear him. She did not hear anything. Lost in the agony of
                            her situation, she could only sob convulsively until it seemed that her
                            pretty little frame would break to pieces.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XXIX
                        EUGENE feelings on this occasion were of reasonable duration. It is
                            always possible under such circumstances to take the victim of our
                            brutalities in our arms and utter a few sympathetic or repentant words.
                            The real kindness and repentance which consists in reformation is quite
                            another matter. One must see with eyes too pure to behold evil to do
                            that. Eugene was not to be reformed by an hour or many hours of agony on
                            anyone's part. Angela was well within the range of his
                            sympathetic interests. He suffered with her keenly, but not enough to
                            outrun or offset his own keen desire for what he considered his
                            spiritual right to enjoy beauty. What harm did it do, he would have
                            asked himself, if he secretly exchanged affectionate looks and feelings
                            with Carlotta or any other woman who fascinated him and in turn was
                            fascinated by him? Could an affinity of this character really be called
                            evil? He was not giving her any money which Angela ought to have, or
                            very little. He did not want to marry herand she really did not want to
                            marry him, he thoughtthere was no chance of that, anyhow. He wanted to
                            associate with her. And what harm did that do Angela? None, if she did
                            not know. Of course, if she knew, it was very sad for her and for him.
                            But, if the shoe were on the other foot, and Angela was the one who was
                            acting as he was acting now he would not care, he thought. He forgot to
                            add that if he did not care it would be because he was not in love, and
                            Angela was in love. Such reasoning runs in circles. Only it is not
                            reasoning. It is sentimental and emotional anarchy. There is no will
                            toward progress in it.
                        When Angela recovered from her first burst of rage and grief it was only
                            to continue it further, though not in quite the same vein. There can
                            only be one superlative in any field of endeavor. Beyond that may be
                            mutterings and thunderings or a shining after-glow, but no second
                            superlative. Angela charged him with every weakness and evil tendency,
                            only to have him look at her in a solemn way, occasionally saying:
                            "Oh, no! You know I'm not as bad as that," or
                            "Why do you abuse me in that way? That isn't
                            true," or "Why do you say that?"
                        "Because it is so, and you know it's so,"
                            Angela would declare.
                        "Listen, Angela," he replied once, with a certain
                            amount of  logic, "there is no
                            use in brow-beating me in this way. It doesn't do any good to
                            call me names. You want me to love you, don't you?
                            That's all that you want. You don't want anything
                            else. Will calling me names make me do it? If I can't I
                            can't, and if I can I can. How will fighting help
                            that?"
                        She listened to him pitifully, for she knew that her rage was useless, or
                            practically so. He was in the position of power. She loved him. That was
                            the sad part of it. To think that tears and pleadings and wrath might
                            not really avail, after all! He could only love her out of a desire that
                            was not self-generated. That was something she was beginning to see in a
                            dim way as a grim truth.
                        Once she folded her hands and sat white and drawn, staring at the floor.
                            "Well, I don't know what to do," she
                            declared. "I suppose I ought to leave you. If it just
                            weren't for my family! They all think so highly of the marriage
                            state. They are so naturally faithful and decent. I suppose these
                            qualities have to be born in people. They can't be acquired.
                            You would have to be made over."
                        Eugene knew she would not leave him. He smiled at the superior
                            condescension of the last remark, though it was not intended as such by
                            her. To think of his being made over after the model Angela and her
                            relatives would lay down!
                        "I don't know where I'd go or what
                            I'd do," she observed. "I can't go
                            back to my family. I don't want to go there. I haven't
                            been trained in anything except school teaching, and I hate to think of
                            that again. If I could only study stenography or book-keeping!"
                            She was talking as much to clear her own mind as his. She really did not
                            know what to do.
                        Eugene listened to this self-demonstrated situation with a shamed face.
                            It was hard for him to think of Angela being thrown out on the world as
                            a book-keeper or a stenographer. He did not want to see her doing
                            anything like that. In a way, he wanted to live with her, if it could be
                            done in his waymuch as the Mormons might, perhaps. What a lonely life
                            hers would be if she were away from him! And she was not suited to it.
                            She was not suited to the commercial worldshe was too homey, too
                            housewifely. He wished he could assure her now that she would not have
                            further cause for grief and mean it, but he was like a sick man wishing
                            he could do the things a hale man might. There was no self-conviction in
                            his thoughts, only the idea that if he tried to do right in this matter
                            he might succeed, but he would be unhappy. So he drifted.
                        In the meanwhile Eugene had taken up his work with Deegan  and was going through a very curious
                            experience. At the time Deegan had stated that he would take him he had
                            written to Haverford, making a polite request for transfer, and was
                            immediately informed that his wishes would be granted. Haverford
                            remembered Eugene kindly. He hoped he was improving. He understood from
                            inquiry of the Superintendent of Buildings that Deegan was in need of a
                            capable assistant, anyhow, and that Eugene could well serve in that
                            capacity. The foreman was always in trouble about his reports. An order
                            was issued to Deegan commanding him to receive Eugene, and another to
                            Eugene from the office of the Superintendent of Buildings ordering him
                            to report to Deegan. Eugene went, finding him working on the problem of
                            constructing a coal bin under the depot at Fords Centre, and raising as
                            much storm as ever. He was received with a grin of satisfaction.
                        "So here ye arre. Will, ye're just in time. I want ye
                            to go down to the ahffice."
                        Eugene laughed. "Sure," he said. Deegan was down in a
                            freshly excavated hole and his clothes were redolent of the freshly
                            turned earth which surrounded him. He had a plumb bob in his hand and a
                            spirit level, but he laid them down. Under the neat train shed to which
                            he crawled when Eugene appeared and where they stood, he fished from a
                            pocket of his old gray coat a soiled and crumpled letter which he
                            carefully unfolded with his thick and clumsy fingers. Then he held it up
                            and looked at it defiantly.
                        "I want ye to go to Woodlawn," he continued,
                            "and look after some bolts that arre theyerthere's a
                            keg av thiman' sign the bill fer thim, an' ship thim
                            down to me. They're not miny. An' thin I waant ye to
                            go down to the ahffice an' take thim this O. K." And
                            here he fished around and produced another crumpled slip.
                            "It's nonsinse!" he exclaimed, when he saw
                            it. "It's onraisonable! They're always yillen
                            fer thim O. K. blanks. Ye'd think, begad, I was goin'
                            to steal thim from thim. Ye'd think I lived on thim things. O.
                            K. blanks, O. K. blanks. From mornin' 'til night O. K.
                            blanks. It's nonsinse! It's onraisonable!"
                            And his face flushed a defiant red.
                        Eugene could see that some infraction of the railroad's rules
                            had occurred and that Deegan had been "called down,"
                            or "jacked up" about it, as the railroad men expressed
                            it. He was in a high state of dudgeonas defiant and pugnacious as his
                            royal Irish temper would allow.
                        "I'll fix it," said Eugene.
                            "That's all right. Leave it to me."
                        
                        Deegan showed some signs of approaching relief. At last he had a man of
                            "intilligence," as he would have expressed it. He
                            flung a parting shot though at his superior as Eugene departed.
                        "Tell thim I'll sign fer thim when I git thim and naat
                            before!" he rumbled.
                        Eugene laughed. He knew no such message would be accepted, but he was
                            glad to give Deegan an opportunity to blow off steam. He entered upon
                            his new tasks with vim, pleased with the out-of-doors, the sunshine, the
                            opportunity for brief trips up and down the road like this. It was
                            delightful. He would soon be all right now, that he knew.
                        He went to Woodlawn and signed for the bolts; went to the office and met
                            the chief clerk (delivering the desired O. K. blanks in person) who
                            informed him of the chief difficulty in Deegan's life. It
                            appeared that there were some twenty-five of these reports to be made
                            out monthly, to say nothing of endless O. K. blanks to be filled in with
                            acknowledgments of material received. Everything had to be signed for in
                            this way, it mattered not whether it was a section of a bridge or a
                            single bolt or a pound of putty. If a man could sit down and reel off a
                            graphic report of what he was doing, he was the pride of the chief
                            clerk's heart. His doing the work properly was taken as a
                            matter of course. Deegan was not efficient at this, though he was
                            assisted at times by his wife and all three of his children, a boy and
                            two girls. He was constantly in hot water.
                        "My God!" exclaimed the chief clerk, when Eugene
                            explained that Deegan had thought that he might leave the bolts at the
                            station where they would be safe until he needed them and then sign for
                            them when he took them out. He ran his hands distractedly through his
                            hair. "What do you think of that?" he exclaimed.
                            "He'll leave them there until he needs them, will he?
                            What becomes of my reports? I've got to have those O.
                            K.'s. You tell Deegan he ought to know better than that;
                            he's been long enough on the road. You tell him that I said
                            that I want a signed form for everything consigned to him the moment he
                            learns that it's waiting for him. And I want it without fail.
                            Let him go and get it. The gall! He's got to come to time about
                            this, or something's going to drop. I'm not going to
                            stand it any longer. You'd better help him in this.
                            I've got to make out my reports on time."
                        Eugene agreed that he would. This was his field. He could help Deegan. He
                            could be really useful.
                        Time passed. The weather grew colder, and while the work  was interesting at first, like all other
                            things it began after a time to grow monotonous. It was nice enough when
                            the weather was fine to stand out under the trees, where some culvert
                            was being built to bridge a small rivulet or some well to supply the
                            freight engines with water, and survey the surrounding landscape; but
                            when the weather grew colder it was not so nice. Deegan was always
                            interesting. He was forever raising a ruction. He lived a life of hard,
                            narrow activity laid among boards, wheelbarrows, cement, stone, a life
                            which concerned construction and had no particular joy in fruition. The
                            moment a thing was nicely finished they had to leave it and go where
                            everything would be torn up again. Eugene used to look at the wounded
                            ground, the piles of yellow mud, the dirty Italians, clean enough in
                            their spirit, but soiled and gnarled by their labor, and wonder how much
                            longer he could stand it. To think that he, of all men, should be here
                            working with Deegan and the guineas! He became
                            lonesome at timesterribly, and sad. He longed for Carlotta, longed for a
                            beautiful studio, longed for a luxurious, artistic life. It seemed that
                            life had wronged him terribly, and yet he could do nothing about it. He
                            had no money-making capacity.
                        About this time the construction of a rather pretentious machine shop,
                            two hundred by two hundred feet and four storeys high was assigned to
                            Deegan, largely because of the efficiency which Eugene contributed to
                            Deegan's work. Eugene handled his reports and accounts with
                            rapidity and precision, and this so soothed the division management that
                            they had an opportunity to see Deegan's real worth. The latter
                            was beside himself with excitement, anticipating great credit and
                            distinction for the work he was now to be permitted to de.
                        " 'Tis the foine time we'll have, Eugene, me
                            bye," he exclaimed, "puttin' up that
                            buildin'. 'Tis no culvert we'll be afther
                            buildin' now. Nor no coal bin. Wait till the masons come. Then
                            ye'll see somethin."
                        Eugene was pleased that their work was progressing so successfully, but
                            of course there was no future in it for him. He was lonely and
                            disheartened.
                        Besides, Angela was complaining, and rightfully enough, that they were
                            leading a difficult lifeand to what end, so far as she was concerned? He
                            might recover his health and his art (by reason of his dramatic shake-up
                            and changes he appeared to be doing so), but what would that avail her?
                            He did not love her. If he became prosperous again it might be to
                            forsake her, and at best he could only give her money and position if he
                            ever  attained these, and how would that
                            help? It was love that she wantedhis love. And she did not have that, or
                            only a mere shadow of it. He had made up his mind after this last fatal
                            argument that he would not pretend to anything he did not feel in regard
                            to her, and this made it even harder. She did believe that he
                            sympathized with her in his way, but it was an intellectual sympathy and
                            had very little to do with the heart. He was sorry for her. Sorry!
                            Sorry! How she hated the thought of that! If he could not do any better
                            than that, what was there in all the years to come but misery?
                        A curious fact to be noted about this period was that suspicion had so
                            keyed up Angela's perceptions that she could almost tell, and
                            that without knowing, when Eugene was with Carlottaor had been. There
                            was something about his manner when he came in of an evening, to say
                            nothing of those subtler thought waves which passed from him to her when
                            he was with Carlotta, which told her instantly where he had been and
                            what he had been doing. She would ask him where he had been and he would
                            say: "Oh, up to White Plains" or "out to
                            Scarborough," but nearly always when he had been with Carlotta
                            she would flare up with, "Yes, I know where you've
                            been. You've been out again with that miserable beast of a
                            woman. Oh, God will punish her yet! You will be punished! Wait and
                            see."
                        Tears would flood her eyes and she would berate him roundly.
                        Eugene stood in profound awe before these subtle outbreaks. He could not
                            understand how it was that Angela came to know or suspect so accurately.
                            To a certain extent he was a believer in spiritualism and the mysteries
                            of a subconscious mind or self. He fancied that there must be some way
                            of this subconscious self seeing or apprehending what was going on and
                            of communicating its knowledge in the form of fear and suspicion to
                            Angela's mind. If the very subtleties of nature were in league
                            against him, how was he to continue or profit in this career? Obviously
                            it could not be done. He would probably be severely punished for it. He
                            was half terrified by the vague suspicion that there might be some laws
                            which tended to correct in this way all the abuses in nature. There
                            might be much vice and crime going seemingly unpunished, but there might
                            also be much correction going on, as the suicides and deaths and cases
                            of insanity seemed to attest. Was this true? Was there no escape from
                            the results of evil except by abandoning it entirely? He pondered over
                            this gravely.
                        
                        Getting on his feet again financially was not such an easy thing. He had
                            been out of touch now so long with thing artisticthe magazine world and
                            the art agenciesthat he felt as if he might not readily be able to get
                            in touch again. Besides he was not at all sure of himself. He had made
                            sketches of men and things at Speonk, and of Deegan and his gang on the
                            road, and of Carlotta and Angela, but he felt that they were weak in
                            their importlacking in the force and feeling which had once
                            characterized his work. He thought of trying his hand at newspaper work
                            if he could make any sort of a connectionworking in some obscure
                            newspaper art department until he should feel himself able to do better;
                            but he did not feel at all confident that he could get that. His severe
                            breakdown had made him afraid of lifemade him yearn for the sympathy of
                            a woman like Carlotta, or of a larger more hopeful, more tender
                            attitude, and he dreaded looking for anything anywhere. Besides he hated
                            to spare the time unless he were going to get somewhere. His work was so
                            pressing. But he knew he must quit it. He thought about it wearily,
                            wishing he were better placed in this world; and finally screwed up his
                            courage to leave this work, though it was not until something else was
                            quite safely in his hands.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XXX
                        IT was only after a considerable lapse of time, when trying to live on
                            nine dollars a week and seeing Angela struggle almost hopelessly in her
                            determination to live on what he earned and put a little aside, that he
                            came to his senses and made a sincere effort to find something better.
                            During all this time he had been watching her narrowly, seeing how
                            systematically she did all her own house work, even under these adverse
                            and trying circumstances, cooking, cleaning, marketing. She made over
                            her old clothes, reshaping them so that they would last longer and still
                            look stylish. She made her own hats, doing everything in short that she
                            could to make the money in the bank hold out until Eugene should be on
                            his feet. She was willing that he should take money and buy himself
                            clothes when she was not willing to spend it on herself. She was living
                            in the hope that somehow he would reform. Consciousness of what she was
                            worth to him might some day strike him. Still she did not feel that
                            things could ever be quite the same again. She could never forget, and
                            neither could he.
                        The affair between Eugene and Carlotta, because of the various forces
                            that were militating against it, was now slowly drawing to a close. It
                            had not been able to endure all the storm and stress which followed its
                            discovery. For one thing, Carlotta's mother, without telling
                            her husband, made him feel that he had good cause to stay about, which
                            made it difficult for Carlotta to act. Besides she charged her daughter
                            constantly, much as Angela was charging Eugene, with the utmost
                            dissoluteness of character and was as constantly putting her on the
                            defensive. She was too hedged about to risk a separate apartment, and
                            Eugene would not accept money from her to pay for expensive indoor
                            entertainment. She wanted to see him but she kept hoping he would get to
                            the point where he would have a studio again and she could see him as a
                            star in his own field. That would be so much nicer.
                        By degrees their once exciting engagements began to lapse, and despite
                            his grief Eugene was not altogether sorry. To tell the truth, great
                            physical discomfort recently had painted his romantic tendencies in a
                            very sorry light for him. He thought he saw in a way where they were
                            leading him. That there was no money in them was obvious. That the
                            affairs of the  world were put in the
                            hands of those who were content to get their life's happiness
                            out of their management, seemed quite plain. Idlers had nothing as a
                            rule, not even the respect of their fellow men. The licentious were worn
                            threadbare and disgraced by their ridiculous and psychologically
                            diseased propensities. Women and men who indulged in these unbridled
                            relations were sickly sentimentalists, as a rule, and were thrown out or
                            ignored by all forceful society. One had to be strong, eager, determined
                            and abstemiou if wealth was to come, and then it had to be held by the
                            same qualities. One could not relax. Otherwise one became much what he
                            was now, a brooding sentimentalistdiseased in mind and body.
                        So out of love-excitement and poverty and ill health and abuse he was
                            coming to see or thought he was this one fact clearly,namely that he
                            must behave himself if he truly wished to succeed. Did he want to? He
                            could not say that. But he had tothat was the sad part of itand since
                            apparently he had to, he would do the best he could. It was grim but it
                            was essential.
                        At this time Eugene still retained that rather ultra artistic appearance
                            which had characterized his earlier years, but he began to suspect that
                            on this score he was a little bizarre and out of keeping with the spirit
                            of the times. Certain artists whom he met in times past and recently,
                            were quite commercial in their appearancethe very successful onesand he
                            decided that it was because they put the emphasis upon the hard facts of
                            life and not upon the romance connected with their work. It impressed
                            him and he decided to do likewise, abandoning the flowing tie and the
                            rather indiscriminate manner he had of combing his hair, and thereafter
                            affected severe simplicity. He still wore a soft hat because he thought
                            it became him best, but otherwise he toned himself down greatly. His
                            work with Deegan had given him a sharp impression of what hard, earnest
                            labor meant. Deegan was nothing but a worker. There was no romance in
                            him. He knew nothing about romance. Picks and shovels and mortar boards
                            and concrete formssuch was his life, and he never complained. Eugene
                            remembered commiserating him once on having to get up at four A. M. in
                            order to take a train which would get to work by seven. Darkness and
                            cold made no difference to him, however.
                        "Shewer, I have to be theyre," he had replied with his
                            quizzical Irish grin. "They're not payin' me
                            me wages fer lyin' in bed. If ye were to get up that way every
                            day fer a year it would make a man of ye!"
                        
                        "Oh, no," said Eugene teasingly.
                        "Oh, yes," said Deegan, "it would.
                            An' yere the wan that's needin' it. I can
                            tell that by the cut av ye."
                        Eugene resented this but it stayed by him. Deegan had the habit of
                            driving home salutary lessons in regard to work and abstemiousness
                            without really meaning to. The two were wholly representative of himjust
                            those two things and nothing more.
                        One day he went down into Printing House Square to see if he could not
                            make up his mind to apply at one of the newspaper art departments, when
                            he ran into Hudson Dula whom he had not seen for a long while. The
                            latter was delighted to see him.
                        "Why, hello, Witla!" he exclaimed, shocked to see that
                            he was exceptionally thin and pale. "Where have you been all
                            these years? I'm delighted to see you. What have you been
                            doing? Let's go over here to Hahn's and you tell me
                            all about yourself."
                        "I've been sick, Dula," said Eugene frankly.
                            "I had a severe case of nervous breakdown and I've
                            been working on the railroad for a change. I tried all sorts of
                            specialists, but they couldn't help me. So I decided to go to
                            work by the day and see what that would do. I got all out of sorts with
                            myself and I've been pretty near four years getting back. I
                            think I am getting better, though. I'm going to knock off on
                            the road one of these days and try my hand at painting again. I think I
                            can do it."
                        "Isn't that curious," replied Dula
                            reminiscently, "I was just thinking of you the other day and
                            wondering where you were. You know I've quit the art director
                            game. Truth failed and I went into the lithographic
                            business. I have a small interest in a plant that I'm managing
                            down in Bond Street. I wish you'd come in and see me some
                            day."
                        "I certainly will," said Eugene.
                        "Now this nervousness of yours," said Dula, as they
                            strolled into the restaurant where they were dining. "I have a
                            brother-in-law that was hit that way. He's still doctoring
                            around. I'm going to tell him about your case. You
                            don't look so bad."
                        "I'm feeling much better," said Eugene.
                            "I really am but I've had a bad spell of it.
                            I'm going to come back in the game, though, I feel sure of it.
                            When I do I'll know better how to take care of myself. I
                            over-worked on that first burst of pictures."
                        "I must say that was the best stuff of that kind I ever saw done
                            in this country," said Dula. "I saw both your shows,
                                 as you remember. They were splendid.
                            What became of all those pictures?"
                        "Oh, some were sold and the rest are in storage,"
                            replied Eugene.
                        "Curious, isn't it," said Dula. "I
                            should have thought all those things would have been purchased. They
                            were so new and forceful in treatment. You want to pull yourself
                            together and stay pulled. You're going to have a great future
                            in that field."
                        "Oh, I don't know," replied Eugene
                            pessimistically. "It's all right to obtain a big
                            reputation, but you can't live on that, you know. Pictures
                            don't sell very well over here. I have most of mine left. A
                            grocer with one delivery wagon has the best artist that ever lived
                            backed right off the board for financial results."
                        "Not quite as bad as that," said Dula smilingly.
                            "An artist has something which a tradesman can never haveyou
                            want to remember that. His point of view is worth something. He lives in
                            a different world spiritually. And then financially you can do well
                            enoughyou can live, and what more do you want? You're received
                            everywhere. You have what the tradesman cannot possibly
                            attaindistinction; and you give the world a standard of merityou will,
                            at least. If I had your ability I would never sit about envying any
                            butcher or baker. Why, all the artists know you nowthe good ones,
                            anyhow. It only remains for you to do more, to obtain more. There are
                            lots of things you can do."
                        "What, for instance?" asked Eugene.
                        "Why, ceilings, mural decorations. I was saying to someone the
                            other day what a mistake it was the Boston Library did not assign some
                            of their panels to you. You would make splendid things of
                            them."
                        "You certainly have a world of faith in me," replied
                            Eugene, tingling warmly. It was like a glowing fire to hear this after
                            all the dreary days. Then the world still remembered him. He was worth
                            while.
                        "Do you remember Oren Benedictyou used to know him out in
                            Chicago, didn't you?"
                        "I certainly did," replied Eugene. "I worked
                            with him."
                        "He's down on the World now, in
                            charge of the art department there. He's just gone
                            there." Then as Eugene exclaimed over the curious shifts of
                            time, he suddenly added, "Why wouldn't that be a good
                            idea for you? You say you're just about to knock off. Why
                            don't you go down and do some 
                            pen work to get your hand in? It would be a good experience for you.
                            Benedict would be glad to put you on, I'm sure."
                        Dula suspected that Eugene might be out of funds, and this would be an
                            easy way for him to slip into something which would lead back to studio
                            work. He liked Eugene. He was anxious to see him get along. It flattered
                            him to think he had been the first to publish his work in color.
                        "That isn't a bad idea," said Eugene.
                            "I was really thinking of doing something like that if I could.
                            I'll go up and see him maybe today. It would be just the thing
                            I need now,a little preliminary practise. I feel rather rusty and
                            uncertain."
                        "I'll call him up, if you want," said Dula
                            generously. "I know him well. He was asking me the other day if
                            I knew one or two exceptional men. You wait here a minute."
                        Eugene leaned back in his chair as Dula left. Could it be that he was
                            going to be restored thus easily to something better? He had thought it
                            would be so hard. Now this chance was coming to lift him out of his
                            sufferings at the right time.
                        Dula came back. "He says `Sure,'" he
                            exclaimed. "`Come right down!' You'd better
                            go down there this afternoon. That'll be just the thing for
                            you. And when you are placed again, come around and see me. Where are
                            you living?"
                        Eugene gave him his address.
                        "That's tight, you're married," he
                            added, when Eugene spoke of himself and Angela having a small place.
                            "How is Mrs. Witla? I remember her as a very charming woman.
                            Mrs. Dula and I have an apartment in Gramercy Place. You didn't
                            know I had tied up, did you? Well, I have. Bring your wife and come to
                            see us. We'll be delighted. I'll make a dinner date
                            for you two."
                        Eugene was greatly pleased and elated. He knew Angela would be. They had
                            seen nothing of artistic life lately. He hurried down to see Benedict
                            and was greeted as an old acquaintance. They had never been very chummy
                            but always friendly. Benedict had heard of Eugene's nervous
                            breakdown.
                        "Well, I'll tell you," he said, after greeting
                            and reminiscences were over, "I can't pay very
                            muchfifty dollars is high here just at present, and I have just one
                            vacancy now at twenty-five which you can have if you want to try your
                            hand. There's a good deal of hurry up about at times, but you
                            don't mind that. When I get things straightened out here I may
                            have something better."
                        "Oh, that's all right," replied Eugene
                            cheerfully. "I'm glad 
                            to get that." (He was very glad indeed.) "And I
                            don't mind the hurry. It will be good for a
                            change."
                        Benedict gave him a friendly handshake in farewell. He was glad to have
                            him, for he knew what he could do.
                        "I don't think I can come before Monday. I have to give
                            a few days' notice. Is that all right?"
                        "I could use you earlier, but Monday will do," said
                            Benedict, and they parted genially.
                        Eugene hurried back home. He was delighted to tell Angela, for this would
                            rob their condition of part of its gloom. It was no great comfort to him
                            to be starting in as a newspaper artist again at twenty-five dollars a
                            week, but it couldn't be helped, and it was better than
                            nothing. At least it was putting him back on the track again. He was
                            sure to do still better after this. He could hold this newspaper job, he
                            felt, and outside that he didn't care very much for the time
                            being; his pride had received some severe jolts. It was vastly better
                            than day labor, anyway. He hurried up the four flights of stairs to the
                            cheap little quarters they occupied, saying when he saw Angela at the
                            gas range: "Well, I guess our railroad days are
                            over."
                        "What's the trouble?" asked Angela
                            apprehensively.
                        "No trouble," he replied. "I have a better
                            job."
                        "What is it?"
                        "I'm going to be a newspaper artist for a while on the
                                World."
                        
                        "When did you find that out?" she asked, brightening,
                            for she had been terribly depressed over their state.
                        "This afternoon. I'm going to work Monday. Twenty-five
                            dollars will be some better than nine, won't it?"
                        Angela smiled. "It certainly will," she said, and tears
                            of thanksgiving filled her eyes.
                        Eugene knew what those tears stood for. He was anxious to avoid painful
                            reminiscences.
                        "Don't cry," he said. "Things are
                            going to be much better from now on."
                        "Oh, I hope so, I hope so," she murmured, and he patted
                            her head affectionately as it rested on his shoulder.
                        "There now. Cheer up, girlie, will you! We're going to
                            be all right from now on."
                        Angela smiled through her tears. She set the table, exceedingly
                            cheerful.
                        "That certainly is good news," she laughed afterward.
                            "But we're not going to spend any more money for a
                            long while,  anyhow. We're going
                            to save something. We don't want to get in this hole
                            again."
                        "No more for mine," replied Eugene gaily, "not
                            if I know my business," and he went into the one little
                            combination parlor, sitting room, reception room and general room of all
                            work, to open his evening newspaper and whistle. In his excitement he
                            almost forgot his woes over Carlotta and the love question in general.
                            He was going to climb again in the world and be happy with Angela. He
                            was going to be an artist or a business man or something. Look at Hudson
                            Dula. Owning a lithographic business and living in Gramercy Place. Could
                            any artist he knew do that? Scarcely. He would see about this. He would
                            think this art business over. Maybe he could be an art director or a
                            lithographer or something. He had often thought while he was with the
                            road that he could be a good superintendent of buildings if he could
                            only give it time enough.
                        Angela, for her part, was wondering what this change really spelled for
                            her. Would he behave now? Would he set himself to the task of climbing
                            slowly and surely? He was getting along in life. He ought to begin to
                            place himself securely in the world if he ever was going to. Her love
                            was not the same as it had formerly been. It was crossed with dislike
                            and opposition at times, but still she felt that he needed her to help
                            him. Poor Eugeneif he only were not cursed with this weakness. Perhaps
                            he would overcome it? So she mused.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XXXI
                        THE work which Eugene undertook in connection with the art department of
                            the World was not different from that which he had
                            done ten years before in Chicago. It seemed no less difficult for all
                            his experiencemore so if anything, for he felt above it these days and
                            consequently out of place. He wished at once that he could get something
                            which would pay him commensurately with his ability. To sit down among
                            mere boysthere were men there as old as himself and older, though, of
                            course, he did not pay so much attention to themwas galling. He thought
                            Benedict should have had more respect for his talent than to have
                            offered him so little, though at the same time he was grateful for what
                            he had received. He undertook energetically to carry out all the
                            suggestions given him, and surprised his superior with the speed and
                            imagination with which he developed everything. He surprised Benedict
                            the second day with a splendid imaginative interpretation of
                            "the Black Death," which was to accompany a Sunday
                            newspaper article upon the modern possibilities of plagues. The latter
                            saw at once that Eugene could probably only be retained a very little
                            while at the figure he had given him. He had made the mistake of
                            starting him low, thinking that Eugene's talent after so severe
                            an illness might be at a very low ebb. He did not know, being new to the
                            art directorship of a newspaper, how very difficult it was to get
                            increases for those under him. An advance of ten dollars to anyone meant
                            earnest representation and an argument with the business manager, and to
                            double and treble the salary, which should have been done in this case,
                            was out of the question. Six months was a reasonable length of time for
                            anyone to wait for an increasesuch was the dictate of the business
                            managementand in Eugene's case it was ridiculous and unfair.
                            However, being still sick and apprehensive, he was content to abide by
                            the situation, hoping with returning strength and the saving of a little
                            money to put himself right eventually.
                        Angela, of course, was pleased with the turn of affairs. Having suffered
                            so long with only prospects of something worse in store, it was a great
                            relief to go to the bank every TuesdayEugene was paid on Mondayand
                            deposit ten dollars against a rainy day. It was agreed between them that
                            they might use six for clothing, which Angela and Eugene very much
                            needed,  and some slight entertainment. It
                            was not long before Eugene began to bring an occasional newspaper artist
                            friend up to dinner, and they were invited out. They had gone without
                            much clothing, with scarcely a single visit to the theatre, without
                            friendseverything. Now the tide began slowly to change; in a little
                            while, because they were more free to go to places, they began to
                            encounter people whom they knew.
                        There was six months of the drifting journalistic work, in which as in
                            his railroad work he grew more and more restless, and then there came a
                            time when he felt as if he could not stand that for another minute. He
                            had been raised to thirty-five dollars and then fifty, but it was a
                            terrific grind of exaggerated and to him thoroughly meretricious art.
                            The only valuable results in connection with it were that for the first
                            time in his life he was drawing a moderately secure living salary, and
                            that his mind was fully occupied with details which gave him no time to
                            think about himself. He was in a large room surrounded by other men who
                            were as sharp as knives in their thrusts of wit, and restless and greedy
                            in their attitude toward the world. They wanted to live brilliantly,
                            just as he did, only they had more self-confidence and in many cases
                            that extreme poise which comes of rare good health. They were inclined
                            to think he was somewhat of a poseur at first, but later they came to
                            like himall of them. He had a winning smile and his love of a joke, so
                            keen, so body-shaking, drew to him all those who had a good story to
                            tell.
                        "Tell that to Witla," was a common phrase about the
                            office and Eugene was always listening to someone. He came to lunching
                            with first one and then another, then three or four at a time; and by
                            degrees Angela was compelled to entertain Eugene and two or three of his
                            friends twice and sometimes three times a week. She objected greatly,
                            and there was some feeling over that, for she had no maid and she did
                            not think that Eugene ought to begin so soon to put the burden of
                            entertainment upon their slender income. She wanted him to make these
                            things very formal and by appointment, but Eugene would stroll in
                            genially, explaining that he had Irving Nelson with him, or Henry Hare,
                            or George Beers, and asking nervously at the last minute whether it was
                            all right. Angela would say, "Certainly, to be sure,"
                            in front of the guests, but when they were alone there would be tears
                            and reproaches and firm declarations that she would not stand it.
                        "Well, I won't do it any more," Eugene would
                            apologize. "I forgot, you know."
                        
                        Still he wanted Angela to get a maid and let him bring all who would
                            come. It was a great relief to get back into the swing of things and see
                            life broadening out once more.
                        It was not so long after he had grown exceedingly weary of his underpaid
                            relationship to the World that he heard of something
                            which promised a much better avenue of advancement. Eugene had been
                            hearing for some time from one source and another of the development of
                            art in advertising. He had read one or two articles on the subject in
                            the smaller magazines, had seen from time to time curious and sometimes
                            beautiful series of ads run by first one corporation and then another,
                            advertising some product. He had always fancied in looking at these
                            things that he could get up a notable series on almost any subject, and
                            he wondered who handled these things. He asked Benedict one night, going
                            up on the car with him, what he knew about it.
                        "Why so far as I know," said Benedict, "that
                            is coming to be quite a business. There is a man out in Chicago,
                            Saljerian, an American Syrianhis father was a Syrian, but he was born
                            over herewho has built up a tremendous business out of designing series
                            of ads like that for big corporations. He got up that Molly Maguire
                            series for the new cleaning fluid. I don't think he does any of
                            the work himself. He hires artists to do it. Some of the best men, I
                            understand, have done work for him. He gets splendid prices. Then some
                            of the big advertising agencies are taking up that work. One of them I
                            know. The Summerville Company has a big art department in connection
                            with it. They employ fifteen to eighteen men all the time, sometimes
                            more. They turn out some fine ads, too, to my way of thinking. Do you
                            remember that Korno series?"Benedict was referring to a
                            breakfast food which had been advertised by a succession of ten very
                            beautiful and very clever pictures.
                        "Yes," replied Eugene.
                        "Well, they did that."
                        Eugene thought of this as a most interesting development. Since the days
                            in which he worked on the Alexandria Appeal he had
                            been interested in ads. The thought of ad creation took his fancy. It
                            was newer than anything else he had encountered recently. He wondered if
                            there would not be some chance in that field for him. His paintings were
                            not selling. He had not the courage to start a new series. If he could
                            make some money first, say ten thousand dollars, so that he could get an
                            interest income of say six or seven hundred dollars  a year, he might be willing to risk art for art's
                            sake. He had suffered too muchpoverty had scared him so that he was very
                            anxious to lean on a salary or a business income for the time being.
                        It was while he was speculating over this almost daily that there came to
                            him one day a young artist who had formerly worked on the Worlda youth by the name of MorgenbauAdolph Morgenbauwho
                            admired Eugene and his work greatly and who had since gone to another
                            paper. He was very anxious to tell Eugene something, for he had heard of
                            a change coming in the art directorship of the Summerville Company and
                            he fancied for one reason and another that Eugene might be glad to know
                            of it. Eugene had never looked to Morgenbau like a man who ought to be
                            working in a newspaper art department. He was too self-poised, too
                            superior, too wise. Morgenbau had conceived the idea that Eugene was
                            destined to make a great hit of some kind and with that kindling
                            intuition that sometimes saves us whole he was anxious to help Eugene in
                            some way and so gain his favor.
                        "I have something I'd like to tell you, Mr.
                            Witla," he observed.
                        "Well, what is it?" smiled Eugene.
                        "Are you going out to lunch?"
                        "Certainly, come along."
                        They went out together and Morgenbau communicated to Eugene what he had
                            heardthat the Summerfield Company had just dismissed, or parted company
                            with, or lost, a very capable director by the name of Freeman, and that
                            they were looking for a new man.
                        "Why don't you apply for that?" asked
                            Morgenbau. "You could hold it. You're doing just the
                            sort of work that would make great ads. You know how to handle men, too.
                            They like you. All the young fellows around here do. Why don't
                            you go and see Mr. Summerfield? He's up in Thirty-fourth
                            Street. You might be just the man he's looking for, and then
                            you'd have a department of your own."
                        Eugene looked at this boy, wondering what had put this idea in his head.
                            He decided to call up Dula and did so at once, asking him what he
                            thought would be the best move to make. The latter did not know
                            Summerville, but he knew someone who did.
                        "I'll tell you what you do, Eugene," he said.
                            "You go and see Baker Bates of the Satina Company.
                            That's at the corner of Broadway and Fourth Street. We do a big
                            business  with the Satina Company, and
                            they do a big business with Summerfield. I'll send a letter
                            over to you by a boy and you take that. Then I'll call Bates up
                            on the phone, and if he's favorable he can speak to
                            Summerfield. He'll want to see you, though."
                        Eugene was very grateful and eagerly awaited the arrival of the letter.
                            He asked Benedict for a little time off and went to Mr. Baker Bates. The
                            latter had heard enough from Dula to be friendly. He had been told by
                            the latter that Eugene was potentially a great artist, slightly down on
                            his luck, but that he was doing exceedingly well where he was and would
                            do better in the new place. He was impressed by Eugene's
                            appearance, for the latter had changed his style from the semiartistic
                            to the practical. He thought Eugene looked capable. He was certainly
                            pleasant.
                        "I'll talk to Mr. Summerfield for you," he
                            said, "though I wouldn't put much hope in what will
                            come of it if I were you. He's a difficult man and
                            it's best not to appear too eager in this matter. If he can be
                            induced to send for you it will be much better. You let this rest until
                            tomorrow. I'll call him up on another matter and take him out
                            to lunch, and then I'll see how he stands and whom he has in
                            mind, if he has anyone. He may have, you know. If there is a real
                            opening I'll speak of you. We'll see."
                        Eugene went away once more, very grateful. He was thinking that Dula had
                            always meant good luck to him. He had taken his first important drawing.
                            The pictures he had published for him had brought him the favor of M.
                            Charles. Dula had secured him the position that he now had. Would he be
                            the cause of his getting this one?
                        On the way down town on the car he encountered a cross-eyed boy. He had
                            understood from someone recently that cross-eyed boys were good
                            luckcross-eyed women bad luck. A thrill of hopeful prognostication
                            passed over him. In all likelihood he was going to get this place. If
                            this sign came true this time, he would believe in signs. They had come
                            true before, but this would be a real test. He stared cheerfully at the
                            boy and the latter looked him full in the eyes and grinned.
                        "That settles it!" said Eugene. "I'm
                            going to get it."
                        Still he was far from being absolutely sure.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XXXII
                        THE Summerfield Advertising Agency, of which Mr. Daniel C. Summerfield
                            was president, was one of those curious exfoliations or efflorescences
                            of the personality of a single individual which is so often met with in
                            the business world, and which always means a remarkable individual
                            behind them. The ideas, the enthusiasm, the strength of Mr. Daniel C.
                            Summerfield was all there was to the Summerfield Advertising Agency. It
                            was true there was a large force of men working for him, advertising
                            canvassers, advertising writers, financial accountants, artists,
                            stenographers, book-keepers and the like, but they were all as it were
                            an emanation or irradiation of the personality of Mr. Daniel C.
                            Summerfield. He was small, wiry, black-haired, black-eyed,
                            black-mustached, with an olive complexion and even, pleasing, albeit at
                            times wolfish, white teeth which indicated a disposition as avid and
                            hungry as a disposition well might be.
                        Mr. Summerfield had come up into his present state of affluence or
                            comparative affluence from the direst poverty and by the directest
                            routehis personal efforts. In the State in which he had originated,
                            Alabama, his family had been known, in the small circle to which they
                            were known at all, as poor white trash. His father had been a rather
                            lackadaisical, half-starved cotton planter who had been satisfied with a
                            single bale or less of cotton to the acre on the ground which he leased,
                            and who drove a lean mule very much the worse for age and wear, up and
                            down the furrows of his leaner fields the while he complained of
                            "the misery" in his breast. He was afflicted with slow
                            consumption or thought he was, which was just as effective, and in
                            addition had hook-worm, though that parasitic producer of hopeless
                            tiredness was not yet discovered and named.
                        Daniel Christopher, his eldest son, had been raised with scarcely any
                            education, having been put in a cotton mill at the age of seven, but
                            nevertheless he soon manifested himself as the brain of the family. For
                            four years he worked in the cotton mill, and then, because of his
                            unusual brightness, he had been given a place in the printing shop of
                            the Wickham Union, where he was so attractive to the slow-going
                            proprietor that he soon became foreman of the printing department and
                            then manager. He knew nothing of printing or newspapers at the time, but
                            the little contact he obtained here soon cleared  his vision. He saw instantly what the newspaper business
                            was, and decided to enter it. Later, as he grew older, he suspected that
                            no one knew very much about advertising as yet, or very little, and that
                            he was called by God to revise it. With this vision of a still wider
                            field of usefulness in his mind, he began at once to prepare himself for
                            it, reading all manner of advertising literature and practising the art
                            of display and effective statement. He had been through such bitter
                            things as personal fights with those who worked under him, knocking one
                            man down with a heavy iron form key; personal altercation with his own
                            father and mother in which he frankly told them that they were failures,
                            and that they had better let him show them something about regulating
                            their hopeless lives. He had quarreled with his younger brothers, trying
                            to dominate them, and had succeeded in controlling the youngest,
                            principally for the very good reason that he had become foolishly fond
                            of him; this younger brother he later introduced into his advertising
                            business. He had religiously saved the little he had earned thus far,
                            invested a part of it in the further development of the Wickham Union, bought his father an eight acre farm, which he
                            showed him how to work, and finally decided to come to New York to see
                            if he could not connect himself with some important advertising concern
                            where he could learn something more about the one thing that interested
                            him. He was already married, and he brought his young wife with him from
                            the South.
                        He soon connected himself as a canvasser with one of the great agencies
                            and advanced rapidly. He was so smiling, so bland, so insistent, so
                            magnetic, that business came to him rapidly. He became the star man in
                            this New York concern and Alfred Cookman, who was its owner and manager,
                            was soon pondering what he could do to retain him. No individual or
                            concern could long retain Daniel C. Summerfield, however, once he
                            understood his personal capabilities. In two years he had learned all
                            that Alfred Cookman had to teach him and more than he could teach him.
                            He knew his customers and what their needs were, and where the lack was
                            in the service which Mr. Cookman rendered them. He foresaw the drift
                            toward artistic representation of saleable products, and decided to go
                            into that side of it. He would start an agency which would render a
                            service so complete and dramatic that anyone who could afford to use his
                            service would make money.
                        When Eugene first heard of this agency, the Summerfield concern was six
                            years old and rapidly growing. It was already  very large and profitable and as hard and forceful as its
                            owner. Daniel C. Summerfield, sitting in his private office, was
                            absolutely ruthless in his calculations as to men. He had studied the
                            life of Napoleon and had come to the conclusion that no individual life
                            was important. Mercy was a joke to be eliminated from business.
                            Sentiment was silly twaddle. The thing to do was to hire men as cheaply
                            as possible, to drive them as vigorously as possible, and to dispose of
                            them quickly when they showed signs of weakening under the strain. He
                            had already had five art directors in as many years, had "hired
                            and fired," as he termed it, innumerable canvassers, ad
                            writers, book-keepers, stenographers, artistsgetting rid of anyone and
                            everyone who showed the least sign of incapacity or inefficiency. The
                            great office floor which he maintained was a model of cleanliness,
                            orderone might almost say beauty of a commercial sort, but it was the
                            cleanliness, order and beauty of a hard, polished and well-oiled
                            machine. Daniel C. Summerfield was not much more than that, but he had
                            long ago decided that was what he must be in order not to be a failure,
                            a fool, and as he called it, "a mark," and he admired
                            himself for being so.
                        When Mr. Baker Bates at Hudson Dula's request went to Mr.
                            Summerfield in regard to the rumored vacancy which really existed, the
                            latter was in a most receptive frame of mind. He had just come into two
                            very important advertising contracts which required a lot of imagination
                            and artistic skill to execute, and he had lost his art director because
                            of a row over a former contract. It was true that in very many casesin
                            most cases, in facthis customers had very definite ideas as to what they
                            wanted to say and how they wanted to say it, but not always. They were
                            almost always open to suggestions as to modifications and improvements,
                            and in a number of very important cases they were willing to leave the
                            entire theory of procedure to the Summerfield Advertising Company. This
                            called for rare good judgment not only in the preparation, but in the
                            placing of these ads, and it was in the matter of their preparationthe
                            many striking ideas which they should embodythat the judgment and
                            assistance of a capable art director of real imagination was most
                            valuable.
                        As has already been said, Mr. Summerfield had had five art directors in
                            almost as many years. In each case he had used the Napoleonic method of
                            throwing a fresh, unwearied mind into the breach of difficulty, and when
                            it wearied or broke under the strain, tossing it briskly out. There was
                            no compunction  or pity connected with any
                            detail of this method. "I hire good men and I pay them good
                            wages," was his favorite comment. "Why
                            shouldn't I expect good results?" If he was wearied or
                            angered by failure he was prone to exclaim"These Goddamned
                            cattle of artists! What can you expect of them? They don't know
                            anything outside their little theory of how things ought to look. They
                            don't know anything about life. Why, God damn it,
                            they're like a lot of children. Why should anybody pay any
                            attention to what they think? Who cares what they think? They give me a
                            pain in the neck." Mr. Daniel C. Summerfield was very much
                            given to swearing, more as a matter of habit than of foul intention, and
                            no picture of him would be complete without the interpolation of his
                            favorite expressions.
                        When Eugene appeared on the horizon as a possible applicant for this
                            delightful position, Mr. Daniel C. Summerfield was debating with himself
                            just what he should do in connection with the two new contracts in
                            question. The advertisers were awaiting his suggestions eagerly. One was
                            for the nation-wide advertising of a new brand of sugar, the second for
                            the international display of ideas in connection with a series of French
                            perfumes, the sale of which depended largely upon the beauty with which
                            they could be interpreted to the lay mind. The latter were not only to
                            be advertised in the United States and Canada, but in Mexico also, and
                            the fulfilment of the contracts in either case was dependent upon the
                            approval given by the advertisers to the designs for newspaper, car and
                            billboard advertising which he should submit. It was a ticklish
                            business, worth two hundred thousand dollars in ultimate profits, and
                            naturally he was anxious that the man who should sit in the seat of
                            authority in his art department should be one of real force and talenta
                            genius if possible, who should, through his ideas, help him win his
                            golden harvest.
                        The right man naturally was hard to find. The last man had been only
                            fairly capable. He was dignified, meditative, thoughtful, with
                            considerable taste and apprehension as to what the material situation
                            required in driving home simple ideas, but he had no great imaginative
                            grasp of life. In fact no man who had ever sat in the
                            director's chair had ever really suited Mr. Summerfield.
                            According to him they had all been weaklings. "Dubs; fakes; hot
                            air artists," were some of his descriptions of them. Their
                            problem, however, was a hard one, for they had to think very vigorously
                            in connection with any product which he might be trying to market, and
                            to offer him endless suggestions  as to
                            what would be the next best thing for a manufacturer to say or do to
                            attract attention to what he had to sell. It might be a catch phrase
                            such as "Have You Seen This New Soap?" or "Do
                            You Know Soresda?It's Red." It might be that a novelty
                            in the way of hand or finger, eye or mouth was all that was required,
                            carrying some appropriate explanation in type. Sometimes, as in the case
                            of very practical products, their very practical display in some clear,
                            interesting, attractive way was all that was needed. In most cases,
                            though, something radically new was required, for it was the theory of
                            Mr. Summerfield that his ads must not only arrest the eye, but fix
                            themselves in the memory, and convey a fact which was or at least could
                            be made to seem important to the reader. It was a struggling with one of
                            the deepest and most interesting phases of human psychology.
                        The last man, Older Freeman, had been of considerable use to him in his
                            way. He had collected about him a number of fairly capable artistsmen
                            temporarily down on their luckwho like Eugene were willing to take a
                            working position of this character, and from them he had extracted by
                            dint of pleading, cajoling, demonstrating and the like a number of
                            interesting ideas. Their working hours were from nine to five-thirty,
                            their pay meagreeighteen to thirty-five, with experts drawing in several
                            instances fifty and sixty dollars, and their tasks innumerable and
                            really never-ending. Their output was regulated by a tabulated record
                            system which kept account of just how much they succeeded in
                            accomplishing in a week, and how much it was worth to the concern. The
                            ideas on which they worked were more or less products of the brains of
                            the art director and his superior, though they occasionally themselves
                            made important suggestions, but for their proper execution, the amount
                            of time spent on them, the failures sustained, the art director was more
                            or less responsible. He could not carry to his employer a poor drawing
                            of a good idea, or a poor idea for something which required a superior
                            thought, and long hope to retain his position. Mr. Daniel C. Summerfield
                            was too shrewd and too exacting. He was really tireless in his energy.
                            It was his art director's business, he thought, to get him good
                            ideas for good drawings and then to see that they were properly and
                            speedily executed.
                        Anything less than this was sickening failure in the eyes of Mr.
                            Summerfield, and he was not at all bashful in expressing himself. As a
                            matter of fact, he was at times terribly brutal. "Why the hell
                            do you show me a thing like that?" he once  exclaimed to Freeman. "Jesus Christ; I could hire
                            an ashman and get better results. Why, God damn it, look at the drawing
                            of the arm of that woman. Look at her ear. Whose going to take a thing
                            like that? It's tame! It's punk! It's a joke!
                            What sort of cattle have you got out there working for you, anyhow? Why,
                            if the Summerfield Advertising Company can't do better than
                            that I might as well shut up the place and go fishing. We'll be
                            a joke in six weeks. Don't try to hand me any such God damned
                            tripe as that, Freeman. You know better. You ought to know our
                            advertisers wouldn't stand for anything like that. Wake up!
                            I'm paying you five thousand a year. How do you expect
                            I'm going to get my money back out of any such arrangement as
                            that? You're simply wasting my money and your time letting a
                            man draw a thing like that. Hell!!"
                        The art director, whoever he was, having been by degrees initiated into
                            the brutalities of the situation, and havingby reason of the time he had
                            been employed and the privileges he had permitted himself on account of
                            his comfortable and probably never before experienced salarysold himself
                            into bondage to his now fancied necessities, was usually humble and
                            tractable under the most galling fire. Where could he go and get five
                            thousand dollars a year for his services? How could he live at the rate
                            he was living if he lost this place? Art directorships were not
                            numerous. Men who could fill them fairly acceptably were not impossible
                            to find. If he thought at all and was not a heaven-born genius serene in
                            the knowledge of his God-given powers, he was very apt to hesitate, to
                            worry, to be humble and to endure a good deal. Most men under similar
                            circumstances do the same thing. They think before they fling back into
                            the teeth of their oppressors some of the durs and brutal
                            characterizations which so frequently issue therefrom. Most men do.
                            Besides there is almost always a high percentage of truth in the charges
                            made. Usually the storm is for the betterment of mankind. Mr.
                            Summerfield knew this. He knew also the yoke of poverty and the bondage
                            of fear which most if not all his men were under. He had no compunctions
                            about using these weapons, much as a strong man might use a club. He had
                            had a hard life himself. No one had sympathized with him very much.
                            Besides you couldn't sympathize and succeed. Better look the
                            facts in the face, deal only with infinite capacity, roughly weed out
                            the incompetents and proceed along the line of least resistance, in so
                            far as your powerful enemies were concerned. Men might theorize and
                            theorize until the crack  of doom, but
                            this was the way the thing had to be done and this was the way he
                            preferred to do it.
                        Eugene had never heard of any of these facts in connection with the
                            Summerfield Company. The idea had been flung at him so quickly he had no
                            time to think, and besides if he had had time it would have made no
                            difference. A little experience of life had taught him as it teaches
                            everyone else to mistrust rumor. He had applied for the place on hearing
                            and he was hoping to get it. At noon the day following his visit to Mr.
                            Baker Bates, the latter was speaking for him to Mr. Summerfield, but
                            only very casually.
                        "Say," he asked, quite apropos of nothing apparently,
                            for they were discussing the chances of his introducing his product into
                            South America, "do you ever have need of an art director over
                            in your place?"
                        "Occasionally," replied Summerfield guardedly, for his
                            impression was that Mr. Baker Bates knew very little of art directors or
                            anything else in connection with the art side of advertising life. He
                            might have heard of his present need and be trying to palm off some
                            friend of his, an incompetent, of course, on him. "What makes
                            you ask?"
                        "Why, Hudson Dula, the manager of the Triple Lithographic
                            Company, was telling me of a man who is connected with the World who might make a good one for you. I know something of
                            him. He painted some rather remarkable views of New York and Paris here
                            a few years ago. Dula tells me they were very good."
                        "Is he young?" interrupted Summerfield,
                            calculating.
                        "Yes, comparatively. Thirty-one or two, I should
                            say."
                        "And he wants to be an art director, does he. Where is
                            he?"
                        "He's down on the World, and I
                            understand he wants to get out of there. I heard you say last year that
                            you were looking for a man, and I thought this might interest
                            you."
                        "What's he doing down on the World?"
                        "He's been sick, I understand, and is just getting on
                            his feet again."
                        The explanation sounded sincere enough to Summerfield.
                        "What's his name?" he asked.
                        "Witla, Eugene Witla. He had an exhibition at one of the
                            galleries here a few years ago."
                        "I'm afraid of these regular high-brow
                            artists," observed Summerfield suspiciously.
                            "They're usually so set up about their art that
                            there's no living with them. I have to have someone with hard,
                            practical sense in my work. Someone that isn't a  plain damn fool. He has to be a good
                            managera good administrator, mere talent for drawing won't
                            dothough he has to have that, or know it when he sees it. You might send
                            this fellow around sometime if you know him. I wouldn't mind
                            looking at him. I may need a man pretty soon. I'm thinking of
                            making certain changes."
                        "If I see him I will," said Baker indifferently and
                            dropped the matter. Summerfield, however, for some psychological reason
                            was impressed with the name. Where had he heard it? Somewhere
                            apparently. Perhaps he had better find out something about him.
                        "If you send him you'd better give him a letter of
                            introduction," he added thoughtfully, before Bates should have
                            forgotten the matter. "So many people try to get in to see me,
                            and I may forget."
                        Baker knew at once that Summerfield wished to look at Witla. He dictated
                            a letter of introduction that afternoon to his stenographer and mailed
                            it to Eugene.
                        "I find Mr. Summerfield apparently disposed to see
                            you," he wrote. "You had better go and see him if you
                            are interested. Present this letter. Very truly yours."
                        Eugene looked at it with astonishment and a sense of foregoneness so far
                            as what was to follow. Fate was fixing this for him. He was going to get
                            it. How strange life was! Here he was down on the World working for fifty dollars a week, and suddenly an art
                            directorship, a thing he had thought of for years, was coming to him out
                            of nowhere! Then he decided to telephone Mr. Daniel Summerfield, saying
                            that he had a letter from Mr. Baker Bates and asking when he could see
                            him. Later he decided to waste no time, but to present the letter direct
                            without phoning. At three in the afternoon he received permission from
                            Benedict to be away from the office between three and five, and at
                            three-thirty he was in the anteroom of the general offices of the
                            Summerfield Advertising Company, waiting for a much desired permission
                            to enter.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XXXIII
                        WHEN Eugene called, Mr. Daniel C. Summerfield was in no great rush about
                            any particular matter, but he had decided in this case as he had in many
                            others that it was very important that anyone who wanted anything from
                            him should be made to wait. Eugene was made to wait a solid hour before
                            he was informed by an underling that he was very sorry but that other
                            matters had so detained Mr. Summerfield that it was now impossible for
                            him to see him at all this day, but that tomorrow at twelve he would be
                            glad to see him. Eugene was finally admitted on the morrow, however, and
                            then, at the first glance, Mr. Summerfield liked him. "A man of
                            intelligence," he thought, as he leaned back in his chair and
                            stared at him. "A man of force. Young still, wide-eyed, quick,
                            clean looking. Perhaps I have found someone in this man who will make a
                            good art director." He smiled, for Summerfield was always
                            good-natured in his opening relationshipsusually so in all of them, and
                            took most people (his employees and prospective employees particularly)
                            with an air of superior but genial condescension.
                        "Sit down! Sit down!" he exclaimed cheerfully and
                            Eugene did so, looking about at the handsomely decorated walls, the
                            floor which was laid with a wide, soft, light brown rug, and the
                            mahogany desk, flat-topped, glass covered, on which lay handsome
                            ornaments of silver, ivory and bronze. This man looked so keen, so
                            dynamic, like a polished Japanese carving, hard and smooth.
                        "Now tell me all about yourself," began Summerfield.
                            "Where do you come from? Who are you? What have you
                            done?"
                        "Hold! Hold!" said Eugene easily and tolerantly.
                            "Not so fast. My history isn't so much. The short and
                            simple annals of the poor. I'll tell you in two or three
                            sentences."
                        Summerfield was a little taken back at this abruptness which was
                            generated by his own attitude; still he liked it. This was something new
                            to him. His applicant wasn't frightened or apparently even
                            nervous so far as he could judge. "He is droll," he
                            thought, "sufficiently soa man who has seen a number of things
                            evidently. He is easy in manner, too, and kindly."
                        "Well," he said smilingly, for Eugene's
                            slowness appealed to him. His humor was something new in art directors.
                            So far  as he could recall, his
                            predecessors had never had any to speak of.
                        "Well, I'm an artist," said Eugene,
                            "working on the World. Let's hope
                            that don't militate against me very much."
                        "It don't," said Summerfield.
                        "And I want to become an art director because I think
                            I'd make a good one."
                        "Why?" asked Summerfield, his even-teeth showing
                            amiably.
                        "Well, because I like to manage men, or I think I do. And they
                            take to me."
                        "You know that?"
                        "I do. In the next place I know too much about art to want to do
                            the little things that I'm doing. I can do bigger
                            things."
                        "I like that also," applauded Summerfield. He was
                            thinking that Eugene was nice and good looking, a little pale and thin
                            to be wholly forceful, perhaps, he wasn't sure. His hair a
                            little too long. His manner, perhaps, a bit too deliberate. Still he was
                            nice. Why did he wear a soft hat? Why did artists always insist on
                            wearing soft hats, most of them? It was so ridiculous, so
                            unbusinesslike.
                        "How much do you get?" he added, "if
                            it's a fair question."
                        "Less than I'm worth," said Eugene.
                            "Only fifty dollars. But I took it as a sort of health cure. I
                            had a nervous breakdown several years ago-better now, as Mulvaney used
                            to sayand I don't want to stay at that. I'm an art
                            director by temperament, or I think I am. Anyhow, here I
                            am."
                        "You mean," said Summerfield, "you never ran
                            an art department before?"
                        "Never."
                        "Know anything about advertising?"
                        "I used to think so."
                        "How long ago was that?"
                        "When I worked on the Alexandria, Illinois, Daily
                                Appeal." Summerfield smiled. He couldn't help
                            it.
                        "That's almost as important as the Wickham Union, I fancy. It sounds as if it might have the same wide
                            influence."
                        "Oh, much more, much more," returned Eugene quietly.
                            "The Alexandria Appeal had the largest
                            exclusively country circulation of any coutry south of the
                            Sangamon."
                        "I see! I see!" reprled Summerfield good-humoredly.
                            "It's all day with the Wickham Union. Well, how was it you came to change your
                            mind?"
                        "Well, I got a few years older for one thing," said
                            Eugene. "And then I decided that I was cut out to be the
                            greatest living  artist, and then I came
                            to New York, and in the excitement I almost lost the idea."
                        "I see."
                        "But I have it again, thank heaven, tied up back of the house,
                            and here I am."
                        "Well, Witla, to tell you the truth you don't look like
                            a real live, every day, sure-enough art director, but you might make
                            good. You're not quite art-y enough according to the standards
                            that prevail around this office. Still I might be willing to take one
                            gosh-awful chance. I suppose if I do I'll get stung as usual,
                            but I've been stung so often that I ought to be used to it by
                            now. I feel sort of spotted at times from the hornets I've
                            hired in the past. But, he that as it may, what do you think you could
                            do with a real live art directorship if you had it?"
                        Eugene mused. This persiflage entertained him. He thought Summerfield
                            would hire him now that they were together.
                        "Oh, I'd draw my salary first and then I'd see
                            that I had the proper system of approach so that any one who came to see
                            me would think I was the King of England, and then
                            I'd"
                        "I was really busy yesterday," interpolated Summerfield
                            apologetically.
                        "I'm satisfied of that," replied Eugene gaily.
                            "And finally I might condescend, if I were coaxed enough, to do
                            a little work."
                        This speech at once irritated and amused Mr. Summerfield. He liked a man
                            of spirit. You could do something with someone who wasn't
                            afraid, even if he didn't know so much to begin with. And
                            Eugene knew a good deal, he fancied. Besides, his talk was precisely in
                            his own sarcastic, semi-humorous vein. Coming from Eugene it did not
                            sound so hard as it would have coming from himself, but it had his own
                            gay, bantering attitude of mind in it. He believed Eugene could make
                            good. He wanted to try him, instanter, anyhow.
                        "Well, I'll tell you what, Witla," he finally
                            observed. "I don't know whether you can run this thing
                            or notthe probabilities are all against you as I have said, but you seem
                            to have some ideas or what might be made some under my direction, and I
                            think I'll give you a chance. Mind you, I haven't much
                            confidence. My personal likes usually prove very fatal to me. Still,
                            you're here, and I like your looks and I haven't seen
                            anyone else, and so
                        "Thank," said Eugene.
                        "Don't thank me. You have a hard job ahead of you if I
                                 take you. It's no
                            child's play. You'd better come with me first and look
                            over the place," and he led the way out into the great central
                            room where, because it was still noon time, there were few people
                            working, but where one could see just how imposing this business really
                            was.
                        "Seventy-two stenographers, book-keepers, canvassers and writers
                            and trade-aid people at their desks," he observed with an easy
                            wave of his hand, and moved on into the art department, which was in
                            another wing of the building where a north and east light could be
                            secured. "Here's where you come in," he
                            observed, throwing open the door where thirty-two artists'
                            desks and easels were ranged. Eugene was astonished.
                        "You don't employ that many, do you?" he asked
                            interestedly. Most of the men were out to lunch.
                        "From twenty to twenty-five all the time, sometimes
                            more," he said. "Some on the outside. It depends on
                            the condition of business."
                        "And how much do you pay them, as a rule?"
                        "Well, that depends. I think I'll give you seventy-five
                            dollars a week to begin with, if we come to an understanding. If you
                            make good I'll make it a hundred dollars a week inside of three
                            months. It all depends. The others we don't pay so much. The
                            business manager can tell you."
                        Eugene noticed the evasion. His eyes narrowed. Still there was a good
                            chance here. Seventy-five dollars was considerably better than fifty and
                            it might lead to more. He would be his own bossa man of some
                            consequence. He could not help stiffening with pride a little as he
                            looked at the room which Summerfield pointed out to him as his own if he
                            camea room where a large, highly polished oak desk was placed and where
                            some of the Summerfield Advertising Company's art products were
                            hung on the walls. There was a nice rug on the floor and some
                            leather-backed chairs.
                        "Here's where you will be if you come here,"
                            said Summerfield.
                        Eugene gazed round. Certainly life was looking up. How was he to get this
                            place? On what did it depend? His mind was running forward to various
                            improvements in his affairs, a better apartment for Angela, better
                            clothes for her, more entertainment for both of them, freedom from worry
                            over the future; for a little bank account would soon result from a
                            place like this.
                        "Do you do much business a year?" Eugene asked
                            curiously.
                        "Oh, about two million dollars' worth."
                        
                        "And you have to make drawings for every ad?"
                        "Exactly, not one but six or eight sometimes. It depends upon
                            the ability of the art director. If he does his work right I save
                            money."
                        Eugene saw the point.
                        "What became of the other man?" he asked, noting the
                            name of Older Freeman on the door.
                        "Oh, he quit," said Summerville, "or rather he
                            saw what was coming and got out of the way. He was no good. He was too
                            weak. He was turning out work here which was a jokesome things had to be
                            done over eight and nine times."
                        Eugene discovered the wrath and difficulties and opposition which went
                            with this. Summerfield was a hard man, plainly. He might smile and joke
                            now, but anyone who took that chair would hear from him constantly. For
                            a moment Eugene felt as though he could not do it, as though he had
                            better not try it, and then he thought, "Why shouldn't
                            I? It can't hurt me. If worst comes to worst, I have my art to
                            fall back on."
                        "Well, so it goes," he said. "If I
                            don't make good, the door for mine, I suppose?"
                        "No, no, nothing so easy," chuckled Summerfield;
                            "the coal chute."
                        Eugene noticed that he champed his teeth like a nervous horse, and that
                            he seemed fairly to radiate waves of energy. For himself he winced the
                            least bit. This was a grim, fighting atmosphere he was coming into. He
                            would have to fight for his life hereno doubt of that.
                        "Now," said Summerfield, when they were strolling back
                            to his own office. "I'll tell you what you might do. I
                            have two propositions, one from the Sand Perfume Company and another
                            from the American Crystal Sugar Refining Company which may mean big
                            contracts for me if I can present them the right line of ideas for
                            advertising. They want to advertise. The Sand Company wants suggestions
                            for bottles, labels, car ads, newspaper ads, posters, and so on. The
                            American Crystal Company wants to sell its sugar in small packages,
                            powdered, grained, cubed, hexagoned. We want package forms, labels,
                            posters ads, and so on for that. It's a question of how much
                            novelty, simplicity and force we can put in the smallest possible space.
                            Now I depend upon my art director to tell me something about these
                            things. I don't expect him to do everything. I'm here
                            and I'll help him. I have men in the trade aid department out
                            there who are wonders at making suggestions along this line, but the art
                            director is supposed to help." 
                            He's the man who is supposed to have the taste and can execute
                            the proposition in its last form. Now suppose you take these two ideas
                            and see what you can do with them. Bring me some suggestions. If they
                            suit me and I think you have the right note, I'll hire you. If
                            not, well then I won't, and no harm done. Is that all
                            right?"
                        "That's all right," said Eugene.
                        Mr. Summerfield handed him a bundle of papers, catalogues, prospectuses,
                            communications. "You can look these over if you want to. Take
                            them along and then bring them back."
                        Eugene rose.
                        "I'd like to have two or three days for this,"
                            he said. "It's a new proposition to me. I think I can
                            give you some ideasI'm not sure. Anyhow, I'd like to
                            try."
                        "Go ahead! Go ahead!" said Summerfield, "the
                            more the merrier. And I'll see you any time you're
                            ready. I have a man out thereFreeman's assistantwho's
                            running things for me temporarily. Here's luck," and
                            he waved his hand indifferently.
                        Eugene went out. Was there ever such a man, so hard, so cold, so
                            practical! It was a new note to him. He was simply astonished, largely
                            because he was inexperienced. He had not yet gone up against the
                            business world as those who try to do anything in a big way commercially
                            must. This man was getting on his nerves already, making him feel that
                            he had a tremendous problem before him, making him think that the quiet
                            realms of art were merely the backwaters of oblivion. Those who did
                            anything, who were out in the front row of effort, were fighters such as
                            this man was, raw products of the soil, ruthless, superior, indifferent.
                            If only he could be that way, he thought. If he could be strong,
                            defiant, commanding, what a thing it would be. Not to wince, not to
                            quail, but to stand up firm, square to the world and make people obey.
                            Oh, what a splendid vision of empire was here before him.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XXXIV
                        THE designs or suggestions which Eugene offered his prospective employer
                            for the advertising of the products of M. Sand et Cie and the American
                            Crystal Sugar Refining Company, were peculiar. As has been indicated,
                            Eugene had one of those large, effervescent intelligences which when he
                            was in good physical condition fairly bubbled ideas. His imaginings,
                            without any effort on his part, naturally took all forms and shapes. The
                            call of Mr. Summerfield was for street car cards, posters and newspaper
                            ads of various sizes, and what he wanted Eugene specifically to supply
                            was not so much the lettering or rather wording of the ads as it was
                            their artistic form and illustrative point: what one particular
                            suggestion in the form of a drawing or design could be made in each case
                            which would arrest public attention. Eugene went home and took the sugar
                            proposition under consideration first. He did not say anything of what
                            he was really doing to Angela, because he did not want to disappoint
                            her. He pretended that he was making sketches which he might offer to
                            some company for a little money and because it amused him. By the light
                            of his green shaded working lamp at home he sketched designs of hands
                            holding squares of sugar, either in the fingers or by silver and gold
                            sugar tongs, urns piled high with crystalline concoctions, a blue and
                            gold after-dinner cup with one lump of the new form on the side against
                            a section of snow white table cloth, and things of that character. He
                            worked rapidly and with ease until he had some thirty-five suggestions
                            on this one proposition alone, and then he turned his attention to the
                            matter of the perfumery.
                        His first thought was that he did not know all the designs of the
                            company's bottles, but he originated peculiar and delightful
                            shapes of his own, some of which were afterwards adopted by the company.
                            He designed boxes and labels to amuse himself and then made various
                            still-life compositions such as a box, a bottle, a dainty handkerchief
                            and a small white hand all showing in a row. His mind slipped to the
                            manufacture of perfume, the growing of flowers, the gathering of
                            blossoms, the type of girls and men that might possibly be employed, and
                            then he hurried to the great public library the next day to see if he
                            could find a book or magazine article which would tell him something
                            about it. He found this and several articles on sugar  growing and refining which gave him new
                            ideas in that direction. He decided that in each case he would put a
                            beautifully designed bottle of perfume or a handsome package of sugar,
                            say, in the upper right or lower left-hand corner of the design, and
                            then for the rest show some scene in the process of its manufacture. He
                            began to think of men who could carry out his ideas brilliantly if they
                            were not already on his staff, letterers, character artists, men with a
                            keen sense of color combination whom he might possibly hire cheaply. He
                            thought of Jerry Mathews of the old Chicago Globe
                            dayswhere was he now? and Philip Shotmeyer, who would be almost ideal to
                            work under his direction, for he was a splendid letterer, and Henry
                            Hare, still of the World, with whom he had frequently
                            talked on the subject of ads and posters. Then there was young
                            Morgenbau, who was a most excellent character man, looking to him for
                            some opportunity, and eight or ten men whose work he had admired in the
                            magazinesthe best known ones. He decided first to see what could be done
                            with the staff that he had, and then to eliminate and fill in as rapidly
                            as possible until he had a capable working group. He had already caught
                            by contact with Summerfield some of that eager personage's
                            ruthlessness and began to manifest it in his own attitude. He was most
                            impressionable to things advantageous to himself, and this chance to
                            rise to a higher level out of the slough of poverty in which he had so
                            greatly suffered nerved him to the utmost effort. In two days he had a
                            most impressive mass of material to show his prospective employer, and
                            he returned to his presence with considerable confidence. The latter
                            looked over his ideas carefully and then began to warm to his attitude
                            of mind.
                        "I should say!" he said generously,
                            "there's some life to this stuff. I can see you
                            getting the five thousand a year all tight if you keep on.
                            You're a little new, but you've caught the
                            drift." And he sat down to show him where some improvements
                            from a practical point of view could be made.
                        "Now, professor," he said finally when he was satisfied
                            that Eugene was the man he wanted, "you and I might as well
                            call this a deal. It's pretty plain to me that you've
                            got something that I want. Some of these things are fine. I
                            don't know how you're going to make out as a master of
                            men, but you might as well take that desk out there and we'll
                            begin right now. I wish you luck. I really do. You're a live
                            wire, I think."
                        Eugene thrilled with satisfaction. This was the result he wanted. No
                            half-hearted commendation, but enthusiastic praise.  He must have it. He always felt that he could command it.
                            People naturally ran after him. He was getting used to it by nowtaking
                            it as a matter of course. If he hadn't broken down, curse the
                            luck, think where he could have been today. He had lost five years and
                            he was not quite well yet, but thank God he was getting steadily better,
                            and he would try and hold himself in check from now on. The world
                            demanded it.
                        He went out with Summerfield into the art room and was there introduced
                            by him to the various men employed. "Mr. Davis, Mr. Witla; Mr.
                            Hart, Mr. Witla; Mr. Clemens, Mr. Witla," so it went, and the
                            staff was soon aware of who he was. Summerfield then took him into the
                            next room and introduced him to the various heads of departments, the
                            business manager who fixed his and his artists' salaries, the
                            cashier who paid him, the manager of the ad writing department, the
                            manager of the trade aid department, and the head of the stenographic
                            department, a woman. Eugene was a little disgusted with what he
                            considered the crassness of these people. After the quality of the art
                            atmosphere in which he had moved these people seemed to him somewhat raw
                            and voracious, like fish. They had no refinement. Their looks and
                            manners were unduly aggressive. He resented particularly the fact that
                            one canvasser with whom he shook hands wore a bright red tie and had on
                            yellow shoes. The insistence on department store models for suits and
                            floor-walker manners pained him.
                        "To hell with such cattle," he thought, but on the
                            surface he smiled and shook hands and said how glad he would be to work
                            with them. Finally when all the introductions were over he went back to
                            his own department, to take up the work which rushed through here like a
                            living stream, pellmell. His own staff was, of course, much more
                            agreeable to him. These artists who worked for him interested him, for
                            they were as he suspected men very much like himself, in poor health
                            probably, or down on their luck and compelled to do this. He called for
                            his assistant, Mr. Davis, whom Summerfield had introduced to him as
                            such, and asked him to let him see how the work stood.
                        "Have you a schedule of the work in hand?" he asked
                            easily.
                        "Yes, sir," said his new attendant.
                        "Let me see it."
                        The latter brought what he called his order book and showed him just how
                            things worked. Each particular piece of work, or order as it was called,
                            was given a number when it came in, the time of its entry marked on the
                            slip, the name of the artist to whom it was assigned, the time taken to
                            execute it,  and so forth. If one artist
                            only put two hours on it and another took it and put four, this was
                            noted. If the first drawing was a failure and a second begun, the
                            records would show all, the slips and errors of the office as well as
                            its speed and capacity. Eugene perceived that he must see to it that his
                            men did not make many mistakes.
                        After this order book had been carefully inspected by him, he rose and
                            strolled about among the men to see how they were getting on. He wanted
                            to familiarize himself at once with the styles and methods of his men.
                            Some were working on clothing ads, some on designs illustrative of the
                            beef industry, some on a railroad travel series for the street cars, and
                            so forth. Eugene bent over each one graciously, for he wanted to make
                            friends with these people and win their confidence. He knew from
                            experience how sensitive artists werehow they could be bound by feelings
                            of good fellowship. He had a soft, easy, smiling manner which he hoped
                            would smooth his way for him. He leaned over this man's
                            shoulder and that asking what the point was, how long a piece of work of
                            that character ought to take, suggesting where a man appeared to be in
                            doubt what he thought would be advisable. He was not at all certain of
                            himselfthis line of work being so newbut he was hopeful and eager. It
                            was a fine sensation, this being a boss, if one could only triumph at
                            it. He hoped to help these men to help themselves; to make them make
                            good in ways which would bring them and him more money. He wanted more
                            moneythat five thousand, no less.
                        "I think you have the right idea there," he said to one
                            pale, anmic worker who looked as though he might have a lot of
                            talent.
                        The man, whose name was Dillon, responded to the soothing, caressing tone
                            of his voice. He liked Eugene's appearance, though he was not
                            at all disposed to pass favorable judgment as yet. It was already
                            rumored that he had had an exceptional career as an artist. Summerfield
                            had attended to that. He looked up and smiled and said, "Do you
                            think so?"
                        "I certainly do," said Eugene cheerfully. "Try
                            a touch of yellow next to that blue. See if you don't like
                            that."
                        The artist did as requested and squinted at it narrowly. "It
                            helps it a lot, don't it, he observed, as though it were his
                            own.
                        "It certainly does," said Eugene,
                            "that's a good idea," and somehow Dillon felt
                            as though he had thought of it. Inside of twenty minutes the whole staff
                            was agreeing with itself that  he was a
                            nice man to all outward appearances and that he might make good. He
                            appeared to be so sure. They little knew how perturbed he was inwardly,
                            how anxious he was to get all the threads of this in his hand and to see
                            that everything came to an ideal fruition. He dreaded the hour when he
                            might have something to contend with which was not quite right.
                        Days passed at this new work and then weeks, and by degrees he grew
                            moderately sure of himself and comparatively easy in his seat, though he
                            realized that he had not stepped into a bed of roses. He found this a
                            most tempestuous office to work in, for Summerfield was, as he expressed
                            it, "on the job" early and late, and tireless in his
                            insistence and enthusiasm. He came down from his residence in the upper
                            portion of the city at eight-fifty in the morning and remained almost
                            invariably until six-thirty and seven and not infrequently until eight
                            and nine in the evening. He had the inconsiderate habit of keeping such
                            of his staff as happened to be working upon the thing in which he was
                            interested until all hours of the night; sometimes transferring his
                            deliberations to his own home and that without dinner or the proffer of
                            it to those whom he made to work. He would talk advertising with one big
                            merchant or another until it was time to go home, and would then call in
                            the weary members of his staff before they had time to escape and begin
                            a long and important discussion of something he wanted done. At times,
                            when anything went wrong, he would fly into an insane fury, rave and
                            curse and finally, perhaps, discharge the one who was really not to
                            blame. There were no end of labored and irritating conferences in which
                            hard words and sarcastic references would fly about, for he had no
                            respect for the ability or personality of anyone who worked for him.
                            They were all more or less machines in his estimation and rather poorly
                            constructed ones at that. Their ideas were not good enough unless for
                            the time being they happened to be new, or as in Eugene's case
                            displaying pronounced talent.
                        He could not fathom Eugene so readily, for he had never met anyone of his
                            kind. He was looking closely in his case, as he was in that of all the
                            others, to see if he could not find some weakness in his ideas. He had a
                            gleaming, insistent, almost demoniac eye, a habit of chewing incessantly
                            and even violently the stub end of a cigar, the habit of twitching,
                            getting up and walking about, stirring things on his desk, doing
                            anything and everything to give his restless, generative energy a chance
                            to escape.
                        "Now, professor," he would say when Eugene came in and
                                 seated himself quietly and
                            unobtrusively in some corner, "we have a very difficult thing
                            here to solve today. I want to know what you think could be done in such
                            and such a case," describing a particular condition.
                        Eugene would brace himself up and begin to consider, but rumination was
                            not what Summerfield wanted from anyone.
                        "Well, professor! well! well!" he would exclaim.
                        Eugene would stir irritably. This was so embarrassingin a way so
                            degrading to him.
                        "Come to life, professor," Summerfield would go on. He
                            seemed to have concluded long before that the gad was the most effective
                            commercial weapon.
                        Eugene would then make some polite suggestion, wishing instead that he
                            could tell him to go to the devil, but that was not the end of it.
                            Before all the old writers, canvassers, trade aid mensometimes one or
                            two of his own artists who might be working upon the particular task in
                            question, he would exclaim: "Lord! what a poor
                            suggestion!" or "can't you do any better than
                            that, professor?" or "good heavens, I have three or
                            four ideas better than that myself." The best he would ever say
                            in conference was, "Well, there may be something in
                            that," though privately, afterwards, he might possibly express
                            great pleasure. Past achievements counted for nothing; that was so
                            plain. One might bring in gold and silver all day long; the next day
                            there must be more gold and silver and in larger quantities. There was
                            no end to the man's appetite. There was no limit to the speed
                            at which he wished to drive his men. There was no limit to the venomous
                            commercial idea as an idea. Summerfield set an example of nagging and
                            irritating insistence, and he urged all his employees to the same
                            policy. The result was a bear-garden, a den of prize-fighters, liars,
                            cut-throats and thieves in which every man was for himself openly and
                            avowedly and the devil take the hindmost.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XXXV
                        STILL time went by, and although things did not improve very much in his
                            office over the standards which he saw prevailing when he came there, he
                            was obviously getting things much better arranged in his private life.
                            In the first place Angela's attitude was getting much better.
                            The old agony which had possessed her in the days when he was acting so
                            badly had modified as day by day she saw him working and conducting
                            himself with reasonable circumspection. She did not trust him as yet.
                            She was not sure that he had utterly broken with Carlotta Wilson (she
                            had never found out who his paramour was), but all the evidence seemed
                            to attest it. There was a telephone down stairs in a drug store by
                            which, during his days on the World, Angela would call
                            him up at any time, and whenever she had called him up he was always in
                            the office. He seemed to have plenty of time to take her to the theatre
                            if she wished to go, and to have no especial desire to avoid her
                            company. He had once told her frankly that he did not propose to pretend
                            to love her any more, though he did care for her, and this frightened
                            her. In spite of her wrath and suffering she cared for him, and she
                            believed that he still sympathized with her and might come to care for
                            her againthat he ought to.
                        She decided to play the rle of the affectionate wife whether it was true
                            or not, and to hug and kiss him and fuss over him if he would let her,
                            just as though nothing had happened. Eugene did not understand this. He
                            did not see how Angela could still love him. He thought she must hate
                            him, having such just grounds, for having by dint of hard work and
                            absence come out of his vast excitement about Carlotta he was beginning
                            to feel that he had done her a terrific injustice and to wish to make
                            amends. He did not want to love her, he did not feel that he could, but
                            he was perfectly willing to behave himself, to try to earn a good
                            living, to take her to theatre and opera as opportunity permitted, and
                            to build up and renew a social relationship with others which should act
                            as a substitute for love. He was beginning to think that there was no
                            honest or happy solution to any affair of the heart in the world. Most
                            people so far as he could see were unhappily married. It seemed to be
                            the lot of mankind to make mistakes in its matrimonial selections. He
                            was probably no more  unhappy than many
                            others. Let the world wag as it would for a time. He would try to make
                            some money now, and restore himself in the eyes of the world. Later,
                            life might bring him somethingwho could tell?
                        In the next place their financial condition, even before he left the World, was so much better than it had been. By dint of
                            saving and scraping, refusing to increase their expenses more than was
                            absolutely necessary, Angela had succeeded by the time he left the World in laying by over one thousand dollars, and
                            since then it had gone up to three thousand. They had relaxed
                            sufficiently so that now they were wearing reasonably good clothes, were
                            going out and receiving company regularly. It was not possible in their
                            little apartment which they still occupied to entertain more than three
                            or four at the outside, and two was all that Angela ever cared to
                            consider as either pleasurable or comfortable; but they entertained this
                            number frequently. There were some slight recoveries of friendship and
                            of the old lifeHudson Dula, Jerry Mathews, who had moved to Newark;
                            William McConnell, Philip Shotmeyer. MacHugh and Smite were away, one
                            painting in Nova Scotia, the other working in Chicago. As for the old
                            art crowd, socialists and radicals included, Eugene attempted to avoid
                            them as much as possible. He knew nothing of the present whereabouts of
                            Miriam Finch and Norma Whitmore. Of Christina Channing he heard much,
                            for she was singing in Grand Opera, her pictures displayed in the paper
                            and upon the billboards. There were many new friends, principally young
                            newspaper artists like Adolph Morgenbau, who took to Eugene and were in
                            a sense his disciples.
                        Angela's relations showed up from time to time, among them David
                            Blue, now a sub-lieutenant in the army, with all the army
                            officer's pride of place and station. There were women friends
                            of Angela's for whom Eugene cared littleMrs. Desmas, the wife
                            of the furniture manufacturer at Riverwood, from whom they had rented
                            their four rooms there; Mrs. Wertheim, the wife of the multimillionaire,
                            to whom M. Charles had introduced them; Mrs. Link, the wife of the West
                            Point army captain who had come to the old Washington Square studio with
                            Marietta and who was now stationed at Fort Hamilton in Brooklyn; and a
                            Mrs. Juergens, living in a neighboring apartment. As long as they were
                            very poor, Angela was very careful how she revived acquaintances; but
                            when they began to have a little money she decided that she might
                            indulge her predilection and so make life less lonesome for herself. She
                                 had always been anxious to build up
                            solid social connections for Eugene, but as yet she did not see how it
                            was to be done.
                        When Eugene's new connection with the Summerfield company was
                            consummated, Angela was greatly astonished and rather delighted to think
                            that if he had to work in this practical field for long it was to be
                            under such comforting auspicesthat is, as a superior and not as an
                            underling. Long ago she had come to feel that Eugene would never make
                            any money in a commercial way. To see him mounting in this manner was
                            curious, but not wholly reassuring. They must save money; that was her
                            one cry. They had to move soon, that was very plain, but they
                            mustn't spend any more than they had to. She delayed until the
                            attitude of Summerfield, upon an accidental visit to their flat, made it
                            commercially advisable.
                        Summerfield was a great admirer of Eugene's artistic ability. He
                            had never seen any of his pictures, but he was rather keen to, and once
                            when Eugene told him that they were still on display, one or two of them
                            at Pottle Frres, Jacob Bergman's and Henry LaRue's, he
                            decided to visit these places, but put it off. One night when he was
                            riding uptown on the L road with Eugene he decided because he was in a
                            vagrom mood to accompany him home and see his pictures there. Eugene did
                            not want this. He was chagrined to be compelled to take him into their
                            very little apartment, but there was apparently no way of escaping it.
                            He tried to persuade him to visit Pottle Frres instead, where one
                            picture was still on view, but Summerfield would none of that.
                        "I don't like you to see this place," finally
                            he said apologetically, as they were going up the steps of the
                            five-story apartment house. "We are going to get out of here
                            pretty soon. I came here when I worked on the road."
                        Summerfield looked about at the poor neighborhood, the inlet of a canal
                            some two blocks east where a series of black coal pockets were and to
                            the north where there was flat open country and a railroad yard.
                        "Why, that's all right," he said, in his
                            direct, practical way. "It doesn't make any difference
                            to me. It does to you, though, Witla. You know, I believe in spending
                            money, everybody spending money. Nobody gets anywhere by saving
                            anything. Pay out! Pay outthat's the idea. I found that out for
                            myself long ago. You'd better move when you get a chance soon
                            and surround yourself with clever people."
                        Eugene considered this the easy talk of a man who was successful and
                            lucky, but he still thought there was much in it. Summerfield came in
                            and viewed the pictures. He liked them, 
                            and he liked Angela, though he wondered how Eugene ever came to marry
                            her. She was such a quiet little home body. Eugene looked more like a
                            Bohemian or a club man now that he had been worked upon by Summerfield.
                            The soft hat had long since been discarded for a stiff derby, and
                            Eugene's clothes were of the most practical business type he
                            could find. He looked more like a young merchant than an artist.
                            Summerfield invited them over to dinner at his house, refusing to stay
                            to dinner here, and went his way.
                        Before long, because of his advice they moved. They had practically four
                            thousand by now, and because of his salary Angela figured that they
                            could increase their living expenses to say two thousand five hundred or
                            even three thousand dollars. She wanted Eugene to save two thousand each
                            year against the day when he should decide to return to art. They sought
                            about together Saturday afternoons and Sundays and finally found a
                            charming apartment in Central Park West overlooking the park, where they
                            thought they could live and entertain beautifully. It had a large
                            dining-room and living-room which when the table was cleared away formed
                            one great room. There was a handsomely equipped bathroom, a nice kitchen
                            with ample pantry, three bedrooms, one of which Angela turned into a
                            sewing room, and a square hall or entry which answered as a temporary
                            reception room. There were plenty of closets, gas and electricity,
                            elevator service with nicely uniformed elevator men, and a house
                            telephone. It was very different from their last place, where they only
                            had a long dark hall, stairways to climb, gas only, and no phone. The
                            neighborhood, too, was so much better. Here were automobiles and people
                            walking in the park or promenading on a Sunday afternoon and obsequious
                            consideration or polite indifference to your affairs from everyone who
                            had anything to do with you.
                        "Well, the tide is certainly turning," said Eugene, as
                            they entered it the first day.
                        He had the apartment redecorated in white and delft-blue and dark blue,
                            getting a set of library and dining-room furniture in imitation
                            rosewood. He bought a few choice pictures which he had seen at various
                            exhibitions to mix with his own, and set a cut-glass bowl in the ceiling
                            where formerly the commonplace chandelier had been. There were books
                            enough, accumulated during a period of years, to fill the attractive
                            white bookcase with its lead-paned doors. Attractive sets of bedroom
                            furniture in bird's-eye maple and white enamel were secured,
                            and the whole apartment given a very cosy and tasteful appearance.  A piano was purchased outright and dinner
                            and breakfast sets of Haviland china. There were many other dainty
                            accessories, such as rugs, curtains, portires, and so forth, the hanging
                            of which Angela supervised. Here they settled down to a comparatively
                            new and attractive life.
                        Angela had never really forgiven him his indiscretions of the past, his
                            radical brutality in the last instance, but she was not holding them up
                            insistently against him. There were occasional scenes even yet, the
                            echoes of a far-off storm; but as long as they were making money and
                            friends were beginning to come back she did not propose to quarrel.
                            Eugene was very considerate. He was very, very hard-working. Why should
                            she nag him? He would sit by a window overlooking the park at night and
                            toil over his sketches and ideas until midnight. He was up and dressed
                            by seven, down to his office by eight-thirty, out to lunch at one or
                            later, and only back home at eight or nine o'clock at night.
                            Sometimes Angela would be cross with him for this, sometimes rail at Mr.
                            Summerfield for an inhuman brute, but seeing that the apartment was so
                            lovely and that Eugene was getting along so well, how could she quarrel?
                            It was for her benefit as much as for his that he appeared to be
                            working. He did not think about spending money. He did not seem to care.
                            He would work, work, work, until she actually felt sorry for him.
                        "Certainly Mr. Summerfield ought to like you," she said
                            to him one day, half in compliment, half in a rage at a man who would
                            exact so much from him. "You're valuable enough to
                            him. I never saw a man who could work like you can. Don't you
                            ever want to stop?"
                        "Don't bother about me, Angelface," he said.
                            "I have to do it. I don't mind. It's better
                            than walking the streets and wondering how I'm going to get
                            along"and he fell to his ideas again.
                        Angela shook her head. Poor Eugene! If ever a man deserved success for
                            working, he certainly did. And he was really getting nice againgetting
                            conventional. Perhaps it was because he was getting a little older. It
                            might turn out that he would become a splendid man, after all.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XXXVI
                        THERE came a time, however, when all this excitement and wrath and
                            quarreling began to unnerve Eugene and to make him feel that he could
                            not indefinitely stand the strain. After all, his was the artistic
                            temperament, not that of a commercial or financial genius. He was too
                            nervous and restless. For one thing he was first astonished, then
                            amused, then embittered by the continual travesty on justice, truth,
                            beauty, sympathy, which he saw enacted before his eyes. Life stripped of
                            its illusion and its seeming becomes a rather deadly thing to
                            contemplate. Because of the ruthless, insistent, inconsiderate attitude
                            of this employer, all the employees of this place followed his example,
                            and there was neither kindness nor courtesynor even raw justice
                            anywhere. Eugene was compelled to see himself looked upon from the
                            beginning, not so much by his own staff as by the other employees of the
                            company, as a man who could not last long. He was disliked forsooth
                            because Summerfield displayed some liking for him, and because his
                            manners did not coincide exactly with the prevailing standard of the
                            office. Summerfield did not intend to allow his interest in Eugene to
                            infringe in any way upon his commercial exactions, but this was not
                            enough to save or aid Eugene in any way. The others disliked him, some
                            because he was a true artist to begin with, because of his rather
                            distant air, and because in spite of himself he could not take them all
                            as seriously as he should.
                        Most of them seemed little mannikins to himlittle second, third, and
                            fourth editions or copies of Summerfield. They all copied that
                            worthy's insistent air. They all attempted to imitate his
                            briskness. Like children, they were inclined to try to imitate his
                            bitter persiflage and be smart; and they demanded, as he said they
                            should, the last ounce of consideration and duty from their neighbors.
                            Eugene was too much of a philosopher not to take much of this with a
                            grain of salt, but after all his position depended on his activity and
                            his ability to get results, and it was a pity, he thought, that he could
                            expect neither courtesy nor favor from anyone. Departmental chiefs
                            stormed his room daily, demanding this, that, and the other work
                            immediately. Artists complained that they were not getting enough pay,
                            the business manager railed because expenses were not kept low, saying
                            that Eugene might be an improvement in the matter of  the quality of the results obtained and
                            the speed of execution, but that he was lavish in his expenditure.
                            Others cursed openly in his presence at times, and about him to his
                            employer, alleging that the execution of certain ideas was rotten, or
                            that certain work was delayed, or that he was slow or discourteous.
                            There was little in these things, as Summerfield well knew from watching
                            Eugene, but he was too much a lover of quarrels and excitement as being
                            productive of the best results in the long run to wish to interfere.
                            Eugene was soon accused of delaying work generally, of having
                            incompetent men (which was true), of being slow, of being an artistic
                            snob. He stood it all calmly because of his recent experience with
                            poverty, but he was determined to fight ultimately. He was no longer, or
                            at least not going to be, he thought, the ambling, cowardly, dreaming
                            Witla he had been. He was going to stand up, and he did begin to.
                        "Remember, you are the last word here, Witla,"
                            Summerfield had told him on one occasion. "If anything goes
                            wrong here, you're to blame. Don't make any mistakes.
                            Don't let anyone accuse you falsely. Don't run to me.
                            I won't help you."
                        It was such a ruthless attitude that it shocked Eugene into an attitude
                            of defiance. In time he thought he had become a hardened and a changed
                            managgressive, contentious, bitter.
                        "They can all go to hell!" he said one day to
                            Summerfield, after a terrific row about some delayed pictures, in which
                            one man who was animated by personal animosity more than anything else
                            had said hard things about him. "The thing that's been
                            stated here isn't so. My work is up to and beyond the mark.
                            This individual here"pointing to the man in question
                            "simply doesn't like me. The next time he comes into
                            my room nosing about I'll throw him out. He's a damned
                            fakir, and you know it. He lied here today, and you know
                            that."
                        "Good for you, Witla!" exclaimed Summerfield joyously.
                            The idea of a fighting attitude on Eugene's part pleased him.
                            "You're coming to life. You'll get somewhere
                            now. You've got the ideas, but if you let these wolves run over
                            you they'll do it, and they'll eat you. I
                            can't help it. They're all no good. I
                            wouldn't trust a single God-damned man in the
                            place!"
                        So it went. Eugene smiled. Could he ever get used to such a life? Could
                            he ever learn to live with such cheap, inconsiderate, indecent little
                            pups? Summerfield might like them, but he didn't. This might be
                            a marvellous business policy, but he couldn't see it. Somehow
                            it seemed to reflect the mental attitude and temperament of Mr. Daniel
                            C. Summerfield and nothing more. Human nature ought to be better than
                            that.
                        
                        It is curious how fortune sometimes binds up the wounds of the past,
                            covers over the broken places as with clinging vines, gives to the
                            miseries and mental wearinesses of life a look of sweetness and comfort.
                            An illusion of perfect joy is sometimes created where still, underneath,
                            are cracks and scars. Here were Angela and Eugene living together now,
                            beginning to be visited by first one and then the other of those they
                            had known in the past, seemingly as happy as though no storm had ever
                            beset the calm of their present sailing. Eugene, despite all his woes,
                            was interested in this work. He liked to think of himself as the captain
                            of a score of men, having a handsome office desk, being hailed as chief
                            by obsequious subordinates and invited here and there by Summerfield,
                            who still liked him. The work was hard, but it was so much more
                            profitable than anything he had ever had before. Angela was happier,
                            too, he thought, than she had been in a long time, for she did not need
                            to worry about money and his prospects were broadening. Friends were
                            coming back to them in a steady stream, and they were creating new ones.
                            It was possible to go to a seaside resort occasionally, winter or
                            summer, or to entertain three or four friends at dinner. Angela had a
                            maid. The meals were served with considerable distinction under her
                            supervision. She was flattered to hear nice things said about her
                            husband in her presence, for it was whispered abroad in art circles with
                            which they were now slightly in touchagain that half the effectiveness
                            of the Summerfield ads was due to Eugene's talent. It was no
                            shame for him to come out now and say where he was, for he was getting a
                            good salary and was a department chief. He, or rather the house through
                            him, had made several great hits, issuing series of ads which attracted
                            the attention of the public generally to the producs which they
                            advertised. Experts in the advertising world first, and then later the
                            public generally, were beginning to wonder who it was that was primarily
                            responsible for the hits.
                        The Summerfield company had not had them during the previous six years of
                            its history. There were too many of them coming close together not to
                            make a new era in the history of the house. Summerfield, it was
                            understood about the office, was becoming a little jealous of Eugene,
                            for he could not brook the presence of a man with a reputation; and
                            Eugene, with his five thousand dollars in cash in two savings banks,
                            with practically two thousand five hundred dollars' worth of
                            tasteful furniture in his apartment and with a ten-thousand
                            life-insurance policy in favor of Angela, was carrying himself with
                            quite an air. He was not feeling so anxious about his future.
                        
                        Angela noted it. Summerfield also. The latter felt that Eugene was
                            beginning to show his artistic superiority in a way which was not
                            entirely pleasant. He was coming to have a direct, insistent, sometimes
                            dictatorial manner. All the driving Summerfield had done had not
                            succeeded in breaking his spirit. Instead, it had developed him. From a
                            lean, pale, artistic soul, wearing a soft hat, he had straightened up
                            and filled out until now he looked more like a business man than an
                            artist, with a derby hat, clothes of the latest cut, a ring of oriental
                            design on his middle finger, and pins and ties which reflected the
                            prevailing modes.
                        Eugene's attitude had not as yet changed completely, but it was
                            changing. He was not nearly so fearsome as he had been. He was beginning
                            to see that he had talents in more directions than one, and to have the
                            confidence of this fact. Five thousand dollars, in cash, with two or
                            three hundred dollars being added monthly, and interest at four per
                            cent. being paid upon it, gave him a reserve of self-confidence. He
                            began to joke Summerfield himself, for he began to realize that other
                            advertising concerns might be glad to have him. Word had been brought to
                            him once that the Alfred Cookman Company, of which Summerfield was a
                            graduate, was considering making him an offer, and the Twine-Campbell
                            Company, the largest in the field, was also interested in what he was
                            doing. His own artists, mostly faithful because he had sought to pay
                            them well and to help them succeed, ahd spread his fame greatly.
                            According to them, he was the sole cause of all the recent successes
                            which had come to the house, which was not true at all.
                        A number, perhaps the majority, of things recently had started with him;
                            but they had been amplified by Summerfield, worked over by the
                            ad-writing department, revised by the advertisers themselves, and so on
                            and so forth, until notable changes had been effected and success
                            achieved. There was no doubt that Eugene was directly responsible for a
                            share of this. His presence was inspiring, constructive. He keyed up the
                            whole ton of the Summerfield Company merely by being there; but he was
                            not all there was to it by many a long step. He realized this
                            himself.
                        He was not at all offensively egotistic--simply surer, calmer, more
                            genial, less easily ruffled; but even this was too much. Summerfield
                            wanted a frightened man, and seeing that Eugene might be getting strong
                            enough to slip away from him, he began to think how he should either
                            circumvent his possible sudden flight, or discredit his fame, so that if
                            he did leave he would  gain nothing by it.
                            Neither of them was directly manifesting any ill-will or indicating his
                            true feelings, but such was the situation just the same. The things
                            which Summerfield thought he might do were not easy to do under any
                            circumstances. It was particularly hard in Eugene's case. The
                            man was beginning to have an air. People liked him. Advertisers who met
                            him, the big manufacturers, took note of him. They did not understand
                            him as a trade figure, but thought he must have real force. One mana
                            great real estate plunger in New York, who saw him once in
                            Summerfield's officespoke to the latter about him.
                        "That's a most interesting man you have there, that man
                            Witla," he said, when they were out to lunch together.
                            "Where does he come from?"
                        "Oh, the West somewhere!" replied Summerfield
                            evasively. "I don't know. I've had so many
                            art directors I don't pay much attention to them."
                        Winfield (ex-Senator Kenyon C. Winfield, of Brooklyn) perceived a slight
                            undercurrent of opposition and belittling. "He looks like a
                            bright fellow," he said, intending to drop the subject.
                        "He is, he is," returned Summerfield; "but
                            like all artists, he's flighty. They're the most
                            unstable people in the world. You can't depend upon them. Good
                            for one idea todayworth nothing tomorrowI have to handle them like a lot
                            of children. The weather sometimes makes all the difference in the
                            world."
                        Winfield fancied this was true. Artists generally were worth nothing in
                            business. Still, he remembered Eugene pleasantly.
                        As Summerfield talked here, so was it in the office and elsewhere. He
                            began to say in the office and out that Eugene was really not doing as
                            well as he might, and that in all likelihood he would have to drop him.
                            It was sad; but all directors, even the best of them, had their little
                            day of ability and usefulness, and then ran to seed. He did not see why
                            it was that all these directors failed so, but they did. They never
                            really made good in the company. By this method, his own undiminished
                            ability was made to stand out free and clear, and Eugene was not able to
                            appear as important. No one who knew anything about Eugene, however, at
                            this time believed this; but they did believein the officethat he might
                            lose his position. He was too brighttoo much of a leader. They felt that
                            this condition could not continue in a one-man concern; and this made
                            the work harder, for it bred disloyalty in certain quarters. Some of his
                            men were disposed to counsel with the enemy.
                        But as time passed and in spite of the change of attitude which  was coming over Summerfield, Eugene
                            became even stronger in his own self-esteem. He was not getting
                            vainglorious as yetmerely sure. Because of his art work his art
                            connections had revived considerably, and he had heard again from such
                            men as Louis Deesa, M. Charles, Luke Severas, and others who now knew
                            where he was and wondered why he did not come back to painting proper.
                            M. Charles was disgusted. "A great error," he said. He
                            always spoke of him to others as a great loss to art. Strange to relate,
                            one of his pictures was sold the spring following his entry into the
                            Summerfield Company, and another the following winter. Each netted him
                            two hundred and fifty dollars, Pottle Frres being the agents in one
                            case, Jacob Bergman in the other. These sales with their consequent
                            calls for additional canvases to show, cheered him greatly. He felt
                            satisfied now that if anything happened to him he could go back to his
                            art and that he could make a living, anyhow.
                        There came a time when he was sent for by Mr. Alfred Cookman, the
                            advertising agent for whom Summerfield had worked; but nothing came of
                            that, for the latter did not care to pay more than six thousand a year
                            and Summerfield had once told Eugene that he would eventually pay him
                            ten thousand if he stayed with him. He did not think it was fair to
                            leave him just then, and, besides, Cookman's firm had not the
                            force and go and prestige which Summerfield had at this time. His real
                            chance came some six months later, when one of the publishing houses of
                            Philadelphia having an important weekly to market, began looking for an
                            advertising manager.
                        It was the policy of this house to select young men and to select from
                            among all the available candidates just the one particular one to suit
                            the fancy of the owner and who had a record of successful effort behind
                            him. Now Eugene was not any more an advertising manager by experience
                            than he was an art director, but having worked for Summerfield for
                            nearly two years he had come to know a great deal about advertising, and
                            the public thought he knew a great deal more. He knew by now just how
                            Summerfield had his business organized. He knew how he specialized his
                            forces, giving this line to one and that line to another. He had been
                            able to learn by sitting in conferences and consultations what it was
                            that advertisers wanted, how they wanted their goods displayed, what
                            they wanted said. He had learned that novelty, force and beauty were the
                            keynotes and he had to work these elements out under the most galling
                            fire so often that he knew how it ought to be done. He knew also about
                            commissions, rebates, long-time contracts, and so forth.  He had fancied more than once that he
                            might run a little advertising business of his own to great profit if he
                            only could find an honest and capable business manager or partner. Since
                            this person was not forthcoming, he was content to bide his time.
                        But the Kalvin Publishing Company of Philadelphia had heard of him. In
                            his search for a man, Obadiah Kalvin, the founder of the company, had
                            examined many individuals through agents in Chicago, in St. Louis, in
                            Baltimore, Boston, and New York, but he had not yet made up his mind. He
                            was slow in his decisions, and always flattered himself that once he
                            made a selection he was sure of a good result. He had not heard of
                            Eugene until toward the end of his search, but one day in the Union Club
                            in Philadelphia, when he was talking to a big advertising agent with
                            whom he did considerable business, the latter said:
                        "I hear you are looking for an advertising manager for your
                            weekly."
                        "I am," he said.
                        "I heard of a man the other day who might suit you.
                            He's with the Summerfield Company in New York. They've
                            been getting up some very striking ads of late, as you may have
                            noticed."
                        "I think I have seen some of them," replied Kalvin.
                        "I'm not sure of the man's nameWitla, or
                            Gitla, or some such thing as that; but, anyhow, he's over
                            there, and they say he's pretty good. Just what he is in the
                            house I don't know. You might look him up."
                        "Thanks; I will," replied Kalvin. He was really quite
                            grateful, for he was not quite satisfied with any of those he had seen
                                o heard of. He was an old man, extremely
                            sensitive to ability, wanting to combine force with refinement if he
                            could; he was a good Christian, and was running Christian, or rather
                            their happy correlatives, decidedly conservative publications. When he
                            went back to his office he consulted with his business partner, a man
                            named Fredericks, who held but a minor share in the company, and asked
                            him if he couldn't find out something about this promising
                            individual. Fredericks did so. He called up Cookman, in New York, who
                            was delighted to injure his old employee, Summerfield, to the extent of
                            taking away his best man if he could. He told Fredericks that he thought
                            Eugene was very capable, probably the most capable young man in the
                            field, and in all likelihood the man he was looking fora hustler.
                        "I thought once of hiring him myself here not long
                            ago," he told Fredericks. "He has ideas, you can see
                            that."
                        
                        The next thing was a private letter from Mr. Fredericks to Mr. Witla
                            asking if by any chance he could come over to Philadelphia the following
                            Saturday afternoon, indicating that there was a business proposition of
                            considerable importance which he wished to lay before him.
                        From the paper on which it was written Eugene could see that there was
                            something important in the wind, and laid the matter before Angela. The
                            latter's eyes glistened.
                        "I'd certainly go if I were you," she advised.
                            "He might want to make you business manager or art director or
                            something. You can be sure they don't intend to offer you less
                            than you're getting now, and Mr. Summerfield certainly has not
                            treated you very well, anyhow. You've worked like a slave for
                            him, and he's never kept his agreement to raise your salary as
                            much as he said he would. It may mean our having to leave New York; but
                            that doesn't make any difference for a while. You
                            don't intend to stay in this field, anyhow. You only want to
                            stay long enough to get a good sound income of your own."
                        Angela's longing for Eugene's art career was
                            nevertheless being slightly stilled these days by the presence and
                            dangled lure of money. It was a great thing to be able to go downtown
                            and buy dresses and hats to suit the seasons. It was a fine thing to be
                            taken by Eugene Saturday afternoons and Sundays in season to Atlantic
                            City, to Spring Lake, and Shelter Island.
                        "I think I will go over," he said; and he wrote Mr.
                            Fredericks a favorable reply.
                        The latter met him at the central station in Philadelphia with his auto
                            and took him out to his country place in the Haverford district. On the
                            way he talked of everything but businessthe state of the weather, the
                            condition of the territory through which they were traveling, the
                            day's news, the nature and interest of Eugene's
                            present work. When they were in the Fredericks house, where they arrived
                            in time for dinner, and while they were getting ready for it, Mr.
                            Obadiah Kalvin dropped inostensibly to see his partner, but really to
                            look at Eugene without committing himself. He was introduced to Eugene,
                            and shook hands with him cordially. During the meal he talked with
                            Eugene a little, though not on business, and Eugene wondered why he had
                            been called. He suspected, knowing as he did that Kalvin was the
                            president of the company, that the latter was there to look at him.
                            After dinner Mr. Kalvin left, and Eugene noted that Mr. Fredericks was
                            then quite ready to talk with him.
                        "The thing that I wanted you to come over and see me about  is in regard to our weekly and the
                            advertising department. We have a great paper over here, as you
                            know," he said. "We are intending to do much more with
                            it in the future than we have in the past even. Mr. Kalvin is anxious to
                            get just the man to take charge of the advertising department. We have
                            been looking for someone for quite a little while. Several people have
                            suggested your name, and I'm rather inclined to think that Mr.
                            Kalvin would be pleased to see you take it. His visit here today was
                            purely accidental, but it was fortunate. He had a chance to look at you,
                            so that if I should propose your name he will know just who you are. I
                            think you would find this company a fine background for your efforts. We
                            have no penny-wise-and-pound-foolish policy over here. We know that any
                            successful thing is made by the men behind it, and we are willing to pay
                            good money for good men. I don't know what you are getting
                            where you are, and I don't care very much. If you are
                            interested I should like to talk to Mr. Kalvin about you, and if he is
                            interested I should like to bring you two together for a final
                            conference. The salary will be made right, you needn't worry
                            about that. Mr. Kalvin isn't a small man. If he likes a manand
                            I think he might like youhe'll offer you what he thinks
                            you're worth and you can take it or leave it. I never heard
                            anyone complain about the salary he offered."
                        Eugene listened with extreme self-gratulation. He was thrilling from head
                            to toe. This was the message he had been expecting to hear for so long.
                            He was getting five thousand now, he had been offered six thousand. Mr.
                            Kalvin could do no less than offer him seven or eightpossibly ten. He
                            could easily ask seven thousand five hundred.
                        "I must say," he said innocently, "the
                            proposition sounds attractive to me. It's a different kind of
                            thingsomewhatfrom what I have been doing, but I think I could handle it
                            successfully. Of course, the salary will determine the whole thing
                            I'm not at all badly placed where I am. I've just got
                            comfortably settled in New York, and I'm not anxious to move.
                            But I would not be opposed to coming. I have no contract with Mr.
                            Summerfield. He has never been willing to give me one."
                        "Well, we are not keen upon contracts ourselves," said
                            Mr. Fredericks. "It's not a very strong reed to lean
                            upon, anyhow, as you know. Still a contract might be arranged if you
                            wish it. Supposing we talk a little further to Mr. Kalvin today. He
                            doesn't live so far from here," and with
                            Eugene's consent he went to the phone.
                        The latter had supposed that the conversation with Mr. Kalvin  was something which would necessarily
                            have to take place at some future date; but from the conversation then
                            and there held over the phone it appeared not. Mr. Fredericks explained
                            elaborately over the phoneas though it was necessarythat he had been
                            about the work of finding an advertising manager for some time, as Mr.
                            Kalvin knew, and that he had some difficulty in finding the right
                            man.
                        "I have been talking to Mr. Witla, whom you met here today, and
                            he is interested in what I have been telling him about the Weekly. He strikes me from my talk with him here as being
                            possibly the man you are looking for. I thought that you might like to
                            talk with him further."
                        Mr. Kalvin evidently signified his assent, for the machine was called out
                            and they traveled to his house, perhaps a mile away. On the way
                            Eugene's mind was busy with the possibilities of the future. It
                            was all so nebulous, this talk of a connection with the famous Kalvin
                            Publishing Company; but at the same time it was so significant, so
                            potential. Could it be possible that he was going to leave Summerfield,
                            after all, and under such advantageous circumstances? It seemed like a
                            dream.
                        Mr. Kalvin met them in the library of his house, which stood in a
                            spacious lawn and which save for the lights in the library was quite
                            dark and apparently lonely. And here their conversation was continued.
                            He was a quiet mansmall, gray-haired, searching in his gaze. He had, as
                            Eugene noted, little hands and feet, and appeared as still and composed
                            as a pool in dull weather. He said slowly and quietly that he was glad
                            that Eugene and Mr. Fredericks had had a talk. He had heard a little
                            something of Eugene in the past; not much. He wanted to know what Eugene
                            thought of current advertising policies, what he thought of certain new
                            developments in advertising method, and so on, at some length.
                        "So you think you might like to come with us," he
                            observed drily toward the end, as though Eugene had proposed coming.
                        "I don't think I would object to coming under certain
                            conditions," he replied.
                        "And what are those conditions?"
                        "Well, I would rather hear what you have to suggest, Mr. Kalvin.
                            I really am not sure that I want to leave where I am. I'm doing
                            pretty well as it is."
                        "Well, you seem a rather likely young man to me," said
                            Mr. Kalvin. "You have certain qualities which I think I need.
                            I'll say eight thousand for this year, and if everything is
                            satisfactory  one year from this time
                            I'll make it ten. After that we'll let the future take
                            care of itself."
                        "Eight thousand! Ten next year!" thought Eugene. The
                            title of advertising manager of a great publication! This was certainly
                            a step forward!
                        "Well, that isn't so bad," he said, after a
                            moment's apparent reflection. "I'd be willing
                            to take that, I think."
                        "I thought you would," said Mr. Kalvin, with a dry
                            smile. "Well, you and Mr. Fredericks can arrange the rest of
                            the details. Let me wish you good luck," and he extended his
                            hand cordially.
                        Eugene took it.
                        It did not seem as he rode back in the machine with Mr. Fredericks to the
                            latter's housefor he was invited to stay for the nightthat it
                            could really be true. Eight thousand a year! Was he eventually going to
                            become a great business man instead of an artist? He could scarcely
                            flatter himself that this was true, but the drift was strange. Eight
                            thousand this year! Ten the next if he made good; twelve, fifteen,
                            eighteen He had heard of such salaries in the advertising field alone,
                            and how much more would his investments bring him. He foresaw an
                            apartment on Riverside Drive in New York, a house in the country
                            perhaps, for he fancied he would not always want to live in the city. An
                            automobile of his own, perhaps; a grand piano for Angela; Sheraton or
                            Chippendale furniture; friends, famewhat artist's career could
                            compare to this? Did any artist he knew enjoy what he was enjoying now,
                            even? Why should he worry about being an artist? Did they ever get
                            anywhere? Would the approval of posterity let him ride in an automobile
                            now? He smiled as he recalled Dula's talk about class
                            superioritythe distinction of being an artist, even though poor. Poverty
                            be hanged! Posterity could go to the devil! He wanted to live nownot in
                            the approval of posterity.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XXXVII
                        THE best positions are not always free from the most disturbing
                            difficulties, for great responsibility goes with great opportunity; but
                            Eugene went gaily to this new task, for he knew that it could not
                            possibly be much more difficult than the one he was leaving. Truly,
                            Summerfield had been a terrible man to work for. He had done his best by
                            petty nagging, insisting on endless variations, the most frank and
                            brutal criticism, to break down Eugene's imperturbable good
                            nature and make him feel that he could not reasonably hope to handle the
                            situation without Summerfield's co-operation and assistance.
                            But he had only been able, by so doing, to bring out Eugene's
                            better resources. His self-reliance, coolness under fire, ability to
                            work long and ardently even when his heart was scarcely in it, were all
                            strengthened and developed.
                        "Well, luck to you, Witla," he said, when Eugene
                            informed him one morning that he was going to leave and wished to give
                            him notice.
                        "You needn't take me into consideration. I
                            don't want you to stay if you're going to go. The
                            quicker the better. These long drawn-out agonies over leaving
                            don't interest me. There's nothing in that. Clinch the
                            job today if you want it. I'll find someone."
                        Eugene resented his indifference, but he only smiled a cordial smile in
                            reply. "I'll stay a little while if you want me toone
                            or two weeksI don't want to tie up your work in any
                            way."
                        "Oh, no, no! You won't tie up my work. On your way, and
                            good luck!"
                        "The little devil!" thought Eugene; but he shook hands
                            and said he was sorry. Summerfield grinned imperturbably. He wound up
                            his affairs quickly and got out. "Thank God," he said
                            the day he left, "I'm out of that hell hole!"
                            But he came to realize afterward that Summerfield had rendered him a
                            great service. He had forced him to do his best and utmost, which no one
                            had ever done before. It had told in his character, his spiritual
                            make-up, his very appearance. He was no longer timid and nervous, but
                            rather bold and determined-looking. He had lost that fear of very little
                            things, for he had been sailing through stormy seas. Little storms did
                            notcould never againreally frighten him. He had learned to fight. That
                            was the one great thing Summerfield had done for him.
                        
                        In the offices of the Kalvin Company it was radically different. Here was
                            comparative peace and quiet. Kalvin had not fought his way up by
                            clubbing little people through little difficulties, but had devoted
                            himself to thinking out a few big things, and letting them because of
                            their very bigness and newness make their own way and his. He believed
                            in big men, honest menthe biggest and most honest he could find. He saw
                            something in Eugene, a tendency toward perfection perhaps which
                            attracted him.
                        The formalities of this new arrangement were soon concluded, and Eugene
                            came into his new and beautiful offices, heralded by the word recently
                            passed about that he was a most charming man. He was greeted by the
                            editor, Townsend Miller, in the most cordial manner. He was met by his
                            assembled staff in the most friendly spirit. It quite took
                            Eugene's breath away to realize that he was the responsible
                            head of some fifteen capable advertising men here in Philadelphia alone,
                            to say nothing of eight more in a branch office in Chicago and traveling
                            canvassers in the different parts of the countrythe far West, the South,
                            the Southwest, the Canadian Northwest. His material surroundings were
                            much more imposing than they had been with the Summerfield Company. The
                            idea of all these men was to follow up business, to lay interesting
                            propositions before successful merchants and manufacturers who had not
                            yet tried the columns of the North American Weekly, to
                            make contracts which should be mutually advantageous to the advertiser
                            and the Weekly, and to gain and retain good-will
                            according to the results rendered. It was no very difficult task in
                            connection with the North American Weekly to do this,
                            because owing to a novel and appealing editorial policy it was already
                            in possession of a circulation of five hundred thousand a week, and was
                            rapidly gaining more. It was not difficult, as Eugene soon found, to
                            show advertisers in most cases that this was a proposition in which
                            worth-while results could be obtained. What with Eugene's
                            fertility in suggesting new methods of advertising, his suaveness of
                            approach and geniality in laying before the most recalcitrant his very
                            desirable schemes, his ability to get ideas and suggestions out of his
                            men in conference, he was really in no danger of not being able to hold
                            his own, and indeed was destined to make a rather remarkable
                            showing.
                        Eugene and Angela settled into what might have been deemed a fixed
                            attitude of comfort and refinement. Without much inconvenience to
                            himself and with little friction among those about, he had succeeded in
                            reorganizing his staff along lines  which
                            were eminently satisfactory to himself. Some men who were formerly with
                            the Summerfield Company were now with him. He had brought them because
                            he found he could inculcate in them the spirit of sympathetic
                            relationship and good understanding such as Kalvin desired. He was not
                            making the progress which Summerfield was making with really less means
                            at his command, but then, on the other hand, this was a rich company
                            which did not ask or expect any such struggle as that which Summerfield
                            had been and was still compelled to make for himself. The business
                            ethics of this company were high. It believed in clean methods, good
                            salaries, honest service. Kalvin liked him, and he had one memorable
                            conversation with Eugene some time after he came therealmost a yearwhich
                            stuck in his memory and did him much good. Kalvin saw clearly wherein
                            both his strength and his weakness lay, and once said to Fredericks, his
                            business manager: "The one thing I like about that man is his
                            readiness with ideas. He always has one, and he's the most
                            willing man to try I ever knew. He has imagination. He needs to be
                            steadied in the direction of sober thought, so that he doesn't
                            promise more than he can fulfil. Outside this I see nothing the matter
                            with him."
                        Fredericks agreed. He liked Eugene also. He did as much as he could to
                            make things smooth, but of course Eugene's task was personal
                            and to be worked out by him solely. Kalvin said to him when it became
                            necessary to raise his salary:
                        "I've watched your work for a year now and I'm
                            going to keep my word and raise your salary. You're a good man.
                            You have many excellent qualities which I want and need in the man who
                            sits at that desk; but you have also some failings. I don't
                            want you to get offended. A man in my position is always like a father
                            who sits at the head of a family, and my lieutenants are like my sons. I
                            have to take an interest in them because they take an interest in me.
                            Now you've done your work wellvery well, but you are subject to
                            one fault which may sometime lead into trouble. You're a little
                            too enthusiastic. I don't think you stop to think enough. You
                            have a lot of ideas. They swarm in your head like bees, and sometimes
                            you let them all out at once and they buzz around you and confuse you
                            and everyone else connected with you. You would really be a better man
                            if you had, not less ideasI wouldn't say thatbut better control
                            of them. You want to do too many things at once. Go slow. Take your
                            time. You have lots of time. You're young yet. Think! If
                            you're in doubt, come down and consult with me. I'm
                            older in this business than you are, and I'll help you all I
                            can."
                        
                        Eugene smiled and said: "I think that's
                            true."
                        "It is true," said Kalvin; "and now I want to
                            speak of another thing which is a little more of a personal matter, and
                            I don't want you to take offence, for I'm saying it
                            for your benefit. If I'm any judge of men, and I flatter myself
                            sometimes that I am, you're a man whose greatest weakness
                            liesand, mind you, I have no actual evidence to go upon, not one
                            scrapyour greatest weakness lies perhaps not so much in the direction of
                            women as in a love of luxury generally, of which women might become, and
                            usually are, a very conspicuous part"
                        Eugene flushed the least bit nervously and resentfully, for he thought he
                            had conducted himself in the most circumspect manner herein fact,
                            everywhere since the days he had begun to put the Riverwood incident
                            behind him.
                        "Now I suppose you wonder why I say that. Well, I raised two
                            boys, both dead now, and one was just a little like you. You have so
                            much imagination that it runs not only to ideas in business, but ideas
                            in dress and comfort and friends and entertainment. Be careful of the
                            kind of people you get in with. Stick to the conservative element. It
                            may be hard for you, but it's best for you, materially
                            speaking. You're the kind of man, if my observations and
                            intuitions are correct, who is apt to be carried away by his ideals of
                            anythingbeauty, women, show. Now I have no ascetic objections to women,
                            but to you they are dangerous, as yet. At bottom, I don't think
                            you have the making of a real cold business man in you, but
                            you're a splendid lieutenant. I'll tell you frankly I
                            don't think a better man than you has ever sat, or could sit,
                            in that chair. You are very exceptional, but your very ability makes you
                            an uncertain quantity. You're just on the threshold of your
                            career. This additional two thousand dollars is going to open up new
                            opportunities to you. Keep cool. Keep out of the hands of clever people.
                            Don't let subtle women come near. You're married, and
                            for your sake I hope you love your wife. If you don't, pretend
                            to, and stay within the bounds of convention. Don't let any
                            scandal ever attach to you. If you do it will be absolutely fatal so far
                            as I am concerned. I have had to part with a number of excellent men in
                            my time because a little money turned their heads and they went wild
                            over some one woman, or many women. Don't you be that way. I
                            like you. I'd like to see you get along. Be cold if you can. Be
                            careful. Think. That's the best advice I can give you, and I
                            wish you luck."
                        He waved him a dismissal, and Eugene rose. He wondered how this man had
                            seen so clearly into his character. It was the  truth, and he knew it was. His inmost thoughts and
                            feelings were evidently written where this man could see them. Fittingly
                            was he president of a great company. He could read men.
                        He went back into his office and decided to take this lesson to heart. He
                            must keep cool and sane always. "I guess I've had
                            enough experience to know that, though, by now," he said and
                            dismissed the idea from his mind.
                        For this year and the year following, when his salary was raised to
                            twelve thousand, Eugene flourished prodigiously. He and Miller became
                            better friends than ever. Miller had advertising ideas which were of
                            value to Eugene. Eugene had art and editorial ideas which were of value
                            to Miller. They were together a great deal at social functions, and were
                            sometimes hailed by their companions as the "Kalvin
                            Kids," and the "Limelight Twins." Eugene
                            learned to play golf with Miller, though he was a slow student and never
                            good, and also tennis. He and Mrs. Miller, Angela and Townsend,
                            frequently made a set on their own court or over at Miller's.
                            They automobiled and rode a great deal. Eugene met some charming women,
                            particularly young ones, at dances, of which he had become very fond,
                            and at dinners and receptions. They and the Millers were invited to a
                            great many affairs, but by degrees it became apparent to him, as it did
                            to Miller and Mrs. Miller, that his presence was much more desired by a
                            certain type of smart woman than was that of his wife.
                        "Oh, he is so clever!" was an observation which might
                            have been heard in various quarters. Frequently the compliment stopped
                            there and nothing was said of Angela, or later on it would come up that
                            she was not quite so nice. Not that she was not charming and worthy and
                            all that, "But you know, my dear, she isn't quite so
                            available. You can't use her as you can some
                            women."
                        It was at this time that Angela first conceived the notion seriously that
                            a child might have a sobering effect on Eugene. She had, in spite of the
                            fact that for some time now they had been well able to support one or
                            more, and in spite also of the fact that Eugene's various
                            emotional lapses indicated that he needed a sobering weight of some
                            kind, steadily objected in her mind to the idea of subjecting herself to
                            this ordeal. To tell the truth, aside from the care and worry which
                            always, owing to her early experience with her sister's
                            children, had been associated in her mind with the presence of them, she
                            was decidedly afraid of the result. She had heard her mother say that
                            most girls in their infancy showed very clearly whether they were to  be good healthy mothers or notwhether
                            they were to have childrenand her recollection was that her mother had
                            once said that she would not have any children. She half believed it to
                            be impossible in her case, though she had never told this to Eugene, and
                            she had guarded herself jealously against the chance of having any.
                        Now, however, after watching Eugene all these years, seeing the drift of
                            his present mood, feeling the influence of prosperity on him, she wished
                            sincerely that she might have one, without great danger or discomfort to
                            herself, in order that she might influence and control him. He might
                            learn to love it. The sense of responsibility involved would have its
                            effect. People would look to him to conduct himself soberly under these
                            circumstances, and he probably wouldhe was so subject to public opinion
                            now. She thought of this a long time, wondering, for fear and annoyance
                            were quite strong influences with her, and she did nothing immediately.
                            She listened to various women who talked with her from time to time
                            about the child question, and decided that perhaps it was very wrong not
                            to have childrenat least one or two; that it was very likely possible
                            that she could have one, if she wanted to. A Mrs. Sanifore who called on
                            her quite frequently in Philadelphiashe met her at the
                            Millers'told her that she was sure she could have one even if
                            she was past the usual age for first babies; for she had known so many
                            women who had.
                        "If I were you, Mrs. Witla, I would see a doctor," she
                            suggested one day. "He can tell you. I'm sure you can
                            if you want to. They have so many ways of dieting and exercising you
                            which make all the difference in the world. I'd like to have
                            you come some day and see my doctor, if you will."
                        Angela decided that she would, for curiosity's sake, and in case
                            she wished to act in the matter some time; and was informed by the
                            wiseacre who examined her that in his opinion there was no doubt that
                            she could. She would have to subject herself to a strict regimen. Her
                            muscles would have to be softened by some form of manipulation.
                            Otherwise, she was apparently in a healthy, normal condition and would
                            suffer no intolerable hardship. This pleased and soothed Angela greatly.
                            It gave her a club wherewith to strike her lorda chain where-with to
                            bind him. She did not want to act at once. It was too serious a matter.
                            She wanted time to think. But it was pleasant to know that she could do
                            this. Unless Eugene sobered down now
                        During the time in which he had been working for the Summerfield  Company and since then for the Kalvin
                            Company here in Philadelphia, Eugene, in spite of the large salary he
                            was receivingmore each yearreally had not saved so much money. Angela
                            had seen to it that some of his earnings were invested in Pennsylvania
                            Railroad stock, which seemed to her safe enough, and in a plot of ground
                            two hundred by two hundred feet at Upper Montclair, New Jersey, near New
                            York, where she and Eugene might some day want to live. His business
                            engagements had necessitated considerable personal expenditures, his
                            opportunity to enter the Baltusrol Golf Club, the Yere Tennis Club, the
                            Philadelphia Country Club, and similar organizations had taken annual
                            sums not previously contemplated, and the need of having a modest
                            automobile, not a touring car, was obvious. His short experience with
                            that served as a lesson, however, for it was found to be a terrific
                            expense, entirely disproportionate to his income. After paying for
                            endless repairs, salarying a chauffeur wearisomely, and meeting with an
                            accident which permanently damaged the looks of his machine, he decided
                            to give it up. They could rent autos for all the uses they would have.
                            And so that luxury ended there.
                        It was curious, too, how during this time their Western home relations
                            fell rather shadowily into the background. Eugene had not been home now
                            for nearly two years, and Angela had seen only David of all her family
                            since she had been in Philadelphia. In the fall of their third year
                            there Angela's mother died and she returned to Blackwood for a
                            short time. The following spring Eugene's father died. Myrtle
                            moved to New York; her husband, Frank Bangs, was connected with a
                            western furniture company which was maintaining important show rooms in
                            New York. Myrtle had broken down nervously and taken up Christian
                            Science, Eugene heard. Henry Burgess, Sylvia's husband, had
                            become president of the bank with which he had been so long connected,
                            and had sold his father's paper, the Alexandria Appeal, when the latter suddenly died. Marietta was promising
                            to come to Philadelphia next year, in order, as she said, that Eugene
                            might get her a rich husband; but Angela informed him privately that
                            Marietta was now irrevocably engaged and would, the next year, marry a
                            wealthy Wisconsin lumber man. Everyone was delighted to hear that Eugene
                            was doing so well, though all regretted the lapse of his career as an
                            artist. His fame as an advertising man was growing, and he was thought
                            to have considerable weight in the editorial direction of the North American Weekly. So he flourished.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XXXVIII
                        IT was in the fall of the third year that the most flattering offer of
                            any was made him, and that without any seeking on his part, for he was
                            convinced that he had found a fairly permanent berth and was happy among
                            his associates. Publishing and other trade conditions were at this time
                            in a peculiar condition, in which lieutenants of any importance in any
                            field might well be called to positions of apparently extraordinary
                            prominence and trust. Most of the great organizations of
                            Eugene's day were already reaching a point where they were no
                            longer controlled by the individuals who had founded and constructed
                            them, but had passed into the hands of sons or holding companies, or
                            groups of stockholders, few of whom knew much, if anything, of the
                            businesses which they were called to engineer and protect.
                        Hiram C. Colfax was not a publisher at all at heart. He had come into
                            control of the Swinton-Scudder-Davis Company by one of those curious
                            manipulations of finance which sometimes give the care of sheep into the
                            hands of anything but competent or interested shepherds. Colfax was
                            sufficiently alert to handle anything in such a way that it would
                            eventually make money for him, even if that result were finally attained
                            by parting with it. In other words, he was a financier. His father had
                            been a New England soap manufacturer, and having accumulated more or
                            less radical ideas along with his wealth, had decided to propagandize in
                            favor of various causes, the Single Tax theory of Henry George for one,
                            Socialism for another, the promotion of reform ideas in politics
                            generally. He had tried in various ways to get his ideas before the
                            public, but had not succeeded very well. He was not a good speaker, not
                            a good writer, simply a good money maker and fairly capable thinker, and
                            this irritated him. He thought once of buying or starting a newspaper in
                            Boston, but investigation soon showed him that this was a rather
                            hazardous undertaking. He next began subsidizing small weeklies which
                            should advocate his reforms, but this resulted in little. His interest
                            in pamphleteering did bring his name to the attention of Martin W. Davis
                            of the Swinton-Scudder-Davis Company, whose imprint on books, magazines
                            and weeklies was as common throughout the length and breadth of the land
                            as that of Oxford is upon the English bible.
                        The Swinton-Scudder-Davis Company was in sad financial  straits. Intellectually, for various
                            reasons, it had run to seed. John Jacob Swinton and Owen V. Scudder, the
                            men with book, magazine and true literary instincts, were long since
                            dead. Mr. Davis had tried for the various heirs and assigns involved to
                            run it intelligently and honestly, but intelligence and honesty were of
                            little value in this instance without great critical judgment. This he
                            had not. The house had become filled with editors, readers, critics,
                            foremen of manufacturing and printing departments, business managers,
                            art directors, traveling salesmen and so on without end, each of whom
                            might be reasonably efficient if left alone, but none of whom worked
                            well together and all of whom used up a great deal of money.
                        The principal literary publication, a magazine of great prestige, was in
                            the hands of an old man who had been editor for nearly forty years. A
                            weekly was being run by a boy, comparatively, a youth of twenty-nine. A
                            second magazine, devoted to adventure fiction, was in the hands of
                            another young man of twenty-six, a national critical monthly was in the
                            hands of salaried critics of great repute and uncompromising attitude.
                            The book department was divided into the hands of a juvenile editor, a
                            fiction editor, a scientific and educational editor and so on. It was
                            Mr. Davis' task to see that competent overseers were in charge
                            of all departments so that they might flourish and work harmoniously
                            under him, but he was neither sufficiently wise or forceful to fill the
                            rle. He was old and was veered about first by one theory and then by
                            another, and within the house were rings and cliques. One of the most
                            influential of thesethe most influential, in factwas one which was
                            captained and led by Florence J. White, an Irish-American, who as
                            business manager (and really more than that, general manager under
                            Davis) was in charge of the manufacturing and printing departments, and
                            who because of his immense budgets for paper, ink, printing, mailing and
                            distribution generally, was in practical control of the business.
                        He it was who with Davis' approval said how much was to be paid
                            for paper, ink, composition, press work, and salaries generally. He it
                            was who through his henchman, the head of the printing department,
                            arranged the working schedules by which the magazines and books were to
                            reach the presses, with the practical power to say whether they were to
                            be on time or not. He it was who through another superintendent
                            supervised the mailing and the stock room, and by reason of his great
                            executive ability was coming to have a threatening control over the
                            advertising and circulation departments.
                        
                        The one trouble with White, and this was something which would affect any
                            man who should come in through Davis' auspices, was that he
                            knew nothing of art, literature, or science, and cared less, his only
                            interest being in manufacture. He had risen so rapidly on the executive
                            side that his power had outrun his financial means. Davis, the present
                            head above him, had no means beyond his own depreciated share. Because
                            of poor editorial judgment, the books and magazines were tottering
                            through a serious loss of prestige to eventual failure. Something had to
                            be done, for at that time the expenditure for three years past had been
                            much greater than the receipts.
                        So Marshall P. Colfax, the father of Hiram Colfax, had been appealed to,
                            because of his interest in reform ideas which might be to a certain
                            extent looked upon as related to literature, and because he was reported
                            to be a man of great wealth. Rumor reported his fortune as being
                            anywhere between six and eight millions. The proposition which Davis had
                            to put before him was this: that he buy from the various heirs and
                            assigns the whole of the stock outside his (Davis') own, which
                            amounted to somewhere about sixty-five per cent, and then come in as
                            managing director and reorganize the company to suit himself. Davis was
                            old. He did not want to trouble himself about the future of this company
                            or risk his own independent property. He realized as well as anyone that
                            what the company needed was new blood. A receivership at this juncture
                            would injure the value of the house imprint very much indeed. White had
                            no money, and besides he was so new and different that Davis scarcely
                            understood what his ambitions or his true importance might be. There was
                            no real intellectual sympathy between them. In the main, he did not like
                            White's temperament, and so in considering what might be done
                            for the company he passed him by.
                        Various consultations were held. Colfax was greatly flattered to think
                            that this proposition should be brought to his attention at all. He had
                            three sons, only one of whom was interested in the soap business. Edward
                            and Hiram, the two youngest, wanted nothing to do with it. He thought
                            this might be an outlet for the energies of one or both of them,
                            preferably Hiram, who was more of an intellectual and scientific turn
                            than the others, though his chief interests were financial; and besides
                            these books and publications would give him the opportunity which he had
                            long been seeking. His personal prestige might be immensely heightened
                            thereby. He examined carefully into the financial phases of the
                            situation, using his son Hiram, whose 
                            financial judgment he had faith in, as an accountant and mouthpiece, and
                            finally, after seeing that he could secure the stock on a long-time
                            consideration for a very moderate valuation$1,500,000, while it was
                            worth $3,000,000he had his son Hiram elected director and president and
                            proceeded to see what could be done with the company.
                        In this approaching transaction Florence J. White had seen his
                            opportunity and seized it. He had realized on sight that Hiram would
                            need and possibly appreciate all the information and assistance he could
                            get, and being in a position to know he had laid all the facts in
                            connection with the house plainly before him. He saw clearly where the
                            trouble lay, the warring factions, the lack of editorial judgment, the
                            poor financial manipulations. He knew exactly where the stock was and by
                            what representations it could be best frightened and made to release
                            itself cheaply. He worked vigorously for Hiram because he liked him and
                            the latter reciprocated his regard.
                        "You've been a prince in this transaction,
                            White," he said to that individual one day.
                            "You've put things practically in my hands.
                            I'm not going to forget it."
                        "Don't mention it," said White.
                            "It's to my interest to see a real live man come in
                            here."
                        "When I become president, you become vice-president, and that
                            means twenty-five thousand a year." White was then getting
                            twelve.
                        "When I become vice-president nothing will ever happen to your
                            interests," returned the other man grimly. White was six feet
                            tall, lean, savage, only semi-articulate. Colfax was small, wiry,
                            excitable, with enough energy to explode a cartridge by yelling at it.
                            He was eager, vainglorious, in many respects brilliant. He wanted to
                            shine in the world, and he did not know how to do it as yet exactly.
                        The two shook hands firmly.
                        Some three months later Colfax was duly elected director and president,
                            and the same meeting that elected him president elected Florence J.
                            White vice-president. The latter was for clearing out all the old
                            elements and letting in new blood. Colfax was for going slow, until he
                            could see for himself what he wanted to do. One or two men were
                            eliminated at once, an old circulation man and an old advertising man.
                            In six months, while they were still contemplating additional changes
                            and looking for new men, Colfax senior died, and the
                            Swinton-Scudder-Davis Company, or at least Mr. Colfax's control
                            of it, was willed to Hiram. So he sat there, accidentally president, and
                                 in full charge, wondering how he
                            should make it a great success, and Florence J. White was his henchman
                            and sworn ally.
                        At the time that Colfax first heard of Eugene he had been in charge of
                            the Swinton-Scudder-Davis Company (which he was planning to
                            reincorporate as "The United Magazines Corporation")
                            for three years. He had made a number of changes, some radical, some
                            conservative. He had put in an advertising man whom he was now finding
                            unsatisfactory, and had made changes in the art and editorial
                            departments which were more the result of the suggestions of others,
                            principally of White, than the thoughts of his own brain. Martin W.
                            Davis had retired. He was old and sick, and unwilling to ruminate in a
                            back-room position. Such men as the editor of the National
                                Review, Swinton, Magazine, and Scudder's
                                Weekly were the only figures of importance about the place, and
                            they were now of course immensely subsidiary to Hiram Colfax and
                            Florence White.
                        The latter had introduced a rather hard, bitter atmosphere into the
                            place. He had been raised under difficult conditions himself in a back
                            street in Brooklyn, and had no sympathy with the airs and intellectual
                            insipidities which characterized the editorial and literary element
                            which filled the place. He had an Irishman's love of
                            organization and politics, but far and away above that he had an
                            Irishman's love of power. Because of the trick he had scored in
                            winning the favor of Hiram Colfax at the time when the tremendous
                            affairs of the concern were in a state of transition, he had become
                            immensely ambitious. He wanted to be not nominally but actually director
                            of the affairs of this house under Colfax, and he saw his way clear to
                            do it by getting editors, art directors, department heads and assistants
                            generally who were agreeable to him. But unfortunately he could not do
                            this directly, for while Colfax cared little about the details of the
                            business his hobby was just this one thingmen. Like Obadiah Kalvin, of
                            the Kalvin Publishing Company, who, by the way, was now his one great
                            rival, Colfax prided himself on his ability to select men. His general
                            idea was that if he could find one more man as good as Florence White to
                            take charge of the art, editorial and book end of the business, not from
                            the manufacturing and commercial, but from the intellectual and
                            spiritual endsa man with ideas who would draw to him authors, editors,
                            scientific writers and capable assistants generallythe fortune of the
                            house would be made. He thought, sanely enough from some points of view,
                            that this publishing world could be divided in this way. White bringing
                                 the inside manufacturing, purchasing
                            and selling interests to a state of perfection; the new man, whoever he
                            might be, bringing the ideas of the house and their literary and
                            artistic representation up to such a state of efficiency that the whole
                            country would know that it was once more powerful and successful. He
                            wanted to be called the foremost publisher of his day, and then he could
                            retire gracefully or devote himself to other financial matters as he
                            pleased.
                        He really did not understand Florence J. White as well as he did himself.
                            White was a past master at dissembling. He had no desire to see any such
                            thing as Colfax was now planning come to pass. He could not do the
                            things intellectually and spiritually which Colfax wanted done,
                            nevertheless he wanted to be king under this emperor, the real power
                            behind the throne, and he did not propose to brook any interference if
                            he could help it. It was in his power, having the printing and composing
                            room in his hands, to cause any man whom he greatly disliked to suffer
                            severely. Forms could be delayed, material lost, complaints lodged as to
                            dilatoriness in the matter of meeting schedules, and so on, ad
                            infinitum. He had the Irishman's love of chicanery in the
                            matter of morals. If he could get at an enemy's record and
                            there was a flaw in it, the facts were apt to become mysteriously known
                            at the most inconvenient times. He demanded the utmost loyalty of those
                            who worked under him. If a man did not know enough instinctively to work
                            intelligently for his interests, while at the same time appearing to
                            serve the interests of the house at large only, he was soon dismissed on
                            one pretext or another. Intelligent department heads, not sure of their
                            own strength and seeing which way the wind was blowing, soon lined up in
                            his course. Those whom he liked and who did his will prospered. Those
                            whom he disliked suffered greatly in their duties, and were forever
                            explaining or complaining to Colfax, who was not aware of
                            White's subtlety and who therefore thought them
                            incompetent.
                        Colfax, when he first heard of Eugene, was still cherishing his dream of
                            a literary and artistic primate who should rank in power with White. He
                            had not found him as yet, for all the men he sincerely admired and
                            thought fitted for the position were in business for themselves. He had
                            sounded one man after another, but to no satisfactory end. Then it
                            became necessary to fill the position of advertising manager with
                            someone who would make a conspicuous success of it, and he began to
                            sound various authorities. Naturally he looked at the different
                            advertising men working for various publications, and quickly came  to the name of Eugene Witla. The latter
                            was rumored to be making a shining success of his work. He was well
                            liked where he was. Two different business men told Colfax that they had
                            met him and that he was exceptionally clever. A third told him of his
                            record with Summerfield, and through a fourth man who knew Eugene, and
                            who was having him to lunch at the Hardware Club a few weeks later,
                            Colfax had a chance to meet him without appearing to be interested in
                            him in any way.
                        Not knowing who Colfax was, or rather very little, other than that he was
                            president of this great rival publishing concern, Eugene was perfectly
                            free and easy in his manner. He was never affected at any time,
                            decidedly eager to learn things from anybody and supremely good
                            natured.
                        "So you're Swinton, Scudder and Davis, are
                            you?" he said to Colfax on introduction. "That trinity
                            must have shrunk some to get condensed into you, but I suppose the power
                            is all there."
                        "I don't know about that! I don't know about
                            that!" exclaimed Colfax electrically. He was always ready like
                            a grey-hound to run another a race. "They tell me Swinton and
                            Scudder were exceptionally big men. If you have as much force as you
                            have length there's nothing the matter with you,
                            though."
                        "Oh, I'm all right," said Eugene,
                            "when I'm by myself. These little men worry me,
                            though. They are so darned smart."
                        Colfax cackled ecstatically. He liked Eugene's looks. The
                            latter's manner, easy and not in any way nervous or irritable
                            but coupled with a heavenly alertness of eye, took his fancy. It was a
                            fit companion for his own terrific energy, and it was not unduly soft or
                            yielding.
                        "So you're the advertising manager of the North American. How'd they ever come to tie you down
                            to that?"
                        "They didn't tie me," said Eugene. "I
                            just lay down. But they put a nice fat salary on top of me to keep me
                            there. I wouldn't lie down for anything except a
                            salary."
                        He grinned smartly.
                        Colfax cackled.
                        "Well, my boy, it doesn't seem to be hurting your ribs,
                            does it? They've not caved in yet. Ha! Ha!Ha! Ha!
                            They've not, have they? Ha! Ha!"
                        Eugene studied this little man with great interest. He was taken by his
                            sharp, fierce, examining eye. He was so different from Kalvin, who was
                            about his size, but so much more quiet, peaceful, dignified. Colfax was
                            electric, noisy, insistent, like a  pert
                            jack-in-the-box; he seemed to be nothing but energy. Eugene thought of
                            him as having an electric body coated over with some thin veneer of
                            skin. He seemed as direct as a flash of lightning.
                        "Doing pretty good over there, are you?" he asked.
                            "I've heard a little something about you from time to
                            time. Not much. Not much. Just a little. Not unfavorable, though. Not
                            unfavorable."
                        "I hope not," said Eugene easily. He wondered why
                            Colfax was so interested in him. The latter kept looking him over much
                            as one might examine a prize animal. Their eyes would meet and
                            Colfax's would gleam with a savage but friendly fire.
                        "Well?" said Eugene to him finally.
                        "I'm just thinking, my boy! I'm just
                            thinking!" he returned, and that was all Eugene could get out
                            of him.
                        It was not long after this very peculiar meeting which stuck in
                            Eugene's memory that Colfax invited him over to his house in
                            New York to dinner. "I wish," he wrote one day not
                            long after this meeting, "that the next time you are in New
                            York you would let me know. I would like to have you come to my house to
                            dine. You and I ought to be pretty good friends. There are a number of
                            things I would like to talk to you about."
                        This was written on the paper of the United Magazines Corporation, which
                            had just been organized to take over the old company of Swinton, Scudder
                            and Davis, and was labeled "The Office of the
                            President."
                        Eugene thought this was significant. Could Colfax be going to make him an
                            offer of some kind? Well, the more the merrier! He was doing very well
                            indeed, and liked Mr. Kalvin very much, in fact, all his surroundings,
                            but, as an offer was a testimonial to merit and could be shown as such,
                            he would not be opposed to receiving it. It might strengthen him with
                            Kalvin if it did nothing else. He made an occasion to go over, first
                            talking the letter over with Angela, who was simply curious about the
                            whole thing. He told her how much interested Colfax appeared to be the
                            first time they met and that he fancied it might mean an offer from the
                            United Magazines Corporation at some time or other.
                        "I'm not particularly anxious about it," said
                            Eugene, "but I'd like to see what is
                            there."
                        Angela was not sure that it was wise to bother with it.
                            "It's a big firm," she said, "but it
                            isn't bigger than Mr. Kalvin's, and he's been
                            mighty nice to you. You'd better not do anything to injure
                            yourself with him."
                        
                        Eugene thought of this. It was sound advice. Still he wanted to hear.
                        "I won't do anything," he said. "I
                            would like to hear what he has to say, though."
                        A little later he wrote that he was coming on the twentieth and that he
                            would be glad to take dinner with Colfax.
                        The first meeting between Eugene and Colfax had been conclusive so far as
                            future friendship was concerned. These two, like Eugene and Summerfield,
                            were temperamentally in accord, though Colfax was very much superior to
                            Summerfield in his ability to command men.
                        This night when they met at dinner at Colfax's house the latter
                            was most cordial. Colfax had invited him to come to his office, and
                            together they went uptown in his automobile. His residence was in upper
                            Fifth Avenue, a new, white marble fronted building with great iron gates
                            at the door and a splendid entry set with small palms and dwarf cedars.
                            Eugene saw at once that this man was living in that intense atmosphere
                            of commercial and financial rivalry which makes living in New York so
                            keen. You could feel the air of hard, cold order about the place, the
                            insistence on perfection of appointment, the compulsion toward material
                            display which was held in check only by that sense of fitness, which
                            knowledge of current taste and the mode in everything demanded. His
                            automobile was very large and very new, the latest model, a great dark
                            blue affair which ran as silently as a sewing machine. The footman who
                            opened the door was six feet tall, dressed in knee breeches and a
                            swallow-tailed coat. The valet was a Japanese, silent, polite,
                            attentive. Eugene was introduced to Mrs. Colfax, a most graceful but
                            somewhat self-conscious woman. A French maid later presented two
                            children, a boy and a girl.
                        Eugene by now had become used to luxury in various forms, and this house
                            was not superior to many he had seen; but it ranked with the best.
                            Colfax was most free in it. He threw his overcoat to the valet
                            carelessly and tossed his babies in the air by turn, when they were
                            presented to him by the French maid. His wife, slightly taller than
                            himself, received a resounding smack.
                        "There, Ceta," he exclaimed (a diminutive for Cecile,
                            as Eugene subsequently learned), "how do you like that, eh?
                            Meet Mr. Witla. He's an artist and an art director and an
                            advertising manager and"
                        "A most humble person," put in Eugene smilingly.
                            "Not half as bad as you may think. His report is greatly
                            exaggerated."
                        
                        Mrs. Colfax smiled sweetly. "I discount much that he says at
                            once," she returned. "More later. Won't you
                            come up into the library?"
                        They ascended together, jesting. Eugene was pleased with what he saw.
                            Mrs. Colfax liked him. She excused herself after a little while and
                            Colfax talked life in general. "I'm going to show you
                            my house now, and after dinner I'm going to talk a little
                            business to you. You interest me. I may as well tell you
                            that."
                        "Well, you interest me, Colfax," said Eugene genially,
                            "I like you."
                        "You don't like me any more than I like you,
                            that's a sure thing," replied the other.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XXXIX
                        THE results of this evening were most pleasant, but in some ways
                            disconcerting. It became perfectly plain that Colfax was anxious to have
                            Eugene desert the Kalvin Company and come over to him.
                        "You people over there," he said to him at one stage of
                            the conversation, "have an excellent company, but it
                            doesn't compare with this organization which we are revising.
                            Why, what are your two publications to our seven? You have one eminently
                            successful onethe one you're onand no book business whatsoever!
                            We have seven publications all doing excellently well, and a book
                            business that is second to none in the country. You know that. If it
                            hadn't been that the business had been horribly mismanaged it
                            would never have come into my hands at all. Why, Witla, I want to tell
                            you one little fact in connection with that organization which will
                            illustrate everything else which might be said in connection with it
                            before I came here! They were wasting twenty thousand dollars a year on
                            ink alone. We were publishing a hundred absolutely useless books that
                            did not sell enough to pay for the cost of printing, let alone the
                            paper, plates, typework and cost of distribution. I think it's
                            safe to say we lost over a hundred thousand dollars a year that way. The
                            magazines were running down. They haven't waked up sufficiently
                            yet to suit me. But I'm looking for men. I'm really
                            looking for one man eventually who will take charge of all that
                            editorial and art work and make it into something exceptional. He wants
                            to be a man who can handle men. If I can get the right man I will even
                            include the advertising department, for that really belongs with the
                            literary and art sections. It depends on the man."
                        He looked significantly at Eugene, who sat there stroking his upper lip
                            with his hand.
                        "Well," he said thoughtfully, "that ought to
                            make a very nice place for someone. Whom have you in mind?"
                        "No one as yet that I'm absolutely sure of. I have one
                            man in mind who I think might come to fill the position after he had had
                            a look about the organization and a chance to study its needs a little.
                            It's a hard position to hold. It requires a man with
                            imagination, tact, judgment. He would have to be a sort of vice-Colfax,
                            for I can't give my attention permanently to that  business. I don't want to. I
                            have bigger fish to fry. But I want someone who will eventually be my
                            other self in these departments, who can get along with Florence White
                            and the men under him and hold his own in his own world. I want a sort
                            of bi-partisan commission down thereeach man supreme in his own
                            realm."
                        "It sounds interesting," said Eugene thoughtfully.
                            "Who's your man.?"
                        "As I say, he isn't quite ready yet, in my judgment,
                            but he is near it, and he's the right man! He's in
                            this room now. You're the man I'm thinking about,
                            Witla."
                        "No," said Eugene quietly.
                        "Yes; you," replied Colfax.
                        "You flatter me," he said, with a deprecatory wave of
                            his hand. "I'm not so sure that he is."
                        "Oh, yes, he is, if he thinks he is!" replied Colfax
                            emphatically. "Opportunity doesn't knock in vain at a
                            real man's door. At least, I don't believe it will
                            knock here and not be admitted. Why the advertising department of this
                            business alone is worth eighteen thousand dollars a year to begin
                            with."
                        Eugene sat up. He was getting twelve. Could he afford to ignore that
                            offer? Could the Kalvin Company afford to pay him that much? They were
                            paying him pretty well as it was. Could the Kalvin Company offer him the
                            prospects which this company was offering him?
                        "What is more, I might say," went on Colfax,
                            "the general publishing control of this organizationthe
                            position of managing publisher, which I am going to create and which
                            when you are fitted for it you can have, will be worth twenty-five
                            thousand dollars a year, and that oughtn't to be so very far
                            away, either."
                        Eugene turned that over in his mind without saying anything. This offer
                            coming so emphatically and definitely at this time actually made him
                            nervous and fearsome. It was such a tremendous thing to talk aboutthe
                            literary, art and advertising control of the United Magazines
                            Corporation. Who was this man White? What was he like? Would he be able
                            to agree with him? This man beside him was so hard, so brilliant, so
                            dynamic! He would expect so much.
                        And then his work with Townsend Miller and under Mr. Kalvin. How much he
                            had learned of the editorial game by merely talking and planning with
                            those two men! He had got the whole idea of timely topics, of big
                            progressive, national forecasts and features, of odd departments and
                            interesting pieces  of fiction and
                            personality studies, from talking with Miller alone. Kalvin had made
                            clear to him what constituted great craftsmen. Of course, long before,
                            he had suspected just how it was, but in Philadelphia he had sat in
                            conference with Miller and Kalvin, and knew. He had practically managed
                            the former's little art department for him without paying much
                            attention to it either. Couldn't he really handle this greater
                            thing if he tried? If he didn't, someone else would. Would the
                            man who would, be so much greater than himself?
                        "I'm not anxious that you should act hastily,"
                            said Colfax soothingly, after a little bit, for he saw that Eugene was
                            debating the question solemnly and that it was a severe problem for him.
                            "I know how you feel. You have gone into the Kalvin Company and
                            you've made good. They've been nice to you.
                            It's only natural that they should be. You hate to leave. Well,
                            think it over. I won't tempt you beyond your best judgment.
                            Think it over. There's a splendid chance here. Just the same, I
                            like you, and I think you are the man to get away with it. Come down to
                            my place tomorrow and let me show you what we have. I want to show our
                            resources. I don't think you know how big this thing really
                            is."
                        "Yes, I do," replied Eugene, smiling. "It
                            certainly is a fascinating proposition. But I can't make up my
                            mind about it now. It's something I want to think about.
                            I'd like to take my time, and I'll let you
                            know."
                        "Take all the time you want, my boy! Take all the time you
                            want!" exclaimed Colfax. "I'll wait for you a
                            little while. I'm in no life-or-death hurry. This position
                            can't be filled satisfactorily in a minute. When
                            you're ready, let me know what you decide. And now
                            let's go to the theatrewhat do you say?"
                        The automobile was called, Mrs. Colfax and her guest, Miss Genier,
                            appeared. There was an interesting evening in a box, with Eugene talking
                            gaily and entertainingly to all, and then an after-theatre bite at
                            Sherry's. The next morning, for he stayed all night at
                            Colfax's, they visited the United Magazines Corporation
                            building together, and at noon Eugene returned to Philadelphia.
                        His head was fairly seething and ringing with all he had seen and heard.
                            Colfax was a great man, he thought, greater in some respects than
                            Kalvin. He was more forceful, more enthusiastic, youngermore like
                            himself, than Kalvin. He could never fail, he was too rich. He would
                            make a success of this great corporationa tremendous successand if he
                            went he  might help make it with him. What
                            a thing that would be! Very different from working for a corporation
                            with whose success he had never had anything to do. Should he ignore
                            this offer? New York, a true art and literary standing; a great
                            executive and social standing; fame; moneyall these were calling. Why,
                            on eighteen or twenty-five thousand he could have a splendid studio
                            apartment of his own, say on Riverside Drive; he could entertain
                            magnificently; he could keep an automobile without worrying about it.
                            Angela would cease feeling that they had to be careful. It would be the
                            apex of lieutenantship for him. Beyond that he would take stock in the
                            company, or a business of his own. What a long distance he had come from
                            the days when, here as a boy, he had walked the streets, wondering where
                            he would find a $3 room, and when as an art failure he carried his
                            paintings about and sold them for ten and fifteen dollars. Dear Heaven,
                            what peculiar tricks fortune could play!
                        The discussion with Angela of this proposition led to some additional
                            uncertainty, for although she was greatly impressed with what Colfax
                            offered, she was afraid Eugene might be making a mistake in leaving
                            Kalvin. The latter had been so nice to Eugene. He had never associated
                            with him in any intimate way, but he and Angela had been invited to his
                            home on several formal occasions, and Eugene had reported that Kalvin
                            was constantly giving him good advice. His attitude in the office was
                            not critical but analytic and considerate.
                        "He's been mighty nice to me," Eugene said to
                            her one morning at breakfast; "they all have. It's a
                            shame to leave him. And yet, now that I look at it, I can see very
                            plainly that there is never going to be the field here that there will
                            be with the United Company. They have the publications and the book
                            business, and the Kalvin Company hasn't and won't
                            have. Kalvin is too old. They're in New York, too;
                            that's one thing I like about it. I'd like to live in
                            New York again. Wouldn't you?"
                        "It would be fine," said Angela, who had never really
                            cared for Philadelphia and who saw visions of tremendous superiority in
                            this situation. Philadelphia had always seemed a little out of the way
                            of things after New York and Paris. Only Eugene's good salary
                            and the comforts they had experienced here had made it tolerable.
                            "Why don't you speak to Mr. Kalvin and tell him just
                            what Mr. Colfax says," she asked. "It may be that
                            he'll offer to raise your salary so much that you'll
                            want to stay when he hears of this."
                        
                        "No danger," replied Eugene. "He may raise it
                            a bit, but he never can pay me twenty-five thousand dollars a year.
                            There isn't any reason for paying it. It takes a corporation
                            like the United to do it. There isn't a man in our place gets
                            that, unless it is Fredericks. Besides, I could never be anything more
                            here, or much more, than advertising manager. Miller has that editorial
                            job sewed up. He ought to have it, too, he's a good man. This
                            thing that Colfax offers lets me out into a new field. I don't
                            want to be an advertising manager all my days if I can help
                            it!"
                        "I don't want you to be, either, Eugene,"
                            sighed Angela. "It's a shame you can't quit
                            entirely and take up your art work. I've always thought that if
                            you were to stop now and go to painting you would make a success of it.
                            There's nothing the matter with your nerves now. It's
                            just a question of whether we want to live more simply for a while and
                            let you work at that. I'm sure you'd make a big
                            success of it."
                        "Art doesn't appeal to me so much as it did
                            once," replied Eugene. "I've lived too well
                            and I know a lot more about living than I once did. Where could I make
                            twelve thousand a year painting? If I had a hundred thousand or a couple
                            of hundred thousand laid aside, it would be a different thing, but I
                            haven't. All we have is that Pennsylvania Railroad stock and
                            those lots in Montclair eating their merry little heads off in taxes,
                            and that Steel common stock. If we go back to New York we ought to build
                            on that Montclair property, and rent it if we don't want to
                            live in it. If I quit now we wouldn't have more than two
                            thousand dollars a year outside of what I could earn, and what sort of a
                            life can you live on that?"
                        Angela saw, disappearing under those circumstances, the rather pleasant
                            world of entertainment in which they were disporting themselves. Art
                            distinction might be delightful, but would it furnish such a table as
                            they were sitting at this morning? Would they have as nice a home and as
                            many friends? Art was glorious, but would they have as many rides and
                            auto trips as they had now? Would she be able to dress as nicely? It
                            took money to produce a variety of clothinghouse, street, evening,
                            morning and other wear. Hats at thirty-five and forty dollars were not
                            in the range of artists' wives, as a rule. Did she want to go
                            back to a simpler life for his art's sake? Wouldn't it
                            be better to have him go with Mr. Colfax and make $25,000 a year for a
                            while and then have him retire?
                        "You'd better talk to Mr. Kalvin," she
                            counseled. "You'll  have
                            to do that, anyhow. See what he says. After that you can decide what you
                            must do."
                        Eugene hesitated, but after thinking it all over he decided that he
                            would.
                        One morning not long after, when he met Mr. Kalvin in the main hall on
                            the editorial floor, he said, "I'd like to talk to you
                            for a few moments some time today alone, Mr. Kalvin, if you can spare me
                            the time."
                        "Certainly. I'm not busy now," returned the
                            president. "Come right down. What is it you want to see me
                            about?"
                        "Well, I'll tell you," said Eugene, when they
                            had reached the former's office and he had closed the door.
                            "I've had an offer that I feel that I ought to talk to
                            you about. It's a pretty fascinating proposition and
                            it's troubling me. I owe it to you as well as to myself to
                            speak about it."
                        "Yes; what is it?" said Kalvin considerately.
                        "Mr. Colfax of the United Magazines Corporation came to me not
                            long ago and wanted to know if I would not come with him. He offers me
                            eighteen thousand dollars a year as advertising manager to begin with,
                            and a chance to take charge of all the art and editorial ends as well a
                            little later at twenty-five thousand dollars. He calls it the
                            managing-publishing end of the business. I've been thinking of
                            it seriously, for I've handled the art and advertising ends
                            here and at the Summerfield Company, and I have always imagined that I
                            knew something of the book and magazine business. I know it's a
                            rather large proposition, but I'm not at all sure that I
                            couldn't handle it."
                        Mr. Kalvin listened quietly. He saw what Colfax's scheme was and
                            liked it as a proposition. It was a good idea, but needed an exceptional
                            man for the position. Was Eugene the man? He wasn't sure of
                            that, and yet perchance he might be. Colfax, he thought, was a man of
                            excellent financial if not publishing judgment. He might, if he could
                            get the proper person, make an excellent success of his business. Eugene
                            interested him, perhaps more at first flash than he would later. This
                            man before him had a most promising appearance. He was clean, quick,
                            with an alert mind and eye. He could see how, because of
                            Eugene's success here, Colfax was thinking of him being even
                            more exceptional than he was. He was a good man, a fine man, under
                            direction. Would Colfax have the patience, the interest, the sympathy,
                            to work with and understand him?
                        "Now, let's think about that a little, Witla,"
                            he said quietly. "It's a flattering offer.
                            You'd be foolish if you didn't give it  careful consideration. Do you know
                            anything about the organization of that place over there?"
                        "No," replied Eugene, "nothing except what I
                            learned by casually going over it with Mr. Colfax."
                        "Do you know much about Colfax as a man?"
                        "Very little. I've only met him twice. He's
                            forceful, dramatic, a man with lots of ideas. I understand he's
                            very rich, three or four millions, someone told me."
                        Kalvin's hand moved indifferently. "Do you like
                            him?"
                        "Well, I can't say yet absolutely whether I do or
                            don't. He interests me a lot. He's wonderfully
                            dynamic. I'm sure I'm favorably impressed with
                            him."
                        "And he wants to give you charge eventually of all the magazines
                            and books, the publishing end?"
                        "So he says," said Eugene.
                        "I'd go a little slow if I were saddling myself with
                            that responsibility. I'd want to be sure that I knew all about
                            it. You want to remember, Witla, that running one department under the
                            direction and with the sympathetic assistance and consideration of
                            someone over you is very different from running four or five departments
                            on your own responsibility and with no one over you except someone who
                            wants intelligent guidance from you. Colfax, as I understand him,
                            isn't a publisher, either by tendency or training or education.
                            He's a financier. He'll want you, if you take that
                            position, to tell him how it shall be done. Now, unless you know a great
                            deal about the publishing business, you have a difficult task in that. I
                            don't want to appear to be throwing cold water on your natural
                            ambition to get up in the world. You're entitled to go higher
                            if you can. No one in your circle of acquaintances would wish you more
                            luck than I will if you decide to go. I want you to think carefully of
                            what you are doing. Where you are here you are perfectly safe, or as
                            nearly safe as any man is who behaves himself and maintains his natural
                            force and energy can be. It's only natural that you should
                            expect more money in the face of this offer, and I shall be perfectly
                            willing to give it to you. I intended, as you possibly expected, to do
                            somewhat better for you by January. I'll say now that if you
                            want to stay here you can have fourteen thousand now and possibly
                            sixteen thousand in a year or a year and a half from now. I
                            don't want to overload this department with what I consider an
                            undue salary. I think sixteen thousand dollars, when it is paid, will be
                            high for the work that is done here, but you're a good man and
                            I'm perfectly willing to pay it to you.
                        
                        "The thing for you to do is to make up your mind whether this
                            proposition which I now make you is safer and more in accord with your
                            desires than the one Mr. Colfax makes you. With him your eighteen
                            thousand begins at once. With me sixteen thousand is a year away,
                            anyhow. With him you have promise of an outlook which is much more
                            glittering than any you can reasonably hope for here, but you want to
                            remember that the difficulties will be, of course, proportionately
                            greater. You know something about me by now. You stilland don't
                            think I want to do him any injustice; I don'thave to learn
                            about Mr. Colfax. Now, I'd advise you to think carefully before
                            you act. Study the situation over there before you accept it. The United
                            Magazines Corporation is a great concern. I have no doubt that under Mr.
                            Colfax's management it has a brilliant future in store for it.
                            He is an able man. If you finally decide to go, come and tell me and
                            there will be no hard feelings one way or the other. If you decide to
                            stay, the new salary arrangement goes into effect at once. As a matter
                            of fact, I might as well have Mr. Fredericks credit that up to you so
                            that you can say that you have drawn that sum here. It won't do
                            you any harm. Then we can run along as before. I know it isn't
                            good business as a rule to try and keep a man who has been poisoned by a
                            bigger offer, and because I know that is the reason why I am only
                            offering you fourteen thousand dollars this year. I want to be sure that
                            you are sure that you want to stay. See?"
                        He smiled.
                        Eugene arose. "I see," he said. "You are one
                            of the best men I have ever known, Mr. Kalvin. You have constantly
                            treated me with more consideration than I ever expected to receive
                            anywhere. It has been a pleasure and a privilege to work for you. If I
                            stay, it will be because I want tobecause I value your
                            friendship."
                        "Well," said Kalvin quietly, "that's
                            very nice, I'm sure, and I appreciate it. But don't
                            let your friendship for me or your sense of gratitude stop you from
                            doing something you think you ought to do. Go ahead if you feel like it.
                            I won't feel the least bit angry with you. I'll feel
                            sorry, but that's neither here nor there. Life is a constant
                            condition of readjustment, and every good business man knows
                            it."
                        He took Eugene's extended hand.
                        "Good luck," he said, "whatever you
                            do"his favorite expression.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XL
                        THE upshot of Eugene's final speculation was that he accepted
                            the offer of the United Magazines Corporation and left Mr. Kalvin.
                            Colfax had written one day to his house asking him what he thought he
                            would do about it. The more he had turned it over in his mind, the more
                            it had grown in attraction. The Colfax company was erecting a tremendous
                            building, eighteen stories high, in the heart of the middle business
                            district in New York near Union Square, to house all their departments.
                            Colfax had said at the time Eugene took dinner with him that the
                            sixteenth, seventeenth and eighteenth floors would be devoted to the
                            editorial, publication, circulation, art, and advertising departments.
                            He had asked Eugene what he had thought would be a good floor
                            arrangement, and the latter, with his usual facility for scheming such
                            things, had scratched on a piece of paper a tentative layout for the
                            various departments. He had put the editorial and art departments on the
                            topmost floor, giving the publisher, whoever he might eventually prove
                            to be, a commanding position in a central room on the western side of
                            the building which overlooked all the city between the Square and Hudson
                            River, and showed that magnificent body of water as a panorama for the
                            eye to feast upon. He had put the advertising and some overflow
                            editorial rooms on the seventeenth floor, and the circulation with its
                            attendant mailing and cabinet record rooms on the sixteenth. The
                            publisher's and editor's rooms he laid out after an
                            old Flemish scheme he had long had in mind, in which green, dark blue,
                            blood-red and black walnut shades contrasted richly with the flood of
                            light which would be available.
                        "You might as well do this thing right if you do it at
                            all," he had said to Colfax. "Nearly all the editorial
                            offices I have ever seen have been the flimsiest makeshifts. A
                            rich-looking editorial, art and advertising department would help your
                            company a great deal. It has advertising value."
                        He recalled as he spoke Summerfield's theory that a look of
                            prosperity was about the most valuable asset a house could have.
                        Colfax agreed with him, and said when the time came that he wished Eugene
                            would do him the favor to come and look the thing over. "I have
                            two good architects on the job," he explained,  "but I would rather trust your
                            ideas as to how those rooms should be laid out."
                        When he was considering this final call for a decision he was thinking
                            how this floor would lookhow rich it would be. Eventually, if he
                            succeeded, his office would be the most sumptuous thing in it. He would
                            be the most conspicuous figure in the great, new building, apart from
                            Colfax himself.
                        Thoughts of this kind, which ought to have had but very little share in
                            any commercial speculation, were nevertheless upper-most in
                            Eugene's mind; for he was not a business manhe was primarily an
                            artist, and for all his floundering round in the commercial world he
                            remained an artist still. His sense of his coming dignity and standing
                            before the world was almost greater than his sense of the terrifying
                            responsibility which it involved. Colfax was a hard man, he knew, harder
                            even than Summerfield, for he talked less and acted more; but this did
                            not sink into Eugene's consciousness sufficiently to worry him.
                            He fancied he was a strong man, able to hold his own anywhere.
                        Angela was really not very much opposed to the change, though her natural
                            conservatism made her worry and hesitate to approve. It was a great step
                            forward if Eugene succeeded, but if he failed it would be such a
                            loss.
                        "Colfax has so much faith in me," he told her.
                            "He's convinced that I can do it, and faith like that
                            is a great help. I'd like to try it, anyhow. It can't
                            do me any harm. If I think I can't handle the publishing
                            proposition I'll stick to the advertising end."
                        "All right," said Angela, "but I scarcely know
                            what to advise. They've been so nice to you over
                            here."
                        "I'll try it," said Eugene determinedly.
                            "Nothing venture, nothing have," and he informed
                            Kalvin the same day.
                        The latter looked at him solemnly, his keen gray eyes contemplating the
                            situation from all points of view. "Well, Eugene," he
                            said, "you're shouldering a great responsibility.
                            It's difficult. Think carefully of everything that you do.
                            I'm sorry to see you go. Good-bye."
                        He had the feeling that Eugene was making a mistakethat he would do
                            better to rest a while where he was; but persuasion was useless. It
                            would only give Eugene the notion that he was more important than he
                            wasmake matters more difficult in the future.
                        Kalvin had heard a number of things concerning Colfax recently, and he
                            fancied that Eugene might find it hard to deal with him later. The
                            general impression was that he was subject  to sudden likes and dislikes which did not bear the test or time. He
                            was said to be scarcely human enough to be the effective head of a great
                            working corporation.
                        The truth was that this general opinion was quite correct. Colfax was as
                            hard as steel but of a smiling and delightful presence to those he
                            fancied. Vanity was really his other name, and ambition with him knew no
                            bounds. He hoped to make a tremendous success of his life, to be looked
                            up to as an imposing financier, and he wanted menonly
                            strong men about him. Eugene seemed to Colfax to be a strong man, and
                            the day he finally communicated with him saying that he thought that he
                            would accept his offer but that he wished to talk to him further, Colfax
                            threw his hat up in the air, slapped his side partner White on the back,
                            and exclaimed: "Whee! Florrie! There's a trick
                            I've scored for this corporation. There's a man,
                            unless I am greatly mistaken, will do something here. He's
                            young but he's all right. He's got the looks on you
                            and me, Florrie, but we can stand that, can't we?"
                        White eyed him, with a show of joy and satisfaction which was purely
                            simulated. He had seen many editors and many advertising men in his
                            time. To his judgment they were nearly all lightweights, men who were
                            easily satisfied with the little toy wherewith he or anyone might decide
                            to gratify their vanity. This was probably another case in point, but if
                            a real publisher were coming in here it would not be so well with him.
                            He might attempt to crowd in on his authority or at least divide it with
                            him. That did not appeal to his personal vanity. It really put a
                            stumbling block in his path, for he hoped to rule here some day alone.
                            Why was it that Colfax was so eager to have the authority in this house
                            divided? Was it because he was somewhat afraid of him? He thought so,
                            and he was exceedingly close to the truth when he thought so.
                        "Florrie's a good lieutenant," Colfax said to
                            himself, "but he needs to be counterbalanced here by someone
                            who will represent the refinements and that intellectual superiority
                            which the world respects."
                        He wanted this refinement and intellectual superiority to be popular with
                            the public, and to produce results in the shape of increased circulation
                            for his magazines and books. These two would then act as checks each to
                            the other, thus preventing the house from becoming overweighted in
                            either direction. Then he could drive this team as a grand masterthe man
                            who had selected both, whose ideas they represented, and whose judgment
                                 they respected. The world of finance
                            and trade would know they were nothing without him.
                        What Eugene thought and what White thought of this prospective situation
                            was that the other would naturally be the minor figure, and that he
                            under Colfax would be the shining light. Eugene was convinced that the
                            house without proper artistic and intellectual dominance was nothing.
                            White was convinced that without sane commercial management it was a
                            failure and that this was the thing to look to. Money could buy
                            brains.
                        Colfax introduced Eugene to White on the morning he arrived to take
                            charge, for on the previous occasions when he had been there White was
                            absent. The two looked at each other and immediately suspended judgment,
                            for both were able men. Eugene saw White as an interesting typetall,
                            leathery, swaggering, a back-street bully evolved into the semblance of
                            a gentleman. White saw in Eugene a nervous, refined, semi-emotional
                            literary and artistic type who had, however, a curious versatility and
                            virility not common among those whom he had previously encountered. He
                            was exceedingly forceful but not poised. That he could eventually
                            undermine him if he could not dominate him he did not doubt. Still he
                            was coming in with the backing of Colfax and a great reputation, and it
                            might not be easy. Eugene made him feel nervous. He wondered as he
                            looked at him whether Colfax would really make him general literary,
                            artistic and advertising administrator, or whether he would remain
                            simply advertising manager as he now entered. Colfax had not accepted
                            Eugene for more than that.
                        "Here he is, Florrie," Colfax had said of Eugene, in
                            introducing him to White. "This is the man I've been
                            talking about. WitlaMr. White. WhiteMr. Witla. You two want to get
                            together for the good of this house in the future. What do you think of
                            each other?"
                        Eugene had previously noted the peculiarity of this rowdy, rah! rah!
                            attitude on the part of Colfax. He seemed to have no sense of the
                            conventions of social address and conference at any time.
                        "Now, by God," Colfax exclaimed, striking his right
                            fist against his left palm, "unless I am greatly mistaken, this
                            house is going to begin to move! I'm not positive that I have
                            the man I want, but I think I have. White, let's stroll around
                            and introduce him."
                        White swaggered to the office door.
                        
                        "Sure," he said quietly. "An exceptional
                            man," he said to himself.
                        Colfax was almost beside himself with satisfaction, for he was subject to
                            emotional flushes which, however, related to self-aggrandizement only.
                            He walked with a great stride (little as he was), which was his wont
                            when he was feeling particularly satisfied. He talked in a loud voice,
                            for he wanted everyone to know that he, Hiram Colfax, was about and as
                            forceful as the lord of so great an institution should be. He could yell
                            and scream something like a woman in a paroxysm of rage when he was
                            thwarted or irritated. Eugene did not know that as yet.
                        "Here's one of the printing floors," he said
                            to Eugene, throwing open a door which revealed a room full of thundering
                            presses of giant size. "Where's Dodson, boy?
                            Where's Dodson? Tell him to come here. He's foreman of
                            our printing department," he added, turning to Eugene, as the
                            printer's devil, who had been working at a press, scurried away
                            to find his master. "I told you, I guess, that we have thirty
                            of these presses. There are four more floors just like
                            this."
                        "So you did," replied Eugene. "It certainly is
                            a great concern. I can see that the possibilities of a thing like this
                            are almost limitless."
                        "LimitlessI should say! It depends on what you can do with
                            this," and he tapped Eugene's forehead. "If
                            you do your part right, and he does his"turning to
                            White"there won't be any limit to what this house can
                            do. That remains to be seen."
                        Just then Dodson came bustling up, a shrewd, keen henchman of
                            White's, and looked at Eugene curiously.
                        "Dodson, Mr. Witla, the new advertising manager. He's
                            going to try to help pay for all this wasteful presswork you're
                            doing. Witla, Mr. Dodson, manager of the printing
                            department."
                        The two men shook hands. Eugene felt in a way as though he were talking
                            to an underling, and did not pay very definite attention to him. Dodson
                            resented his attitude somewhat, but gave no sign. His loyalty was to
                            White, and he felt himself perfectly safe under that man's
                            supervision.
                        The next visit was to the composing room where a vast army of men were
                            working away at type racks and linotype machines. A short, fat,
                            ink-streaked foreman in a green striped apron that looked as though it
                            might have been made of bed ticking came forward to greet them
                            ingratiatingly. He was plainly nervous  at
                            their presence, and withdrew his hand when Eugene offered to take
                            it.
                        "It's too dirty," he said.
                            "I'll take the will for the deed, Mr.
                            Witla."
                        More explanations and laudations of the extent of the business
                            followed.
                        Then came the circulation department with its head, a tall dark man who
                            looked solemnly at Eugene, uncertain as to what place he was to have in
                            the organization and uncertain as to what attitude he should ultimately
                            have to take. White was "butting into his affairs," as
                            he told his wife, and he did not know where it would end. He had heard
                            rumors to the effect that there was to be a new man soon who was to have
                            great authority over various departments. Was this he?
                        There came next the editors of the various magazines, who viewed this
                            triumphal procession with more or less contempt, for to them both Colfax
                            and White were raw, uncouth upstarts blazoning their material
                            superiority in loud-mouthed phrases. Colfax talked too loud and was too
                            vainglorious. White was too hard, bitter and unreasoning. They hated
                            them both with a secret hate but there was no escaping their domination.
                            The need of living salaries held all in obsequious subjection.
                        "Here's Mr. Marchwood," Colfax said
                            inconsiderately of the editor of the International
                                Review. "He thinks he's making a wonderful
                            publication of that, but we don't know whether he is yet or
                            not."
                        Eugene winced for Marchwood. He was so calm, so refined, so
                            professional.
                        "I suppose we can only go by the circulation
                            department," he replied simply, attracted by Eugene's
                            sympathetic smile.
                        "That's all! That's all!" exclaimed
                            Colfax.
                        "That is probably true," said Eugene, "but a
                            good thing ought to be as easily circulated as a poor one. At least
                            it's worth trying."
                        Mr. Marchwood smiled. It was a bit of intellectual kindness in a world of
                            cruel comment.
                        "It's a great institution," said Eugene
                            finally, on reaching the president's office again.
                            "I'll begin now and see what I can do."
                        "Good luck, my boy. Good luck!" said Colfax loudly.
                            "I'm laying great stress on what you're going
                            to do, you know."
                        "Don't lean too hard," returned Eugene.
                            "Remember, I'm just one in a great
                            organization."
                        
                        "I know, I know, but the one is all I need up
                                therethe one, see?"
                        "Yes, yes," laughed Eugene, "cheer up.
                            We'll be able to do a little something, I'm
                            sure."
                        "A great man, that," Colfax declared to White as he
                            went away. "The real stuff in that fellow, no flinching there
                            you notice. He knows how to think. Now, Florrie, unless I miss my guess
                            you and I are going to get somewhere with this thing."
                        White smiled gloomily, almost cynically. He was not so sure. Eugene was
                            pretty good, but he was obviously too independent, too artistic, to be
                            really stable and dependable. He would never run to him for advice, but
                            he would probably make mistakes. He might lose his head. What must he do
                            to offset this new invasion of authority? Discredit him? Certainly. But
                            he needn't worry about that. Eugene would do something. He
                            would make mistakes of some kind. He felt sure of it. He was almost
                            positive of it.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XLI
                        THE opening days of this their second return to New York were a period of
                            great joy to Angela. Unlike that first time when she was returning after
                            seven months of loneliness and unhappiness to a sick husband and a
                            gloomy outlook, she was now looking forward to what, in spite of her
                            previous doubts, was a glorious career of dignity, prosperity and
                            abundance. Eugene was such an important man now. His career was so well
                            marked and in a way almost certified. They had a good bit of money in
                            the bank. Their investments in stocks, on which they obtained a uniform
                            rate of interest of about seven per cent., aggregated $30,000. They had
                            two lots, two hundred by two hundred, in Montclair, which were said to
                            be slowly increasing in value and which Eugene now estimated to be worth
                            about six thousand. He was talking about investing what additional money
                            he might save in stocks bearing better interest or some sound commercial
                            venture. When the proper time came, a little later, he might even
                            abandon the publishing field entirely and renew his interest in art. He
                            was certainly getting near the possibility of this.
                        The place which they selected for their residence in New York was in a
                            new and very sumptuous studio apartment building on Riverside Drive near
                            Seventy-ninth Street, where Eugene had long fancied he would like to
                            live. This famous thoroughfare and show place with its restricted park
                            atmosphere, its magnificent and commanding view of the lordly Hudson,
                            its wondrous woods of color and magnificent sunsets had long taken his
                            eye. When he had first come to New York it had been his delight to
                            stroll here watching the stream of fashionable equipages pour out
                            towards Grant's Tomb and return. He had sat on a park bench
                            many an afternoon at this very spot or farther up, and watched the gay
                            company of horsemen and horsewomen riding cheerfully by, nodding to
                            their social acquaintances, speaking to the park keepers and road
                            scavengers in a condescending and superior way, taking their leisure in
                            a comfortable fashion and looking idly at the river. It seemed a
                            wonderful world to him at that time. Only millionaires could afford to
                            live there, he thoughtso ignorant was he of the financial tricks of the
                            world. These handsomely garbed men in riding coats and breeches; the
                            chic looking girls in stiff black hats, trailing  black riding skirts, yellow gloved, and sporting short
                            whips which looked more like dainty canes than anything else, took his
                            fancy greatly. It was his idea at that time that this was almost the
                            apex of social gloryto be permitted to ride here of an afternoon.
                        Since then he had come a long way and learned a great deal, but he still
                            fancied this street as one of the few perfect expressions of the
                            elegance and luxury of metropolitan life, and he wanted to live on it.
                            Angela was given authority, after discussion, to see what she could find
                            in the way of an apartment of say nine or eleven rooms with two baths or
                            more, which should not cost more than three thousand or three thousand
                            five hundred. As a matter of fact, a very handsome apartment of nine
                            rooms and two baths including a studio room eighteen feet high, forty
                            feet long and twenty-two feet wide was found at the now, to them,
                            comparatively moderate sum of three thousand two hundred. The chambers
                            were beautifully finished in old English oak carved and stained after a
                            very pleasing fifteenth century model, and the walls were left to the
                            discretion of the incoming tenant. Whatever was desired in the way of
                            tapestries, silks or other wall furnishing would be supplied.
                        Eugene chose green-brown tapestries representing old Rhine Castles for
                            his studio, and blue and brown silks for his wall furnishings elsewhere.
                            He now realized a long cherished dream of having the great wooden cross
                            of brown stained oak, ornamented with a figure of the bleeding Christ,
                            which he set in a dark shaded corner behind two immense wax candles set
                            in tall heavy bronze candlesticks, the size of small bed posts. These
                            when lighted in an otherwise darkened room and flickering ruefully, cast
                            a peculiar spell of beauty over the gay throngs which sometimes
                            assembled here. A grand piano in old English oak occupied one corner, a
                            magnificent music cabinet in French burnt woodwork, stood near by. There
                            were a number of carved and fluted high back chairs, a carved easel with
                            one of his best pictures displayed, a black marble pedestal bearing a
                            yellow stained marble bust of Nero, with his lascivious, degenerate
                            face, scowling grimly at the world, and two gold plated candelabra of
                            eleven branches each hung upon the north wall.
                        Two wide, tall windows with storm sashes, which reached from the floor to
                            the ceiling, commanded the West view of the Hudson. Outside one was a
                            small stone balcony wide enough to accommodate four chairs, which gave a
                            beautiful, cool view of the drive. It was shielded by an awning in
                            summer and was nine storeys above the ground. Over the water of the more
                            or  less peaceful stream were the stacks
                            and outlines of a great factory, and in the roadstead lay boats always,
                            war vessels, tramp freighters, sail boats, and up and down passed the
                            endless traffic of small craft always so pleasant to look upon in fair
                            or foul weather. It was a beautiful apartment, beautifully finished in
                            which most of their furniture, brought from Philadelphia, fitted
                            admirably. It was here that at last they settled down to enjoy the fruit
                            of that long struggle and comparative victory which brought them so near
                            their much desired goalan indestructible and unchangeable competence
                            which no winds of ill fortune could readily destroy.
                        Eugene was quite beside himself with joy and satisfaction at thus finding
                            himself and Angela eventually surrounded by those tokens of luxury,
                            comfort and distinction which had so long haunted his brain. Most of us
                            go through life with the furniture of our prospective castle well
                            outlined in mind, but with never the privilege of seeing it realized. We
                            have our pictures, our hangings, our servitors well and ably selected.
                            Eugene's were real at last.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XLII
                        THE affairs of the United Magazines Corporation, so far as the
                            advertising, commercial and manufacturing ends at least were concerned,
                            were not in such an unfortunate condition by any means as to preclude
                            their being quickly restored by tact, good business judgment and hard
                            work. Since the accession to power of Florence White in the commercial
                            and financial ends, things in that quarter at least had slowly begun to
                            take a turn for the better. Although he had no judgment whatsoever as to
                            what constituted a timely article, an important book or a saleable art
                            feature, he had that peculiar intuition for right methods of
                            manufacture, right buying and right selling of stock, right handling of
                            labor from the cost and efficiency point of view, which made him a power
                            to be reckoned with. He knew a good manufacturing man to employ at
                            sight. He knew where books could be sold and how. He knew how to buy
                            paper in large quantities and at the cheapest rates, and how to print
                            and manufacture at a cost which was as low as could possibly be figured.
                            All waste was eliminated. He used his machines to their utmost capacity,
                            via a series of schedules which saved an immense amount of waste and
                            demanded the least possible help. He was constantly having trouble with
                            the labor unions on this score, for they objected to a policy which cut
                            out duplication of effort and so eliminated their men. He was an iron
                            master, however, coarse, brutal, foul when dealing with them, and they
                            feared and respected him.
                        In the advertising end of the business things had been going rather
                            badly, for the reason that the magazines for which this department was
                            supposed to get business had not been doing so well editorially. They
                            were out of touch with the times to a certain extentnot in advance of
                            the feelings and emotions of the period, and so the public was beginning
                            to be inclined to look elsewhere for its mental pabulum. They had had
                            great circulation and great prestige. That was when they were younger,
                            and the original publishers and editors in their prime. Since then days
                            of weariness, indifference and confusion had ensued. Only with the
                            accession of Colfax to power had hope begun to return. As has been said,
                            he was looking for strong men in every quarter of this field, but in
                            particular he was looking for one man who would tell him how to govern
                            them  after he had them. Who was to dream
                            out the things which would interest the public in each particular
                            magazine proposition? Who was to draw great and successful authors to
                            the book end of the house? Who was to inspire the men who were directing
                            the various departments with the spirit which would bring public
                            interest and success? Eugene might be the man eventually he hoped, but
                            how soon? He was anxious to hurry his progress now that he had him.
                        It was not long after Eugene was seated in his advertising managerial
                            chair that he saw how things lay. His men, when he gathered them in
                            conference, complained that they were fighting against falling
                            circulations.
                        "You can talk all you want, Mr. Witla," said one of his
                            men gloomily, "but circulation and circulation only is the
                            answer. They have to keep up the magazines here. All these manufacturers
                            know when they get results. We go out and get new business all the time,
                            but we don't keep it. We can't keep it. The magazines
                            don't bring results. What are you going to do about
                            that?"
                        "I'll tell you what we are going to do,"
                            replied Eugene calmly, "we're going to key up the
                            magazines. I understand that a number of changes are coming in that
                            direction. They are doing better already. The manufacturing department,
                            for one thing, is in splendid shape. I know that. In a short time the
                            editorial departments will be. I want you people to put up, at this
                            time, the best fight you know how under the conditions as they are.
                            I'm not going to make any changes here if I can help it.
                            I'm going to show you how it can be doneeach one separately. I
                            want you to believe that we have the greatest organization in the world,
                            and it can be made to sweep everything before it. Take a look at Mr.
                            Colfax. Do you think he is ever going to fail? We may, but he
                            won't."
                        The men liked Eugene's manner and confidence. They liked his
                            faith in them, and it was not more than ten days before he had won their
                            confidence completely. He took home to the hotel where he and Angela
                            were stopping temporarily all the magazines, and examined them
                            carefully. He took home a number of the latest books issued, and asked
                            Angela to read them. He tried to think just what it was each magazine
                            should represent, and who and where was the man who would give to each
                            its proper life and vigor. At once, for the adventure magazine, he
                            thought of a man whom he had met years before who had since been making
                            a good deal of a success editing a Sunday newspaper magazine supplement,
                            jack Bezenah. He  had started out to be a
                            radical writer, but had tamed down and become a most efficient newspaper
                            man. Eugene had met him several times in the last few years and each
                            time had been impressed by the force and subtlety of his judgment of
                            life. Once he had said to him, "Jack, you ought to be editing a
                            magazine of your own."
                        "I will be, I will be," returned that worthy. Now as he
                            looked at this particular proposition Bezenah stuck in his mind as the
                            man who should be employed. He had seen the present editor, but he
                            seemed to have no force at all.
                        The weekly needed a man like Townsend Millerwhere would he find him? The
                            present man's ideas were interesting but not sufficiently
                            general in their appeal. Eugene went about among the various editors
                            looking at them, ostensibly making their acquaintance, but he was not
                            satisfied with any one of them.
                        He waited to see that his own department was not needing any vast effort
                            on his part before he said to Colfax one day:
                        "Things are not right with your editorial department.
                            I've looked into my particular job to see that there is nothing
                            so radically behindhand there but what it can be remedied, but your
                            magazines are not right. I wish, aside from salary proposition entirely,
                            that you would let me begin to make a few changes. You haven't
                            the right sort of people upstairs. I'll try not to move too
                            fast, but you couldn't be worse off than you are now in some
                            instances."
                        "I know it!" said Colfax. "I know it! What do
                            you suggest?"
                        "Simply better men, that's all," replied
                            Eugene. "Better men with newer ideas. It may cost you a little
                            more money at present, but it will bring you more back in the long
                            run."
                        "You're right! You're right!"
                            insisted Colfax enthusiastically. "I've been waiting
                            for someone whose judgment I thought was worth two whoops to come and
                            tell me that for a long time. So far as I'm concerned you can
                            take charge right now! The salary that I promised you goes with it. I
                            want to tell you something, though! I want to tell you something!
                            You're going in there now with full authority, but
                            don't you fall or stub your toe or get sick or make any
                            mistakes. If you do, God help you! if you do, I'll eat you
                            alive! I'm a good employer, Witla. I'll pay any price
                            for good men, within reason, but if I think I'm being done, or
                            made a fool of, or a man is making a mistake, then there's no
                            mercy in menot a single bit. I'm a plain, everyday blank,
                            blank, blank" (and he  used a
                            term so foul that it would not bear repetition in print), "and
                            that's all there is to me. Now we understand each
                            other."
                        Eugene looked at the man in astonishment. There was a hard, cold gleam in
                            his blue eyes which he had seen there before. His presence was
                            electrichis look demoniac.
                        "I've had a remark somewhat of that nature made to me
                            before," commented Eugene. He was thinking of
                            Summerfield's "the coal chute for yours." He
                            had hardly expected to hear so cold and definite a proposition laid down
                            so soon after his entry upon his new duties, but here it was, and he had
                            to face it. He was sorry for the moment that he had ever left
                            Kalvin.
                        "I'm not at all afraid of responsibility,"
                            replied Eugene grimly. "I'm not going to fall down or
                            stub my toe or make any mistakes if I can help it. And if I do I
                            won't complain to you."
                        "Well, I'm only telling you," said Colfax,
                            smiling and good-natured again. The cold light was gone. "And I
                            mean it in the best way in the world. I'll back you up with all
                            power and authority, but if you fail, God help you; I
                            can't."
                        He went back to his desk and Eugene went upstairs. He felt as though the
                            red cap of a cardinal had been put upon his head, and at the same time
                            an axe suspended over him. He would have to think carefully of what he
                            was doing from now on. He would have to go slow, but he would have to
                            go. All power had been given himall authority. He could go upstairs now
                            and discharge everybody in the place. Colfax would back him up, but he
                            would have to replace them. And that quickly and effectively. It was a
                            trying hour, notable but grim.
                        His first move was to send for Bezenah. He had not seen him for some
                            time, but his stationery which he now had headed "The United
                            Magazines Corporation," and in one corner "Office of
                            the Managing Publisher," brought him fast enough. It was a
                            daring thing to do in a way thus to style himself managing publisher,
                            when so many able men were concerned in the work, but this fact did not
                            disturb him. He was bound and determined to begin, and this
                            stationerythe mere engraving of itwas as good a way as any of serving
                            notice that he was in the saddle. The news flew like wild fire about the
                            building, for there were many in his office, even his private
                            stenographer, to carry the news. All the editors and assistants wondered
                            what it could mean, but they asked no questions, except among  themselves. No general announcement had
                            been made. On the same stationery he sent for Adolph Morgenbau, who had
                            exhibited marked skill at Summerfield's as his assistant, and
                            who had since become art editor of The Sphere, a
                            magazine of rising importance. He thought that Morgenbau might now be
                            fitted to handle the art work under him, and he was not mistaken.
                            Morgenbau had developed into a man of considerable force and
                            intelligence, and was only too glad to be connected with Eugene again.
                            He also talked with various advertising men, artists and writers as to
                            just who were the most live editorial men in the field at that time, and
                            these he wrote to, asking if they would come to see him. One by one they
                            came, for the fact that he had come to New York to take charge not only
                            of the advertising but the editorial ends of the United Magazines
                            Corporation spread rapidly over the city. All those interested in art,
                            writing, editing and advertising heard of it. Those who had known
                            something of him in the past could scarcely believe their ears. Where
                            did he get the skill?
                        Eugene stated to Colfax that he deemed it advisable that a general
                            announcement be made to the staff that he was in charge. "I
                            have been looking about," he said, "and I think I know
                            what I want to do."
                        The various editors, art directors, advertising men and book workers were
                            called to the main office and Colfax announced that he wished to make a
                            statement which affected all those present. "Mr. Witla here
                            will be in charge of all the publishing ends of this business from now
                            on. I am withdrawing from any say in the matter, for I am satisfied that
                            I do not know as much about it as he does. I want you all to look to him
                            for advice and counsel just as you have to me in the past. Mr. White
                            will continue in charge of the manufacturing and distributing end of the
                            business. Mr. White and Mr. Witla will work together. That's
                            all I have to say."
                        The company departed, and once more Eugene returned to his office. He
                            decided at once to find an advertising man who could work under him and
                            run that branch of the business as well as he would. He spent some time
                            looking for this man, and finally found him working for the Hays-Rickert
                            Company, a man whom he had known something of in the past as an
                            exceptional worker. He was a strong, forceful individual of thirty-two,
                            Carter Hayes by name, who was very anxious to succeed in his chosen
                            work, and who saw a great opportunity here. He did not like Eugene so
                            very wellhe thought that he was over-estimatedbut he decided to work for
                            him. The  latter put him in at ten
                            thousand a year and then turned his attention to his new duties
                            completely.
                        The editorial and publishing world was entirely new to Eugene from the
                            executive side. He did not understand it as well as he did the art and
                            advertising worlds, and because it was in a way comparatively new and
                            strange to him he made a number of initial mistakes. His first was in
                            concluding that all the men about him were more or less weak and
                            inefficient, principally because the magazines were weak, when, as a
                            matter of fact, there were a number of excellent men whom conditions had
                            repressed, and who were only waiting for some slight recognition to be
                            of great value. In the next place, he was not clear as to the exact
                            policies to be followed in the case of each publication, and he was not
                            inclined to listen humbly to those who could tell him. His best plan
                            would have been to have gone exceedingly slow, watching the men who were
                            in charge, getting their theories and supplementing their efforts with
                            genial suggestions. Instead he decided on sweeping changes and not long
                            after he had been in charge he began to make them. Marchwood, the editor
                            of the Review, was removed, as was Gailer of the Weekly. The editorship of the Adventure
                                Story Magazine was given to Bezenah.
                        In any organization of this kind, however, great improvements cannot be
                            effected in a moment, and weeks and months must elapse before any
                            noticeable change can be shown. Instead of throwing the burden of
                            responsibility on each of his assistants and leaving it there, making
                            occasional criticisms, Eugene undertook to work with each and all of
                            them, endeavoring to direct the policy intimately in each particular
                            case. It was not easy, and to him at times it was confusing. He had a
                            great deal to learn. Still he did have helpful ideas in a score of
                            directions daily and these told. The magazines were improved. The first
                            issues which were affected by his judgment and those of his men were
                            inspected closely by Colfax and White. The latter was particularly
                            anxious to see what improvement had been made, and while he could not
                            judge well himself, he had the means of getting opinions. Nearly all
                            these were favorable, much to his disappointment, for he hoped to find
                            things to criticize.
                        Colfax, who had been watching Eugene's determined air, the
                            energy with which he went about his work and the manner in which he
                            freely accepted responsibility, came to admire him even more than he had
                            before. He liked him sociallyhis companionship after business hoursand
                            began to invite him up to the house to dinner. Unlike Kalvin, on most of
                            these occasions  he did not take Angela
                            into consideration, for having met her he was not so very much impressed
                            with her. She was nice, but not of the same coruscating quality as her
                            husband. Mrs. Colfax expressed a derogatory opinion, and this also made
                            it difficult. He sincerely wished that Eugene were single.
                        Time passed. As Eugene worked more and more with the various propositions
                            which this situation involved, he became more and more at his ease.
                            Those who have ever held an executive position of any importance know
                            how easy it is, given a certain degree of talent, to attract men and
                            women of ability and force according to that talent. Like seeks like and
                            those who are looking for advancement in their world according to their
                            talents naturally drift to those who are more highly placed and who are
                            much like themselves. Advertising men, artists, circulation men,
                            editors, book critics, authors and all those who were sufficiently in
                            his vein to understand or appreciate him sought him out, and by degrees
                            he was compelled to learn to refer all applicants to the heads of
                            departments. He was compelled to learn to rely to a certain degree on
                            his men, and having learned this he was inclined to go to the other
                            extreme and rely too much. In the case of Carter Hayes, in the
                            advertising department, he was particularly impressed with the
                            man's efficiency, and rested on him heavily for all the details
                            of that work, merely inspecting his programs of procedure and advising
                            him in difficult situations. The latter appreciated this, for he was
                            egotistic to the roots, but it did not develop a sense of loyalty in
                            him. He saw in Eugene a man who had risen by some fluke of fortune, and
                            who was really not an advertising man at heart. He hoped some day that
                            circumstances would bring it about that he could be advertising manager
                            in fact, dealing directly with Colfax and White, whom, because of their
                            greater financial interest in the business, he considered
                            Eugene's superiors, and whom he proposed to court. There were
                            others in the other departments who felt the same way.
                        The one great difficulty with Eugene was that he had no great power of
                            commanding the loyalty of his assistants. He had the power of inspiring
                            themof giving them ideas which would be helpful to themselvesbut these
                            they used, as a rule, merely to further their own interests, to cause
                            them to advance to a point where they deemed themselves beyond him.
                            Because in his manner he was not hard, distant, bitter, he was
                            considered, as a rule, rather easy. The men whom he employed, and he had
                            talent for picking men of very exceptional ability, sometimes  much greater than his own in their
                            particular specialties, looked upon him not so much as a superior after
                            a time, as someone who was in their path and to whose shoes they might
                            properly aspire. He seemed so good natured about the whole workso easy
                            going. Now and then he took the trouble to tell a man that he was
                            getting too officious, but in the main he did not care much. Things were
                            going smoothly, the magazines were improving, the advertising and
                            circulation departments were showing marked gains, and altogether his
                            life seemed to have blossomed out into comparative perfection. There
                            were storms and daily difficulties, but they were not serious. Colfax
                            advised with him genially when he was in doubt, and White pretended a
                            friendship which he did not feel.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XLIII
                        THE trouble with this situation was that it involved more power, comfort,
                            ease and luxury than Eugene had ever experienced before, and made him a
                            sort of oriental potentate not only among his large company of
                            assistants but in his own home. Angela, who had been watching his career
                            all these years with curiosity, began to conceive of him at last as a
                            genius in every respectdestined to some great pre-eminence, in art or
                            finance or the publishing world or all three. She did not relax her
                            attitude in regard to his conduct, being more convinced than ever that
                            to achieve the dizzy eminence to which he was now so rapidly ascending,
                            he must be more circumspect than ever. People were watching him so
                            closely now. They were so obsequious to him, but still so dangerous. A
                            man in his position must be so careful how he dressed, talked,
                            walked.
                        "Don't make so much fuss," he used to say to
                            her. "For heaven's sake, let me alone!" This
                            merely produced more quarrels, for Angela was determined to regulate him
                            in spite of his wishes and in his best interests.
                        Grave men and women in various walks of lifeart, literature,
                            philanthropy, trade, began to seek him out, because in the first place
                            he had an understanding mind and because in the next place, which was
                            much more important, he had something to give. There are always those in
                            all walks of life who are seeking something through those avenues which
                            a successful person represents, whatever they may be, and these together
                            with those others who are always intensely eager to bask in the
                            reflected glory of a rising luminary, make a retinue for every
                            successful man. Eugene had his retinue, men and women of his own station
                            or beneath it, who would eagerly shake his hand with an "Oh,
                            yes, indeed. Managing Publisher of the United Magazines Corporation! Oh,
                            yes, yes!" Women particularly were prone to smile, showing him
                            even white teeth and regretting that all good looking and successful men
                            were married.
                        In July following his coming from Philadelphia the United Magazines
                            Corporation moved into its new building, and then he was installed into
                            the most imposing office of his career. A subtle assistant, wishing to
                            ingratiate the staff in Eugene's good graces, suggested that a
                            collection be taken up for flowers.  His
                            room, which was done in white, blue and gold with rose wood furniture,
                            to set it apart from the prevailing decorative scheme and so make it
                            more impressive, was scattered with great bouquets of roses, sweet peas
                            and pinks, in beautiful and ornate vases of different colors, countries
                            and schools. His great rosewood flat-topped desk, covered with a thick,
                            plate glass through which the polished wood shone brightly, was
                            decorated with flowers. On the morning of his entry he held an impromptu
                            reception, on which occasion he was visited by Colfax and White, who
                            after going to look at their new rooms, came to his. A general reception
                            which followed some three weeks later, and in which the successful
                            representatives of various walks of life in the metropolis took part,
                            drew to the building a great crowd, artists, writers, editors,
                            publishers, authors and advertiseing men who saw him in all his glory.
                            On this occasion, Eugene, with White and Colfax did the receiving. He
                            was admired at a distance by striplings who wondered how he had ever
                            accomplished such great results. His rise had been so meteoric. It
                            seemed so impossible that a man who had started as an artist should
                            change and become a dominant factor in literature and art from a
                            publishing point of view.
                        In his own home his surroundings were equally showy; he was as much a
                            figure as he was in his office. When he was alone with Angela, which was
                            not so often, for naturally they did a great deal of entertaining, he
                            was a figure even to her. Long ago she had come to think of him as
                            someone who would some day dominate in the art world; but to see him an
                            imposing factor in the city's commercial life, its principal
                            publishers' representative, having a valet and an automobile,
                            riding freely in cabs, lunching at the most exclusive restaurants and
                            clubs, and associating constantly with someone who was of importance,
                            was a different matter.
                        She was no longer so sure of herself with him, not so certain of her
                            power to control him. They quarreled over little things, but she was not
                            so ready to begin these quarrels. He seemed changed now and deeper
                            still. She was afraid, even yet, that he might make a mistake and lose
                            it all, that the forces of ill will, envy and jealousy which were
                            everywhere apparent in life, and which blow about so easily like gusts
                            of wind, would work him harm. Eugene was apparently at ease, though he
                            was troubled at times for his own safety, when he thought of it, for he
                            had no stock in the company, and was as beholden to Colfax as any hall
                            boy, but he did not see how he could easily be dispensed with. He was
                                making good.
                        
                        
                        Colfax was friendly to him. He was surprised at times to see how badly
                            the manufacturing arrangements could go awry, affecting his dates of
                            issue, but White invariably had a good excuse. Colfax took him to his
                            house in the country, his lodge in the mountains, on short yachting and
                            fishing trips, for he liked to talk to him, but he rarely if ever
                            invited Angela. He did not seem to think it was necessary to do this,
                            and Eugene was afraid to impress the slight upon his attention, much as
                            he dreaded the thoughts which Angela must be thinking. It was Eugene
                            here and Eugene there, with constant calls of "where are you,
                            old man?" from Colfax, who appeared not to want to be away from
                            him.
                        "Well, old man," he would say, looking him over much as
                            one might a blood horse or a pedigree dog, "you're
                            getting on. This new job agrees with you. You didn't look like
                            that when you came to me," and he would feel the latest suit
                            Eugene might be wearing, or comment on some pin or tie he had on, or
                            tell him that his shoes were not as good as he could really get, if he
                            wanted to be perfect in dress. Colfax was for grooming his new prize
                            much as one might groom a blood horse, and he was always telling Eugene
                            little details of social life, the right things to do, the right places
                            to be seen, the right places to go, as though Eugene knew little or
                            nothing.
                        "Now when we go down to Mrs. Savage's Friday afternoon,
                            you get a Truxton Portmanteau. Have you seen them? Well,
                            there's the thing. Got a London coat? Well, you ought to have
                            one. Those servants down there go through your things and they size you
                            up accordingly. Nothing less than two dollars each goes, and five
                            dollars to the butler, remember that."
                        He assumed and insisted after a fashion which Eugene resented quite as
                            much as he did his persistent ignoring of Angela, but he did not dare
                            comment on it. He could see that Colfax was variable, that he could hate
                            as well as love, and that he rarely took any intermediate ground. Eugene
                            was his favorite now.
                        "I'll send my car around for you at two
                            Friday," he would say, as though Eugene did not keep a car,
                            when he was planning one of his week-end excursions. "You be
                            ready."
                        At two, on that day, Colfax's big blue touring car would come
                            speeding up to the entrance of the apartment house and Eugene's
                            valet would carry down his bags, golf sticks, tennis racket and the
                            various paraphernalia that go with a week-end's entertainment,
                            and off the car would roll. At times Angela would be left behind, at
                            times taken, when Eugene could arrange it;  but he found that he had to be tactful and accede to
                            Colfax's indifference mostly. Eugene would always explain to
                            her how it was. He was sorry for her in a way, and yet he felt there was
                            some justice in the distinction. She was not exactly suited to that
                            topmost world in which he was now beginning to move. These people were
                            colder, sharper, shrewder, than Angela. They had more of that intense
                            sophistication of manner and experience than she could achieve. As a
                            matter of fact, Angela had as much grace and more than many of the four
                            hundred, but she did lack that quickness of wit or that shallow
                            self-sufficiency and assurance which are the almost invariable traits of
                            those who shine as members of the smart set. Eugene was able to assume
                            this manner whether he felt it or not.
                        "Oh, that's all right," she would say,
                            "as long as you're doing it for business
                            reasons."
                        She resented it nevertheless, bitterly, for it seemed such an uncalled
                            for slur. Colfax had no compunctions in adjusting his companionship to
                            suit his moods. He thought Eugene was well suited to this high life. He
                            thought Angela was not. He made the distinction roughly and went his
                            way.
                        It was in this manner that Eugene learned a curious fact about the social
                            world, and that was that frequently in these highest circles a man would
                            be received where his wife would not and vice versa, and that nothing
                            very much was thought of it, if it could be managed.
                        "Oh, is that Birkwood," he heard a young swell once
                            remark, concerning an individual in Philadelphia. "Why do they
                            let him in? His wife is charming, but he won't do,"
                            and once in New York he heard a daughter ask her mother, of a certain
                            wife who was announcedher husband being at the same table"who
                            invited her?"
                        "I'm sure I don't know," replied her
                            mother; "I didn't. She must have come of her own
                            accord."
                        "She certainly has her nerve with her," replied the
                            daughterand when the wife entered Eugene could see why. She was not good
                            looking and not harmoniously and tastefully dressed. It gave Eugene a
                            shock, but in a way he could understand. There were no such grounds of
                            complaint against Angela. She was attractive and shapely. Her one
                            weakness was that she lacked the blas social air. It was too bad, he
                            thought.
                        In his own home and circle, however, he thought to make up for this by a
                            series of entertainments which grew more and more elaborate as time went
                            on. At first when he came back from Philadelphia it consisted of a few
                            people in to dinner,  old friends, for he
                            was not quite sure of himself and did not know how many would come to
                            share his new honors with him. Eugene had never got over his love for
                            those he had known in his youth. He was not snobbish. It was true that
                            now he was taking naturally to prosperous people, but the little ones,
                            the old-time ones, he liked for old lang syne's sake as well as
                            for themselves. Many came to borrow money, for he had associated with
                            many ne'er do wells in his time, but many more were attracted
                            by his fame.
                        Eugene knew intimately and pleasantly most of the artistic and
                            intellectual figures of his day. In his home and at his table there
                            appeared artists, publishers, grand opera stars, actors and playwrights.
                            His large salary, for one thing, his beautiful apartment and its
                            location, his magnificent office and his friendly manner all conspired
                            to assist him. It was his self-conscious boast that he had not changed.
                            He liked nice people, simple people, natural people he said, for these
                            were the really great ones, but he could not see how far he had come in
                            class selection. Now he naturally gravitated to the wealthy, the
                            reputed, the beautiful, the strong and able, for no others interested
                            him. He hardly saw them. If he did it was to pity or give alms.
                        It is difficult to indicate to those who have never come out of poverty
                            into luxury, or out of comparative uncouthness into refinement, the veil
                            or spell which the latter comes eventually to cast over the
                            inexperienced mind, coloring the world anew. Life is apparently
                            striving, constantly, to perfect its illusions and to create spells.
                            There are, as a matter of fact, nothing but these outside that ultimate
                            substance or principle which underlies it all. To those who have come
                            out of inharmony, harmony is a spell, and to those who have come out of
                            poverty, luxury is a dream of delight. Eugene, being primarily a lover
                            of beauty, keenly responsive to all those subtleties of perfection and
                            arrangement which ingenuity can devise, was taken vastly by the nature
                            of this greater world into which, step by step apparently, he was almost
                            insensibly passing. Each new fact which met his eye or soothed his
                            sensibilities was quickly adjusted to all that had gone before. It
                            seemed to him as though all his life he had naturally belonged to this
                            perfect world of which country houses, city mansions, city and country
                            clubs, expensive hotels and inns, cars, resorts, beautiful women,
                            affected manners, subtlety of appreciation and perfection of appointment
                            generally were the inherent concomitants. This was the true heaventhat
                            material and spiritual perfection on earth, of which the world was
                            dreaming and to which, out of toil, disorder, shabby  ideas, mixed opinions, non-understanding
                            and all the ill to which the flesh is heir, it was constantly
                            aspiring.
                        Here was no sickness, no weariness apparently, no ill health or untoward
                            circumstances. All the troubles, disorders and imperfections of
                            existence were here carefully swept aside and one saw only the niceness,
                            the health and strength of being. He was more and more impressed as he
                            came farther and farther along in the scale of comfort, with the force
                            and eagerness with which life seems to minister to the luxury-love of
                            the human mind. He learned of so many, to him, lovely things, large,
                            wellkept, magnificent country places, scenes of exquisite beauty where
                            country clubs, hotels, seaside resorts of all descriptions had been
                            placed. He found sport, amusement, exercise, to be tremendously well
                            organized and that there were thousands of people who were practically
                            devoting their lives to this. Such a state of social ease was not for
                            him yet, but he could sit at the pleasures, so amply spread, between his
                            hours of work and dream of the time to come when possibly he might do
                            nothing at all. Yachting, motoring, golfing, fishing, hunting, riding,
                            playing tennis and polo, there were experts in all these fields he
                            found. Card playing, dancing, dining, lounging, these seemed to occupy
                            many people's days constantly. He could only look in upon it
                            all as upon a passing show, but that was better than nothing. It was
                            more than he had ever done before. He was beginning to see clearly how
                            the world was organized, how far were its reaches of wealth, its depths
                            of poverty. From the lowest beggar to the topmost scenewhat a
                            distance!
                        Angela scarcely kept pace with him in all these mental peregrinations. It
                            was true that now she went to the best dressmakers only, bought charming
                            hats, the most expensive shoes, rode in cabs and her husband's
                            auto, but she did not feel about it as he did. It seemed very much like
                            a dream to herlike something that had come so suddenly and so
                            exuberantly that it could not be permanent. There was running in her
                            mind all the time that Eugene was neither a publisher, nor an editor,
                            nor a financier at heart, but an artist and that an artist he would
                            remain. He might attain great fame and make much money out of his
                            adopted profession, but some day in all likelihood he would leave it and
                            return to art. He seemed to be making sound investmentsat least, they
                            seemed sound to her, and their stocks and bank accounts, principally
                            convertible stocks, seemed a safe enough margin for the future to
                            guarantee peace of mind, but they were not saving so much, after all. It
                            was costing them something over eight thousand dollars a year to live,
                            and their  expenses were constantly
                            growing larger rather than smaller. Eugene appeared to become more and
                            more extravagant.
                        "I think we are doing too much entertaining," Angela
                            had once protested, but he waived the complaint aside. "I
                            can't do what I'm doing and not entertain.
                            It's building me up. People in our position have to."
                            He threw open the doors finally to really remarkable crowds and most of
                            the cleverest people in all walks of lifethe really exceptionally
                            clevercame to eat his meals, to drink his wines, to envy his comfort and
                            wish they were in his shoes.
                        During all this time Eugene and Angela instead of growing closer
                            together, were really growing farther and farther apart. She had never
                            either forgotten or utterly forgiven that one terrific lapse, and she
                            had never believed that Eugene was utterly cured of his hedonistic
                            tendencies. Crowds of beautiful women came to Angela's teas,
                            lunches and their joint evening parties and receptions. Under
                            Eugene's direction they got together interesting programmes,
                            for it was no trouble now for him to command musical, theatrical,
                            literary and artistic talent. He knew men and women who could make rapid
                            charcoal or crayon sketches of people, could do feats in legerdemain,
                            and character representation, could sing, dance, play, recite and tell
                            humorous stories in a droll and off-hand way. He insisted that only
                            exceptionally beautiful women be invited, for he did not care to look at
                            the homely ones, and curiously he found dozens, who were not only
                            extremely beautiful, but singers, dancers, composers, authors, actors
                            and playwright in the bargain. Nearly all of them were brilliant
                            conversationalists and they helped to entertain themselvesmade their own
                            entertainment, in fact. His table very frequently was a glittering
                            spectacle. One of his "Stunts" as he called it was to
                            bundle fifteen or twenty people into three or four automobiles after
                            they had lingered in his rooms until three o'clock in the
                            morning and motor out to some out-of-town inn for breakfast and
                            "to see the sun rise." A small matter like a bill for
                            $75.00 for auto hire or thirty-five dollars for a crowd for breakfast
                            did not trouble him. It was a glorious sensation to draw forth his purse
                            and remove four or five or six yellow backed ten dollar bills, knowing
                            that it made little real difference. More money was coming to him from
                            the same source. He could send down to the cashier at any time and draw
                            from five hundred to a thousand dollars. He always had from one hundred
                            and fifty to three hundred dollars in his purse in denominations of
                            five, ten and twenty dollar bills. He carried a small check book and
                            most frequently paid by check. He  liked
                            to assume that he was known and frequently imposed this assumption on
                            others.
                        "Eugene Witla! Eugene Witla! George! he's a nice
                            fellow,"or "it's remarkable how he has come
                            up, isn't it?" "I was at the Witlas'
                            the other night. Did you ever see such a beautiful apartment?
                            It's perfect! That view!"
                        People commented on the interesting people he entertained, the clever
                            people you met there, the beautiful women, the beautiful view.
                            "And Mrs. Witla is so charming."
                        But down at the bottom of all this talk there was also much envy and
                            disparagement and never much enthusiasm for the personality of Mrs.
                            Witla. She was not as brilliant as Eugeneor rather the comment was
                            divided. Those who liked clever people, show, wit, brilliance, ease,
                            liked Eugene and not Angela quite so much. Those who liked sedateness,
                            solidity, sincerity, the commoner virtues of faithfulness and effort,
                            admired Angela. All saw that she was a faithful handmaiden to her
                            husband, that she adored the ground he walked on.
                        "Such a nice little womanso homelike. It's curious that
                            he should have married her, though, isn't it? They are so
                            different. And yet they appear to have lots of things in common, too.
                            It's strangeisn't it?"
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XLIV
                        IT was in the course of his final upward progress that Eugene came once
                            more into contact with Kenyon C. Winfield, Ex-State Senator of New York,
                            President of the Long Island Realty Company, land developer, real estate
                            plunger, financier, artist, what nota man very much of Eugene's
                            own type and temperament, who at this time was doing rather remarkable
                            things in a land speculative way. Winfield was tall and thin, black
                            haired, black eyed, slightly but not offensively hook nosed, dignified,
                            gracious, intellectual, magnetic, optimistic. He was forty-eight years
                            of age. Winfield was a very fair sample of your man of the world who has
                            ideas, dreams, fancies, executive ability, a certain amount of reserve
                            and judgment, sufficient to hold his own in this very complicated mortal
                            struggle. He was not really a great man, but he was so near it that he
                            gave the impression to many of being so. His deep sunken black eyes
                            burned with a peculiar lustre, one might almost have fancied a tint of
                            red in them. His pale, slightly sunken face had some of the
                            characteristics of your polished Mephisto, though not too many. He was
                            not at all devilish looking in the true sense of the word, but keen,
                            subtle, artistic. His method was to ingratiate himself with men who had
                            money in order to get from them the vast sums which he found it
                            necessary to borrow to carry out the schemes or rather dreams he was
                            constantly generating. His fancies were always too big for his purse,
                            but he had such lovely fancies that it was a joy to work with them and
                            him.
                        Primarily Winfield was a real estate speculator, secondarily he was a
                            dreamer of dreams and seer of visions. His visions consisted of lovely
                            country areas near some city stocked with charming country houses, cut
                            up with well paved, tree shaded roads, provided with sewers, gas,
                            electricity, suitable railway service, street cars and all the comforts
                            of a well organized living district which should be at once retired,
                            exclusive, pleasing, conservative and yet bound up tightly with the
                            great Metropolitan heart of New York which he so greatly admired.
                            Winfield had been born and raised in Brooklyn. He had been a politician,
                            orator, insurance dealer, contractor, and so on. He had succeeded in
                            organizing various suburban estatesWinfield, Sunnyside, Ruritania, The
                            Beecheslittle forty, fifty, one hundred and  two hundred acre flats which with the help of "O. P.
                            M." as he always called other people's money he had
                            divided off into blocks, laying out charmingly with trees and sometimes
                            a strip of green grass running down the centre, concrete sidewalks, a
                            set of noble restrictions, and so forth. Anyone who ever came to look at
                            a lot in one of Winfield's perfect suburbs always found the
                            choicest piece of property in the centre of this latest burst of
                            improvement set aside for the magnificent house which Mr. Kenyon C.
                            Winfield, the president of the company, was to build and live in.
                            Needless to say they were never built. He had been round the world and
                            seen a great many things and places, but Winfield or Sunnyside or
                            Ruritania or The Beeches, so the lot buyers in these places were told,
                            had been finally selected by him deliberately as the one spot in all the
                            world in which he hoped to spend the remainder of his days.
                        At the time Eugene met him, he was planning Minetta Water on the shores
                            of Gravesend Bay, which was the most ambitious of all his projects so
                            far. He was being followed financially, by a certain number of Brooklyn
                            politicians and financiers who had seen him succeed in small things,
                            taking a profit of from three to four hundred per cent. out of ten,
                            twenty and thirty acre flats, but for all his brilliance it had been
                            slow work. He was now worth between three and four hundred thousand
                            dollars and, for the first time in his life, was beginning to feel that
                            freedom in financial matters which made him think that he could do
                            almost anything. He had met all sorts of people, lawyers, bankers,
                            doctors, merchants, the "easy classes" he called them,
                            all with a little money to invest, and he had succeeded in luring
                            hundreds of worth-while people into his projects. His great dreams had
                            never really been realized, however, for he saw visions of a great
                            warehouse and shipping system to be established on Jamaica Bay, out of
                            which he was to make millions, if it ever came to pass, and also a
                            magnificent summer resort of some kind, somewhere, which was not yet
                            clearly evolved in his mind. His ads were scattered freely through the
                            newspapers: his signs, or rather the signs of his towns, scattered
                            broadcast over Long Island.
                        Eugene had met him first when he was working with the Summerfield
                            Company, but he met him this time quite anew at the home of the W. W.
                            Willebrand on the North Shore of Long Island near Hempstead. He had gone
                            down there one Saturday afternoon at the invitation of Mrs. Willebrand,
                            whom he had met at another house party and with whom he had danced. She
                            had been pleased with his gay, vivacious manner and had asked  him if he wouldn't come.
                            Winfield was here as a guest with his automobile.
                        "Oh, yes," said Winfield pleasantly. "I recall
                            you very well. You are now with the United Magazines Corporation,I
                            understandsomeone was telling mea most prosperous company, I believe. I
                            know Mr. Colfax very well. I once spoke to Summerfield about you. A most
                            astonishing fellow, that, tremendously able. You were doing that series
                            of sugar plantation ads for them or having them done. I think I copied
                            the spirit of those things in advertising Ruritania, as you may have
                            noticed. Well, you certainly have improved your condition since then. I
                            once tried to tell Summerfield that he had an exceptional man in you,
                            but he would have nothing of it. He's too much of an egoist. He
                            doesn't know how to work with a man on equal
                            terms."
                        Eugene smiled at the thought of Summerfield.
                        "An able man," he said simply. "He did a great
                            deal for me."
                        Winfield liked that. He thought Eugene would criticize him. He liked
                            Eugene's genial manner and intelligent, expressive face. It
                            occurred to him that when next he wanted to advertise one of his big
                            development projects, he would go to Eugene or the man who had done the
                            sugar plantation series of pictures and get him to give him the right
                            idea for advertising.
                        Affinity is such a peculiar thing. It draws people so easily, apart from
                            volition or consciousness. In a few moments Eugene and Winfield, sitting
                            side by side on the veranda, looking at the greenwood before them, the
                            long stretch of open sound, dotted with white sails and the dim, distant
                            shore of Connecticut, were talking of real estate ventures in general,
                            what land was worth, how speculations of this kind turned out, as a
                            rule. Winfield was anxious to take Eugene seriously, for he felt drawn
                            to him and Eugene studied Winfield's pale face, his thin,
                            immaculate hands, his suit of soft, gray cloth. He looked as able as his
                            public reputation made him out to bein fact, he looked better than
                            anything he had ever done. Eugene had seen Ruritania and The Beeches.
                            They did not impress him vastly as territorial improvements, but they
                            were pretty, nevertheless. For middleclass people, they were quite the
                            thing he thought.
                        "I should think it would be a pleasure to you to scheme out a
                            new section," he said to him once. "The idea of a
                            virgin piece of land to be converted into streets and houses or a
                            village appeals to me immensely. The idea of laying it out and sketching
                            houses to fit certain positions, suits my temperament exactly. I wish
                            sometimes I had been born an architect."
                        
                        "It is pleasant and if that were all it would be
                            ideal," returned Winfield. "The thing is more a matter
                            of financing than anything else. You have to raise money for land and
                            improvements. If you make exceptional improvements they are expensive.
                            You really can't expect to get much, if any, of your money
                            back, until all your work is done. Then you have to wait. If you put up
                            houses you can't rent them, for the moment you rent them, you
                            can't sell them as new. When you make your improvements your
                            taxes go up immediately. If you sell a piece of property to a man or
                            woman who isn't exactly in accord with your scheme, he or she
                            may put up a house which destroys the value of a whole neighborhood for
                            you. You can't fix the details of a design in a contract too
                            closely. You can only specify the minimum price the house is to cost and
                            the nature of the materials to be used. Some people's idea of
                            beauty will vary vastly from others. Taste in sections may change. A
                            whole city like New York may suddenly decide that it wants to build west
                            when you are figuring on its building east. Sowell, all these things
                            have to be taken into consideration."
                        "That sounds logical enough," said Eugene,
                            "but wouldn't the right sort of a scheme just
                            naturally draw to itself the right sort of people, if it were presented
                            in the right way? Don't you fix the conditions by your own
                            attitude?"
                        "You do, you do," replied Winfield, easily.
                            "If you give the matter sufficient care and attention it can be
                            done. The pity is you can be too fine at times. I have seen attempts at
                            perfection come to nothing. People with taste and tradition and money
                            behind them are not moving into new additions and suburbs, as a rule.
                            You are dealing with the new rich and financial beginners. Most people
                            strain their resources to the breaking point to better their living
                            conditions and they don't always know. If they have the money,
                            it doesn't always follow that they have the taste to grasp what
                            you are striving for, and if they have the taste they haven't
                            the money. They would do better if they could, but they can't.
                            A man in my position is like an artist and a teacher and a father
                            confessor and financier and everything all rolled into one. When you
                            start to be a real estate developer on a big scale you must be these
                            things. I have had some successes and some notable failures. Winfield is
                            one of the worst. It's disgusting to me now."
                        "I have always wished I could lay out a seaside resort or a
                            suburb," said Eugene dreamily. "I've never
                            been to but one or two of the resorts abroad, but it strikes me that
                            none of the resorts herecertainly none near New Yorkare right. The
                            opportunities  are so wonderful. The
                            things that have been done are horrible. There is no plan, no detail
                            anywhere."
                        "My views exactly," said Winfield.
                            "I've been thinking of it for years. Some such place
                            could be built, and I suppose if it were done right it would be
                            successful. It would be expensive, though, very, and those who come in
                            would have a long wait for their money."
                        "It would be a great opportunity to do something really worth
                            while, though," said Eugene. "No one seems to realize
                            how beautiful a thing like that could be made."
                        Winfield said nothing, but the thought stuck in his mind. He was dreaming
                            a seaside improvement which should be the most perfect place of its kind
                            in the worlda monument to himself if he did it. If Eugene had this idea
                            of beauty he might help. At least he might talk to him about it when the
                            time came. Perhaps Eugene might have a little money to invest. It would
                            take millions to put such a scheme through, but every little would help.
                            Besides Eugene might have ideas which should make money both for himself
                            and for Winfield. It was worth thinking about. So they parted, not to
                            meet again for weeks and months, but they did not forget each other.
                    
                
                
                
                    BOOK III REVOLT
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER I
                        IT was when Eugene was at the height of his success that a meeting took
                            place between himself and a certain Mrs. Emily Dale.
                        Mrs. Dale was a strikingly beautiful and intelligent widow of
                            thirty-eight, the daughter of a well-to-do and somewhat famous New York
                            family of Dutch extractionthe widow of an eminent banker of considerable
                            wealth who had been killed in an automobile accident near Paris some
                            years before. She was the mother of four children, Suzanne, eighteen;
                            Kinroy, fifteen; Adele, twelve, and Ninette, nine, but the size of her
                            family had in no way affected the subtlety of her social personality and
                            the delicacy of her charm and manner. She was tall, graceful, willowy,
                            with a wealth of dark hair, which was used in the most subtle manner to
                            enhance the beauty of her face. She was calm, placid apparently, while
                            really running deep with emotion and fancies, with manners which were
                            the perfection of kindly courtesy and good breeding and with those airs
                            of superiority which come so naturally to those who are raised in a
                            fortunate and exclusive atmosphere.
                        She did not consider herself passionate in a marked degree, but freely
                            admitted to herself that she was vain and coquettish. She was keen and
                            observing, with a single eye to the main chance socially, but with a
                            genuine love for literature and art and a propensity to write. Eugene
                            met her through Colfax, who introduced him to her. He learned from the
                            latter that she was rather unfortunate in her marriage except from a
                            money point of view, and that her husband's death was no
                            irreparable loss. He also learned from the same source that she was a
                            good mother, trying to bring up her children in the manner most suitable
                            to their station and opportunities. Her husband had been of a much
                            poorer social origin than herself, but her own standing was of the very
                            best. She was a gay social figure, being invited much, entertaining
                            freely, preferring the company of younger men to those of her own age or
                            older and being followed ardently by one fortune hunter and another, who
                            saw in her beauty, wealth and station, an easy door to the heaven of
                            social supremacy.
                        The Dale home, or homes rather, were in several different placesone at
                            Morristown, New Jersey, another on fashionable  Grimes Hill on Staten Island, a thirda city residence,
                            which at the time Eugene met them, was leased for a term of yearswas in
                            Sixty-seventh Street, near Fifth Avenue in New York City, and a fourth,
                            a small lodge, at Lenox, Massachusetts, which was also rented. Shortly
                            after he met her the house at Morristown was closed and the lodge at
                            Lenox re-occupied.
                        For the most part Mrs. Dale preferred to dwell in her ancestral home on
                            Staten Island, which, because of its commanding position on what was
                            known as Grimes Hill, controlled a magnificent view of the bay and
                            harbor of New York. Manhattan, its lower wall of buildings, lay like a
                            cloud at the north. The rocking floor of the sea, blue and gray and
                            slate black by turn, spread to the east. In the west were visible the
                            Kill von Kull with its mass of shipping and the Orange Hills. In a boat
                            club at Tompkinsville she had her motor boat, used mostly by her boy; in
                            her garage at Grimes Hill, several automobiles. She owned several riding
                            horses, retained four family servants permanently and in other ways
                            possessed all those niceties of appointment which make up the
                            comfortable life of wealth and ease.
                        The two youngest of her girls were in a fashionable boarding school at
                            Tarrytown; the boy, Kinroy, was preparing for Harvard; Suzanne, the
                            eldest, was at home, fresh from boarding school experiences, beginning
                            to go out socially. Her dbut had already been made. Suzanne was a
                            peculiar girl, plump, beautiful, moody, with, at times, a dreamy air of
                            indifference and a smile that ran like a breath of air over water. Her
                            eyes were large, of a vague blue-gray, her lips rosy and arched; her
                            cheeks full and pink. She had a crown of light chestnut hair, a body at
                            once innocent and voluptuous in its outlines. When she laughed it was a
                            rippling gurgle, and her sense of humor was perfect, if not exaggerated.
                            One of those naturally wise but as yet vague and formless artistic
                            types, which suspect without education, nearly all the subtleties of the
                            world, and burst forth full winged and beautiful, but oh, so fragile,
                            like a butterfly from its chrysalis, the radiance of morning upon its
                            body. Eugene did not see her for a long time after he met Mrs. Dale, but
                            when he did, he was greatly impressed with her beauty.
                        Life sometimes builds an enigma out of common clay, and with a look from
                            a twelve-year-old girl, sets a Dante singing. It can make a god of a
                            bull, a divinity of an ibis, or a beetle, set up a golden calf to be
                            worshipped of the multitude. Paradox! Paradox! In this case an immature
                            and yet nearly perfect body held a seemingly poetic and yet utterly
                            nebulous appreciation  of lifea body so
                            youthful, a soul so fumbling that one would ask, How should tragedy lurk
                            in form like this?
                        A fool?
                        Not quite, yet so nebulous, so much a dreamer that difficulty might
                            readily follow in the wake of any thoughtless deed.
                        As a matter of fact, favored as she was by nature and fortune, her very
                            presence was dangerousprovocative, without thought of being so. If a
                            true artist had painted her, synthesizing her spirit with her body, he
                            might have done so showing her standing erect on a mountain top, her
                            limbs outlined amidst fluttering draperies against the wind, her eyes
                            fixed on distant heights, or a falling star. Out of mystery into mystery
                            again, so she came and went. Her mind was not unlike a cloud of mist
                            through which the morning sun is endeavoring to break, irradiating all
                            with its flushes of pink and gold. Again it was like those impearled
                            shells of the South Sea, without design yet suggestive of all
                            perfections and all beauties. Dreams! dreams!of clouds, sunsets, colors,
                            sounds which a too articulate world would do its best later to corrupt.
                            What Dante saw in Beatrice, what Ablard saw in Hlose, Romeo in Juliet,
                            so some wondering swain could have seen in herand suffered a like
                            fate.
                        Eugene encountered Mrs. Dale at a house party on Long Island one Saturday
                            afternoon, and their friendship began at once. She was introduced to him
                            by Colfax, and because of the latter's brusque, jesting spirit
                            was under no illusions as to his social state.
                        "You needn't look at him closely," he observed
                            gaily, "he's married."
                        "That simply makes him all the more interesting," she
                            rippled, and extended her hand.
                        Eugene took it. "I'm glad a poor married man can find
                            shelter somewhere," he said, smartly.
                        "You should rejoice," she replied.
                            "It's at once your liberty and your protection. Think
                            how safe you are!"
                        "I know, I know," he said. "All the slings and
                            arrows of Miss Fortune hurtling by."
                        "And you in no danger of being hurt."
                        He offered her his arm, and they strolled through a window onto a
                            veranda.
                        The day was just the least bit dull for Mrs. Dale. Bridge was in progress
                            in the card room, a company of women and girls gambling feverishly.
                            Eugene was not good at bridge, not quick enough mentally, and Mrs. Dale
                            did not care much for it.
                        "I have been trying to stir up enough interest to bring to  pass a motor ride, but it
                            doesn't work," she said. "They all have the
                            gambling fever today. Are you as greedy as the others?"
                        "I'm greedy I assure you, but I can't play.
                            The greediest thing I can do is to stay away from the tables. I save
                            most. That sharp Faraday has cleaned me and two others out of four
                            hundred dollars. It's astonishing the way some people can play.
                            They just look at the cards or make mystic signs and the wretched things
                            range themselves in serried ranks to suit them. It's a crime.
                            It ought to be a penitentiary offense, particularly to beat me.
                            I'm such an inoffensive specimen of the non-bridge playing
                            family."
                        "A burnt child, you know. Stay away. Let's sit here.
                            They can't come out here and rob you."
                        They sat down in green willow chairs, and after a time a servant offered
                            them coffee. Mrs. Dale accepted. They drifted conversationally from
                            bridge to characters in societya certain climber by the name of Bristow,
                            a man who had made a fortune in trunksand from him to travel and from
                            travel to Mrs. Dale's experiences with fortune hunters. The
                            automobile materialized through the intervention of others, but Eugene
                            found great satisfaction in this woman's company and sat beside
                            her. They talked books, art, magazines, the making of fortunes and
                            reputations. Because he was or seemed to be in a position to assist her
                            in a literary way she was particularly nice to him. When he was leaving
                            she asked, "Where are you in New York?"
                        "Riverside Drive is our present abode," he said.
                        "Why don't you bring Mrs. Witla and come down to see us
                            some week-end? I usually have a few people there, and the house is
                            roomy. I'll name you a special day if you wish."
                        "Do. We'll be delighted. Mrs. Witla will enjoy it,
                            I'm sure."
                        Mrs. Dale wrote to Angela ten days later as to a particular date, and in
                            this way the social intimacy began.
                        It was never of a very definite character, though. When Mrs. Dale met
                            Angela she liked her quite well as an individual, whatever she may have
                            thought of her as a social figure. Neither Eugene nor Angela saw Suzanne
                            nor any of the other children on this occasion, all of them being away.
                            Eugene admired the view tremendously and hinted at being invited again.
                            Mrs. Dale was delighted. She liked him as a man entirely apart from his
                            position but particularly because of his publishing station. She was
                            ambitious to write. Others had told her that he was  the most conspicuous of the rising figures in the
                            publishing world. Being friendly with him would give her exceptional
                            standing with all his editors. She was only too pleased to be gracious
                            to him. He was invited again and a third time, with Angela, and it
                            seemed as though they were reaching, or might at least reach, something
                            much more definite than a mere social acquaintance.
                        It was about six months after Eugene had first met Mrs. Dale that Angela
                            gave a tea, and Eugene, in assisting her to prepare the list of
                            invitations, had suggested that those who were to serve the tea and
                            cakes should be two exceptionally pretty girls who were accustomed to
                            come to the Witla apartment, Florence Reel, the daughter of a well-known
                            author of that name and Marjorie Mac Tennan, the daughter of a
                            well-known editor, both beautiful and talented, one with singing and the
                            other with art ambitions. Angela had seen a picture of Suzanne Dale in
                            her mother's room at Daleview on Grimes Hill, and had been
                            particularly taken with her girlish charm and beauty.
                        "I wonder," she said, "if Mrs. Dale would
                            object to having Suzanne come and help serve that day. She would like
                            it, I'm sure, there are going to be so many clever people here.
                            We haven't seen her, but that doesn't matter. It would
                            be a nice way to introduce herself."
                        "That's a good idea, I should say," observed
                            Eugene judicially. He had seen the photo of Suzanne and liked it, though
                            he was not over-impressed. Photos to him were usually gross deceivers.
                            He accepted them always with reservations. Angela forthwith wrote to
                            Mrs. Dale, who agreed. She would be glad to come herself. She had seen
                            the Witla apartment, and had been very much pleased with it. The
                            reception day came and Angela begged Eugene to come home early.
                        "I know you don't like to be alone with a whole roomful
                            of people, but Mr. Goodrich is coming, and Frederick Allen (one of their
                            friends who had taken a fancy to Eugene), Arturo Scalchero is going to
                            sing and Bonavita to play." Scalchero was none other than
                            Arthur Skalger, of Port Jervis, New Jersey, but he assumed this
                            corruption of his name in Italy to help him to succeess. Bonavita was
                            truly a Spanish pianist of some repute who was flattered to be invited
                            to Eugene's home.
                        "Well, I don't care much about it," replied
                            Eugene. "But I will come."
                        He frequently felt that afternoon teas and receptions were ridiculous
                            affairs, and that he had far better be in his office attending  to his multitudinous duties. Still he did
                            leave early, and at five-thirty was ushered into a great roomful of
                            chattering, gesticulating, laughing people. A song by Florence Reel had
                            just been concluded. Like all girls of ambition, vivacity and
                            imagination, she took an interest in Eugene, for in his smiling face she
                            found a responsive gleam.
                        "Oh, Mr. Witla!" she exclaimed. "Now here you
                            are and you just missed my song. And I wanted you to hear it,
                            too."
                        "Don't grieve, Florrie," he said familiarly,
                            holding her hand and looking momentarily in her eyes.
                            "You're going to sing it again for me. I heard part of
                            it as I came up on the elevator." He relinquished her hand.
                            "Why, Mrs. Dale! Delighted, I'm sure. So nice of you.
                            And Arturo Scalcherohullo, Skalger, you old frost! Where'd you
                            get the Italian name? Bonavita! Fine! Am I going to hear you play? All
                            over? Alas! Marjorie Mac Tennan! Gee, but you look sweet! If Mrs. Witla
                            weren't watching me, I'd kiss you. Oh, the pretty
                            bonnet! And Frederick Allen! My word! What are you trying to grab off,
                            Allen? I'm on to you. No bluffs! Nix! Nix! Why, Mrs.
                            Schenckdelighted! Angela, why didn't you tell me Mrs. Schenck
                            was coming? I'd have been home at three."
                        By this time he had reached the east end of the great studio room,
                            farthest from the river. Here a tea table was spread with a silver tea
                            service, and behind it a girl, oval-faced, radiantly healthy, her full
                            lips parted in a ripe smile, her blue-gray eyes talking pleasure and
                            satisfaction, her forehead laid about by a silver filigree band, beneath
                            which her brown chestnut curls protruded. Her hands, Eugene noted, were
                            plump and fair. She stood erect, assured, with the least touch of
                            quizzical light in her eye. A white, pink-bordered dress draped her
                            girlish figure.
                        "I don't know," he said easily, "but
                            I wager a guess that this isthat this isthis is Suzanne
                            Dalewhat?"
                        "Yes, this is," she replied laughingly. "Can I
                            give you a cup of tea, Mr. Witla? I know you are Mr. Witla from
                            mama's description and the way in which you talk to
                            everybody."
                        "And how do I talk to everybody, may I ask,
                            pleasum?"
                        "Oh, I can't tell you so easily. I mean, I
                            can't find the words, you know. I know how it is, though.
                            Familiarly, I suppose I mean. Will you have one lump or
                            two?"
                        "Three an thou pleasest. Didn't your mother tell me you
                            sang or played?"
                        "Oh, you mustn't believe anything ma-ma' says
                            about me! She's apt to say anything. Tee! Hee! It makes me
                            laugh"  she pronounced it
                            laaf"to think of my playing. My teacher says he would like to
                            strike my knuckles. Oh, dear!" (She went into a gale of
                            giggles.) "And sing! Oh, dear, dear! That is too
                            good!"
                        Eugene watched her pretty face intently. Her mouth and nose and eyes
                            fascinated him. She was so sweet! He noted the configuration of her lips
                            and cheeks and chin. The nose was delicate, beautifully formed, fat, not
                            sensitive. The ears were small, the eyes large and wide set, the
                            forehead naturally high, but so concealed by curls that it seemed low.
                            She had a few freckles and a very small dimple in her chin.
                        "Now you mustn't laugh like that," he said
                            mock solemnly. "It's very serious business, this
                            laughing. In the first place, it's against the rules of this
                            apartment. No one is ever, ever, ever supposed to laugh here,
                            particularly young ladies who pour tea. Tea, Epictetus well says,
                            involves the most serious conceptions of one's privileges and
                            duties. It is the high-born prerogative of tea servers to grin
                            occasionally, but never, never, never under any circumstances
                            whatsoever" Suzanne's lips were beginning to part
                            ravishingly in anticipation of a burst of laughter.
                        "What's all the excitement about, Witla?"
                            asked Skalger, who had drifted to his side. "Why this sudden
                            cessation of progress?"
                        Tea, my son, tea!" said Eugene. "Have a cup with
                            me?"
                        "I will."
                        "He's trying to tell me, Mr. Skalger, that I should
                            never laaf. I must only grin." Her lips parted and she laughed
                            joyously. Eugene laughed with her. He could not help it.
                            "Ma-ma' says I giggle all the time. I
                            wouldn't do very well here, would I?"
                        She always pronounced it "ma-ma'."
                        She turned to Eugene again with big smiling eyes.
                        "Exceptions, exceptions. I might make exceptionsone exceptionbut
                            not more."
                        "Why one?" she asked archly.
                        "Oh, just to hear a natural laugh," he said a little
                            plaintively.
                        "Just to hear a real joyous laugh. Can you laugh
                            joyously?"
                        She giggled again at this, and he was about to tell her how joyously she
                            did laugh when Angela called him away to hear Florence Reel, who was
                            going to sing again for his especial benefit. He parted from Miss Dale
                            reluctantly, for she seemed some delicious figure as delicately colorful
                            as Royal Dresden, as perfect in her moods as a spring evening, as soft,
                            soulful, enticing as a strain of music heard through the night at a
                            distance or over the water. He went over to where Florence Reel was
                            standing,  listening in a sympathetic
                            melancholy vein to a delightful rendering of "The Summer Winds
                            Are Blowing, Blowing." All the while he could not help thinking
                            of Suzanneletting his eyes stray in that direction. He talked to Mrs.
                            Dale, to Henrietta Tenmon, to Luke Severas, Mr. and Mrs. Dula, Payalei
                            Stone, now a writer of special articles, and others, but he
                            couldn't help longing to go back to her. How sweet she was! How
                            very delightful! If he could only, once more in his life, have the love
                            of a girl like that!
                        The guests began to depart. Angela and Eugene bustled about the
                            farewells. Because of the duties of her daughter, which continued to the
                            end, Mrs. Dale stayed, talking to Arthur Skalger. Eugene was in and out
                            between the studio and cloak room off the entry way. Now and then he
                            caught glimpses of Suzanne demurely standing by her tea cups and
                            samovar. For years he had seen nothing so fresh and young as her body.
                            She was like a new grown wet white lily pod in the dawn of the year. She
                            seemed to have the texture of the water chestnut and the lush, fat
                            vegetables of the spring. Her eyes were as clear as water; her skin as
                            radiant new ivory. There was no sign of weariness about her, nor any
                            care, nor any thought of evil, nor anything except health and happiness.
                            "Such a face!" he thought casually in passing.
                            "She is as sweet as any girl could be. As radiant as light
                            itself."
                        Incidentally the personality of Frieda Roth came back, andlong before
                            herStella Appleton.
                        "Youth! Youth! What in this world could be finermore acceptable!
                            Where would you find its equal? After all the dust of the streets and
                            the spectacle of age and wearinessthe crow's feet about
                            people's eyes, the wrinkles in their necks, the make-believe of
                            rouge and massage, and powder and cosmetics, to see real youth, not of
                            the body but of the soul alsothe eyes, the smile, the voice, the
                            movementsall young. Why try to imitate that miracle? Who could? Who ever
                            had?"
                        He went on shaking hands, bowing, smiling, laughing, jesting, making
                            believe himself, but all the while the miracle of the youth and beauty
                            of Suzanne Dale was running in his mind.
                        "What are you thinking about, Eugene?" asked Angela,
                            coming to the window where he had drawn a rocking-chair and was sitting
                            gazing out on the silver and lavender and gray of the river surface in
                            the fading light. Some belated gulls were still flying about. Across the
                            river the great manufactory was sending off a spiral of black smoke from
                            one of its tall chimneys. Lamps were beginning to twinkle in its
                            hundred-windowed wall.
                        
                        A great siren cry broke from its whistle as six o'clock tolled
                            from a neighboring clock tower. It was still late February and cold.
                        "Oh, I was thinking of the beauty of this scene," he
                            said wearily.
                        Angela did not believe it. She was conscious of something, but they never
                            quarreled about what he was thinking nowadays. They had come too far
                            along in comfort and solidity. What was it, though, she wondered, that
                            he was thinking about?
                        Suzanne Dale had no particular thought of him. He was nicepleasant,
                            good-looking. Mrs. Witla was quite nice and young.
                        "Ma-ma," she said, "did you look out of the
                            window at Mr. Witla's?"
                        "Yes, my dear!"
                        "Wasn't that a beautiful view?"
                        "Charming."
                        "I should think you might like to live on the Drive sometime,
                            ma-ma."
                        "We may sometime."
                        Mrs. Dale fell to musing. Certainly Eugene was an attractive manyoung,
                            brilliant, able. What a mistake all the young men made, marrying so
                            early. Here he was successful, introduced to society, attractive, the
                            world really before him, and he was married to someone who, though a
                            charming little woman, was not up to his possibilities.
                        "Oh, well," she thought, "so goes the world.
                            Why worry? Everyone must do the best they can."
                        Then she thought of a story she might write along this line and get
                            Eugene to publish it in one of his magazines.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER II
                        WHILE these various events were occurring the work of the United
                            Magazines Corporation had proceeded apace. By the end of the first year
                            after Eugene's arrival it had cleared up so many of its
                            editorial and advertising troubles that he was no longer greatly worried
                            about them, and by the end of the second year it was well on the way
                            toward real success. Eugene had become so much of a figure about the
                            place that everyone in the great building, in which there were over a
                            thousand employed, knew him at sight. The attendants were most courteous
                            and obsequious, as much so almost as they were to Colfax and White,
                            though the latter with the improvement of the general condition of the
                            company had become more dominating and imposing than ever. White with
                            his large salary of twenty-five thousand a year and his title of
                            vice-president was most anxious that Eugene should not become more
                            powerful than he had already. It irritated him greatly to see the airs
                            Eugene gave himself, for the latter had little real tact, and instead of
                            dissembling his importance before his superiors was inclined to flaunt
                            it. He was forever retailing to Colfax some new achievement in the
                            advertising, circulation, and editorial fields, and that in
                            White's presence, for he did not take the latter very
                            seriously, telling of a new author of importance captured for the book
                            department; a new manuscript feature secured for one or another of the
                            magazines, a new circulation scheme or connection devised, or a new
                            advertising contract of great money value manipulated. His presence in
                            Colfax's office was almost invariably a signal for
                            congratulation or interest, for he was driving things hard and Colfax
                            knew it. White came to hate the sight of him.
                        "Well, what's the latest great thing you've
                            done?" Colfax said once to Eugene jovially in White's
                            presence, for he knew that Eugene was as fond of praise as a child and
                            so could be bantered with impunity. White concealed a desire to sneer
                            behind a deceptive smile.
                        "No latest great thing, only Hayes has turned that Hammond
                            Packing Company trick. That means eighteen thousand dollars'
                            worth more of new business for next year. That'll help a
                            little, won't it?"
                        "Hayes! Hayes! I'll be switched if I don't
                            think he comes prett near being a better advertising man than you are,
                            Witla
                        
                        You picked him, I'll have to admit that, but he certainly knows
                            all about the game. If anything ever happened to you, I think
                            I'd like to keep him right there." White pretended not
                            to hear this, but it pleased him. Hayes should be aided as much as
                            possible by him.
                        Eugene's face fell, for this sudden twisting of the thread of
                            interest from his to his assistant's achievements damped his
                            enthusiasm. It wasn't pleasant to have his inspirational
                            leadership questioned or made secondary to the work of those whom he was
                            managing. He had brought all these men here and keyed the situation up.
                            Was Colfax going to turn on him? "Oh, very well," he
                            said sweetly.
                        "Don't look so hurt," returned Colfax easily.
                            "I know what you're thinking. I'm not going
                            to turn on you. You hired this man. I'm simply telling you that
                            if anything should happen to you I'd like to keep him right
                            where he is."
                        Eugene thought this remark over seriously. It was tantamount to serving
                            notice on him that he could not discharge Hayes. Colfax did not actually
                            so mean it at the moment, though it was the seed of such a thought. He
                            simply left the situation open for consideration, and Eugene went away
                            thinking what an extremely unfavorable twist this gave to everything. If
                            he was to go on finding good men and bringing them in here but could not
                            discharge them, and if then, later, they became offensive to him, where
                            would he be? Why, if they found that out, as they might through White,
                            they could turn on him as lions on a tamer and tear him to pieces! This
                            was a bad and unexpected twist to things, and he did not like it.
                        On the other hand, while it had never occurred to Colfax before in this
                            particular connection, for he liked Eugene, it fitted in well with
                            certain warnings and suggestions which had been issuing from White who
                            was malevolently opposed to Eugene. His success in reorganizing the
                            place on the intellectual and artistic sides was too much.
                            Eugene's work was giving him a dignity and a security which was
                            entirely disproportionate to what he was actually doing and which was
                            threatening to overshadow and put in the limbo of indifference that of
                            every other person connected with the business. This must be broken.
                            Colfax, for the time being, was so wrapped up in what he considered
                            Eugene's shining intellectual and commercial qualities that he
                            was beginning to ignore White. The latter did not propose that any such
                            condition should continue. It was no doubt a rare thing to find a man
                            who could pick good men and make the place successful, but what of
                            himself? Colfax was naturally  very
                            jealous, he knew, and suspicious. He did not want to be overshadowed in
                            any way by any of his employees. He did not feel that he was, so far.
                            But now White thought it would be a fine thing to stir him up on this
                            score if he couldto arouse his jealousy. He knew that Colfax did not
                            care so much about the publishing world, though now that he was in it,
                            and was seeing that it could be made profitable, he was rather gratified
                            by the situation. His wife liked it, for people were always talking to
                            her about the United Magazines Corporation, its periodicals, its books,
                            its art products and that was flattering. While it might not be as
                            profitable as soap and woolens and railway stocks with which her husband
                            was identified, it was somewhat more distinguished. She wanted him to
                            keep it directly under his thumb and to shine by its reflected
                            light.
                        In looking about for a club wherewith to strike Eugene, White discovered
                            this. He sounded Colfax on various occasions by innuendo, and noted his
                            sniffing nostrils. If he could first reach Eugene's
                            advertising, circulation and editorial men and persuade them to look to
                            him instead of to Eugene, he might later reach and control Eugene
                            through Colfax. He might humble Eugene by curbing his power, making him
                            see that he, White, was still the power behind the throne.
                        "What do you think of this fellow Witla?" Colfax would
                            ask White from time to time, and when these occasions offered he was not
                            slow to drive in a wedge.
                        "He's an able fellow," he said once,
                            apparently most openmindedly. "It's plain that
                            he's doing pretty well with those departments, but I think you
                            want to look out for his vanity. He's just the least bit in
                            danger of getting a swelled head. You want to remember that
                            he's still pretty young for the job he holds (White was eight
                            years older). These literary and artistic people are all alike. The one
                            objection that I have to them is that they never seem to have any real
                            practical judgment. They make splendid second men when well governed,
                            and you can do almost anything with them, if you know how to handle
                            them, but you have to govern them. This fellow, as I see him, is just
                            the man you want. He's picking some good people and
                            he's getting some good results, but unless you watch him
                            he's apt to throw them all out of here sometime or go away and
                            take them all with him. I shouldn't let him do that if I were
                            you. I should let him get just the men you think are right, and then I
                            should insist that he keep them. Of course, a man has got to have
                            authority in his own department, but it can be carried too far.
                            You're treating him pretty liberally, you know."
                        
                        This sounded very sincere and logical to Colfax, who admired White for
                            it, for in spite of the fact that he liked Eugene greatly and went about
                            with him a great deal, he did not exactly trust him. The man was in a
                            way too brilliant, he thought. He was a little too airy and light on his
                            feet.
                        Under pretext of helping his work and directing his policy without
                            actually interfering so that it might eventually prove a failure, White
                            was constantly making suggestions. He made suggestions which he told
                            Colfax Eugene ought to try in the circulation department. He made
                            suggestions which he thought he might find advisable to try in the
                            advertising department. He had suggestions, gathered from Heaven knows
                            where, for the magazines and books, and these he invariably sent through
                            Colfax, taking good care, however, that the various department heads
                            knew from what source they had originally emanated. It was his plan to
                            speak to Hayes or Gillmore, who was in charge of circulation, or one of
                            the editors about some thought that was in his mind and then have that
                            same thought come as an order via Eugene. The latter was so anxious to
                            make good, so goodnatured in his interpretation of suggestions, that it
                            did not occur to him, for a long time, that he was being played. The men
                            under him, however, realized that something was happening, for White was
                            hand and glove with Colfax, and the two were not always in accord with
                            Eugene. He was not quite as powerful as White, was the first impression,
                            and later the idea got about that Eugene and White did not agree
                            temperamentally and that White was the stronger and would win.
                        It is not possible to go into the long, slow multitudinous incidents and
                            details which go to make up office politics, but anyone who has ever
                            worked in a large or small organization anywhere will understand. Eugene
                            was not a politician. He knew nothing of the delicate art of
                            misrepresentation as it was practised by White and those who were of his
                            peculiarly subtle mental tendencies. White did not like Eugene, and he
                            proposed to have his power curbed. Some of Eugene's editors,
                            after a time, began to find it difficult to get things as they wanted
                            them from the printing department, and, when they complained, it was
                            explained that they were of a disorderly and quarrelsome disposition.
                            Some of his advertising men made mistakes in statement or presentation,
                            and curiously these errors almost invariably came to light. Eugene found
                            that his strong men were most quickly relieved of their difficulties if
                            they approached White, but if they came to him it was not quite so easy.
                            Instead of ignoring these petty annoyances and going his way about the
                            big things, he stopped  occasionally to
                            fight these petty battles and complaints, and these simply put him in
                            the light of one who was not able to maintain profound peace and order
                            in his domain. White was always bland, helpful, ready with a suave
                            explanation.
                        "It's just possible that he may not know how to handle
                            these fellows, after all," he said to Colfax, and then if
                            anyone was discharged it was a sign of an unstable policy.
                        Colfax cautioned Eugene occasionally in accordance with White's
                            suggestions, but Eugene was now so well aware of what was going on that
                            he could see where they came from. He thought once of accusing White
                            openly in front of Colfax, but he knew that this would not be of any
                            advantage for he had no real evidence to go on. All White's
                            protestations to Colfax were to the effect that he was trying to help
                            him. So the battle lay.
                        In the meantime, Eugene, because of this or the thought rather that he
                            might not always remain as powerful as he was, having no stock in the
                            concern and not being able to buy any, had been interesting himself in a
                            proposition which had since been brought to him by Mr. Kenyon C.
                            Winfield, who, since that memorable conversation at the home of the
                            Willebrands on Long Island, had not forgotten him. Winfield had thought
                            of him for a long time in connection with a plan he had of establishing
                            on the South Shore of Long Island, some thirty-five miles from New York,
                            a magnificent seaside resort which should outrival Palm Beach and the
                            better places of Atlantic City, and give to New York, close at hand,
                            such a dream of beauty and luxury as would turn the vast tide of
                            luxury-loving idlers and successful money grubbers from the former
                            resorts to this. Considerable thought had been given by him as to just
                            what its principal characteristics should be, but he had not worked it
                            out to suit himself exactly, and he thought Eugene might be interested
                            from the outlining point of view.
                        Unfortunately, on the face of it, this was just the sort of scheme which
                            made an appeal to Eugene from all points of view, in spite of the fact
                            that he already had his hands as full as they could be. Nothing
                            interested him quite so much as beauty and luxury in some artistic
                            combination. A sommer resort of really imposing proportions, with
                            hotels, casinos, pagodas, resident sections, club houses, a wide board
                            or stone walk along the ocean, and possibly a gambling center which
                            should outrival Monte Carlo, had long since occurred to him as something
                            which might well spring up near New York. He and Angela had visited Palm
                            Beach, Old Point Comfort, Virginia Hot Springs, Newport, Shelter Island,
                            Atlantic City, and Tuxedo, and his imprescions  of what constituted luxury and beauty had long since
                            widened to magnificent proportions. He liked the interiors of the
                            Chamberlain at Old Point Comfort, and the Royal Ponciana at Palm Beach.
                            He had studied with artistic curiosity the development of the hotel
                            features at Atlantic City and elsewhere. It had occurred to him that a
                            restricted territory might be had out on the Atlantic Ocean near
                            Gravesend Bay possibly, which would include among other things islands,
                            canals or inland waterways, a mighty sea beach, two or three great
                            hotels, a casino for dancing, dining, gambling, a great stone or
                            concrete walk to be laid out on a new plan parallel with the ocean, and
                            at the back of all these things and between the islands and the ocean a
                            magnificent seaside city where the lots should sell at so expensive a
                            rate that only the well-to-do could afford to live there. His thought
                            was of something so fine that it would attract all the prominent
                            pleasure-lovers he had recently met. If they could be made to understand
                            that such a place existed; that it was beautiful, showy, exclusive in a
                            money sense, they would come there by the thousands.
                        "Nothing is so profitable as a luxury, if the luxury-loving
                            public want it," Colfax had once said to him; and he believed
                            it. He judged this truth by the things he had recently seen. People
                            literally spent millions to make themselves comfortable. He had seen
                            gardens, lawns, walks, pavilions, pergolas, laid out at an expense of
                            thousands and hundreds of thousands of dollars, where few would ever see
                            them. In St. Louis he had seen a mausoleum built upon the lines of the
                            Taj Mahal, the lawn about which was undermined by a steam-heating plant
                            in order that the flowers and shrubs displayed there might bloom all
                            winter long. It had never occurred to him that the day would come when
                            he would have anything to do with such a dream as this or its ultimate
                            fruition, but his was the kind of mind that loved to dwell on things of
                            the sort.
                        The proposition which Winfield now genially laid before him one day was
                            simple enough. Winfield had heard that Eugene was making a good deal of
                            money, that his salary was twenty-five thousand a year, if not more,
                            that he had houses and lots and some nice stock investments, and it
                            occurred to him, as it would have to anyone, that Eugene might be able
                            to shoulder a comfortable investment in some kind of land speculation,
                            particularly if he could see his way to make much more money in the long
                            run. The idea Winfield had was as follows: He was going to organize a
                            corporation to be known as The Sea Island Development Company, to be
                            capitalized at ten million dollars,  some
                            two or three hundred thousand dollars of which was to be laid down or
                            paid into the treasury at the start. Against this latter sum stock to
                            the value of one million dollars, or five shares of one hundred dollars
                            par value each, was to be issued. That is, whoever laid down one hundred
                            dollars in cash was to receive in return three shares of common stock
                            and two of preferred, valued at one hundred dollars each, bearing eight
                            per cent. interest. This ratio was to be continued until $200,000 in
                            cash was in the treasury. Then those who came afterward and were willing
                            to buy were only to receive two shares of common and one of preferred,
                            until one million in cash was in the treasury. After that the stock was
                            to be sold at its face value, or more, as the situation might
                            dictate.
                        The original sum of two hundred thousands dollars was to go to purchase
                            for the corporation an undeveloped tract of land, half swamp, half
                            island, and facing the Atlantic Ocean beyond Gravesend Bay, now owned by
                            Winfield himself, where a beautiful rolling beach of white sand
                            stretched some three miles in length and without flaw or interruption.
                            This would clear Winfield of a piece of property which was worth, say
                            $60,000, but at present unsaleable, and give him magnificent holdings in
                            the new company besides. He proposed to take a mortgage on this and all
                            improvements the company might make in order to protect himself. At the
                            west end of this tractinland from the seawas a beautiful bay, which,
                            though shallow, gave access to a series of inlets and a network of
                            waterways, embracing nine small islands. These waterways, when dredged,
                            would be amply deep enough for yachts and small craft of all
                            descriptions, and the first important thought which occurred to Winfield
                            was that the mud and sand so dredged could be used to fill in the low,
                            marshy levels of soil between them and the sea and so make it all into
                            high, dry, and valuable land. The next thing was to devise a beautiful
                            scheme of improvement, and it was for this that he wished to talk to
                            Eugene.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER III
                        THE matter was not difficult to arrange. Before Winfield had gone ten
                            sentences, Eugene began to take the ideas out of his mind.
                        "I know something of that property," he said, studying
                            a little outline map which Winfield had prepared.
                            "I've been out there duck shooting with Colfax and
                            some others. It's fine property, there's no doubt of
                            it. How much do they want for it?"
                        "Well, as a matter of fact, I already own it," said
                            Winfield. "It cost me sixty thousand dollars five years ago
                            when it was a vast, inaccessible swamp. Nothing has been done to it
                            since, but I will turn it over to the company for what it is worth
                            nowtwo hundred thousand dollarsand take a mortgage for my protection.
                            Then the company can do what it pleases with it; but as president, of
                            course, I should direct the line of development. If you want to make a
                            fortune and have fifty thousand dollars to spare, here is your chance.
                            This land has increased in value from sixty to two hundred thousand
                            dollars in five years. What do you fancy it will be worth in ten years
                            from now the way New York is growing? It has pretty near four million
                            people now. In twenty-five years it is safe to say that there will be
                            fourteen or fifteen millions scattered over this territory which lies
                            within twenty-five miles. Of course, this is thirty-two miles away on a
                            direct line, but what of it? The Long Island Railroad will be glad to
                            put a spur in there which would bring this territory within one hour of
                            the city. Think of itone of the finest beaches on the Atlantic Ocean
                            within one hour of New York! I expect to interest Mr. Wiltse, the
                            President of the Long Island, very heavily in this property. I come to
                            you now because I think your advertising and artistic advice are worth
                            something. You can take it or leave it, but before you do anything. I
                            want you to come out and look over the property with me."
                        All told, in stocks, land, free money in the banks, and what he might
                            save in a year or two, Eugene had about fifty thousand dollars of good
                            hard cash which he could lay his hands on at a pinch. He was well
                            satisfied that Winfield was putting before him one of those golden
                            opportunities which, prudently managed, would make him a rich man.
                            Nevertheless, his fifty thousand was fifty thousand, and he had it.
                            Never again, however,  once this other
                            thing was under way, if it were true, would he have to worry about a
                            position, or whether he would be able to maintain his present place in
                            society. One could not possibly say what an investment like this might
                            not lead to. Winfield, so he told Eugene, expected eventually to clear
                            six or eight million dollars himself. He was going to take stock in some
                            of the hotels, casinos, and various other enterprises, which would be
                            organized. He could clearly see how, later, once this land was properly
                            drained and laid out, it would be worth from three to fifteen thousand
                            dollars per lot of one hundred by one hundred feetthe smallest portions
                            to be sold. There were islands which for clubs or estates should bring
                            splendid returns. Think of the leases to yacht and boat clubs alone! The
                            company would own all the land.
                        "I would develop this myself if I had the capital,"
                            said Winfield, "but I want to see it done on a gigantic scale,
                            and I haven't the means. I want something here which will be a
                            monument to me and to all connected with it. I am willing to take my
                            chances pro rata with those who now enter, and to prove my good faith I
                            am going to buy as many shares as I possibly can on the five-for-one
                            basis. You or anyone else can do the same thing. What do you
                            think?"
                        "It's a great idea," said Eugene. "It
                            seems as though a dream which had been floating about in the back of my
                            head for years had suddenly come to life. I can scarcely believe that it
                            is true, and yet I know that it is, and that you will get away with it
                            just as you are outlining it here. You want to be very careful how you
                            lay out this property, though. You have the chance of a lifetime. For
                            goodness' sake, don't make any mistakes!
                            Let's have one resort that will be truly, beautifully
                            right."
                        "That's precisely the way I feel about it,"
                            answered Winfield, "and that's why I am talking to
                            you. I want you to come in on this, for I think your imagination will be
                            worth something. You can help me lay this thing out right and advertise
                            it right."
                        They talked on about one detail and another until finally Eugene, in
                            spite of all his caution, saw his dreams maturing in this particular
                            proposition. Fifty thousand dollars invested here would give him two
                            thousand five hundred sharesone thousand preferred, and fifteen hundred
                            commonwhose face value, guaranteed by this magnificent piece of
                            property, would be $250,000. Think of it, $250,000a quarter of a
                            millionand that subject a natural increase which might readily carry him
                            into the millionaire class! His own brains would be of some value here,
                            for Winfield was anxious to have him lay this out, and this  would bring him in touch with not only
                            one of the best real estate men in the city, but would bring him into
                            contact with a whole host of financiers in business, people who would
                            certainly become interested in this venture. Winfield talked easily of
                            architects, contractors, railroad men, presidents of construction
                            companies, all of whom would take stock for the business opportunities
                            it would bring to them later and also of the many strings to be pulled
                            which later would bring great gains to the company and save it from
                            expenditures which would otherwise mean millions in outlay. Thus this
                            proposed extension by the Long Island which would cost that railroad two
                            hundred thousand dollars would cost the Sea Island Company nothing and
                            would bring thousands of lovers of beauty there the moment conveniences
                            were established to receive them. This was true of hotels to be built.
                            Each would bring business for everything else. The company would lease
                            the ground. The great hotel men would do their own building according to
                            restrictions and plans laid down by the Sea Island Company. The only
                            real expenditure would be for streets, sewers, lights, water, walks,
                            trees, and the great one hundred foot wide boardwalk with concrete
                            ornaments which would be the finest sea stroll in the world. But these
                            could be undertaken by degrees.
                        Eugene saw it all. It was a vision of empire. "I don't
                            know about this," he said cautiously. "It's a
                            great thing, but I may not have the means to dip into it. I want to
                            think it over. Meanwhile, I'll be glad to go out there and look
                            over the ground with you."
                        Winfield could see that he had Eugene fascinated. It would be an easy
                            matter to land him once he had his plans perfected. Eugene would be the
                            type of man who would build a house and come and live there in the
                            summer. He would interest many people whom he knew. He went away feeling
                            that he had made a good start, and he was not mistaken.
                        Eugene talked the matter over with Angelahis one recourse in these
                            mattersand as usual she was doubtful, but not entirely opposed. Angela
                            had considerable caution, but no great business vision. She could not
                            really tell him what he ought to do. Thus far his judgment, or rather
                            his moves, had been obviously successful. He had been going up
                            apparently because he was valuable as an assistant, not because he was a
                            born leader.
                        "You'll have to judge for yourself, Eugene,"
                            Angela finally said. "I don't know. It looks fine. You
                            certainly don't want to work for Mr. Colfax all your life, and
                            if, as you say, they are beginning to plot against you, you had better
                            prepare to get  out sometime. We have
                            enough now, really, to live on, if you want to return to your
                            art."
                        Eugene smiled. "My art. My poor old art! A lot I've
                            done to develop my art."
                        "I don't think it needs developing. You have it.
                            I'm sorry sometimes I ever let you leave it. We have lived
                            better, but your work hasn't counted for as much. What good has
                            it done you outside the money to be a successful publisher? You were as
                            famous as you are now before you ever started in on this line, and more
                            so. More people know you even now as Eugene Witla, the artist, than as
                            Eugene Witla, the magazine man."
                        Eugene knew this to be so. His art achievements had never forsaken him.
                            They had grown in fame always. Pictures that he had sold for two hundred
                            and four hundred had gone up to as high as three and four thousand in
                            value, and they were still rising. He was occasionally approached by an
                            art dealer to know if he never intended to paint any more. In social
                            circles it was a constant cry among the elect, "Why
                            don't you paint any longer?" "What a shame
                            you ever left the art worldl" "Those pictures of
                            yours, I can never forget them."
                        "My dear lady," Eugene once said solemnly, "I
                            can't live by painting pictures as I am living by directing
                            magazines. Art is very lovely. I am satisfied to believe that I am a
                            great painter. Nevertheless, I made little out of it, and since then I
                            have learned to live. It's sad, but it's true. If I
                            could see my way to live in half the comfort I am living in now and not
                            run the risk of plodding the streets with a picture under my arm, I
                            would gladly return to art. The trouble is the world is always so
                            delightfully ready to see the other fellow make the sacrifice for art or
                            literatur's sake. Selah! I won't do it. So
                            there!"
                        "It's a pity! It's a pity!" said this
                            observer, but Eugene was not vastly distressed. Similarly Mrs. Dale had
                            reproached him, for she had seen and heard of his work.
                        "Some time. Some time," he said grandly;
                            "wait."
                        Now at length this land proposition seemed to clear the way for
                            everything. If Eugene embarked upon it, he might gradually come to the
                            point at which he could take some official position in connection with
                            it. Anyhow, think of a rising income from $250,000! Think of the
                            independence, the freedom! Surely then he could paint or travel, or do
                            as he pleased.
                        As a matter of fact, after two automobile rides to the nearest available
                            position on the site of the future resort and a careful study of the
                            islands and the beach, Eugene devised a scheme which included four
                            hotels of varying sizes, one dining and 
                            dancing casino, one gambling resort after the pattern of Monte Carlo, a
                            summer theatre, a music pavilion, three lovely piers, motor and yacht
                            club houses, a park with radiating streets, and other streets arranged
                            in concentric rings to cross them. There was a grand plaza about which
                            the four hotels were ranged, a noble promenade, three miles in length,
                            to begin with, a handsome railway station, plots for five thousand
                            summer homes, ranging from five to fifteen thousand in price. There were
                            islands for residences, islands for clubs, islands for parks. One of the
                            hotels sat close to an inlet over which a dining veranda was to be
                            builtstairs were to be laid down to the water so that one could step
                            into gondolas or launches and be carried quickly to one of the music
                            pavilions on one of the islands. Everything that money wanted was to be
                            eventually available here, and all was to be gone about slowly but
                            beautifully, so that each step would only make more sure each additional
                            step.
                        Eugene did not enter on this grand scheme until ten men, himself
                            included, had pledged themselves to take stock up to $50,000 each.
                            Included in these were Mr. Wiltsie, President of the Long Island; Mr.
                            Kenyon C. Winfield, and Milton Willebrand, the very wealthy society man
                            at whose home he had originally met Winfield. The Sea Island Company was
                            then incorporated, and on a series of dates agreed upon between them and
                            which were dependent upon a certain amount of work being accomplished by
                            each date, the stock was issued to them in tenthousand-dollar lots and
                            then cash taken and deposited in the treasury. By the end of two years
                            after Eugene had first been approached by Winfield he had a choice
                            collection of gold-colored certificates in the Sea Island Realty and
                            Construction Company, which was building the now widely heralded seaside
                            resort"Blue Sea"which, according to those interested,
                            was to be the most perfect resort of its kind in the world. His
                            certificates stated that they were worth $250,000, and potentially they
                            were. Eugene and Angela looking at them, thinking of the initiative and
                            foresight of Mr. Kenyon C. Winfield and the men he was associated with,
                            felt sure that some day, and that not so very far distant, they would
                            yield their face value and much more.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER IV
                        IT had been while he was first perfecting his undertaking with Winfield
                            as to what his relationship to the new Sea Island Construction Company
                            was to be that Eugene had been dwelling more and more fondly upon the
                            impression which Suzanne Dale had originally made upon him. It was six
                            weeks before they met again, and then it was on the occasion of a dance
                            that Mrs. Dale was giving in honor of Suzanne that Eugene and Angela
                            were invited. Mrs. Dale admired Angela's sterling qualities as
                            a wife, and while there might be temperamental and social differences,
                            she did not think they were sufficient to warrant any discrimination
                            between them, at least not on her part. Angela was a good womannot a
                            social figure at allbut interesting in her way. Mrs. Dale was much more
                            interested in Eugene, because in the first place they were very much
                            alike temperamentally, and in the next place because Eugene was a
                            successful and brilliant person. She liked to see the easy manner in
                            which he took life, the air with which he assumed that talent should
                            naturally open all doors to him. He was not conscious apparently of any
                            inferiority in anything but rather of a splendid superiority. She heard
                            it from so many that he was rapidly rising in his publishing world and
                            that he was interested in many things, the latest this project to create
                            a magnificent summer resort. Winfield was a personal friend of hers. He
                            had never attempted to sell her any property, but he had once said that
                            he might some day take her Staten Island holdings and divide them up
                            into town lots. This was one possibility which tended to make her
                            pleasant to him.
                        The evening in question Eugene and Angela went down to Daleview in their
                            automobile. Eugene always admired this district, for it gave him a sense
                            of height and scope which was not easily attainable elsewhere about New
                            York. It was still late winter and the night was cold but clear. The
                            great house with its verandas encased in glass was brightly lit. There
                            were a number of peoplemen and women, whom Eugene had met at various
                            places, and quite a number of young people whom he did not know. Angela
                            had to be introduced to a great many, and Eugene felt that peculiar
                            sensation which he so often experienced of a certain incongruity in his
                            matrimonial state. Angela was  nice, but
                            to him she was not like these other women who carried themselves with
                            such an air. There was a statuesqueness and a sufficiency about many of
                            them, to say nothing of their superb beauty and sophistication which
                            made him feel, when the contrast was forced upon him closely, that he
                            had made a terrible mistake. Why had he been so silly as to marry? He
                            could have told Angela frankly that he would not at the time, and all
                            would have been well. He forgot how badly, emotionally, he had entangled
                            himself. But scenes like these made him dreadfully unhappy. Why, his
                            life if he were single would now be but beginning!
                        As he walked round tonight he was glad to be free socially even for a few
                            minutes. He was glad that first this person and that took the trouble to
                            talk to Angela. It relieved him of the necessity of staying near her,
                            for if he neglected her or she felt neglected by others she was apt to
                            reproach him. If he did not show her attention, she would complain that
                            he was conspicuous in his indifference. If others refused to talk to
                            her, it was his place. He should. Eugene objected to this necessity with
                            all his soul, but he did not see what he was to do about it. As she
                            often said, even if he had made a mistake in marrying her, it was his
                            place to stick by her now that he had. A real man would.
                        One of the things that interested him was the number of beautiful young
                            women. He was interested to see how full and complete mentally and
                            physically so many girls appeared to be at eighteen. Why, in their
                            taste, shrewdness, completeness, they were fit mates for a man of almost
                            any age up to forty! Some of them looked so wonderful to himso fresh and
                            ruddy with the fires of ambition and desire burning briskly in their
                            veins. Beautiful girlsreal flowers, like roses, light and dark. And to
                            think the love period was all over for himcompletely over!
                        Suzanne came down with others after a while from some room upstairs, and
                            once more Eugene was impressed with her simple, natural, frank,
                            good-natured attitude. Her light chestnut-colored hair was tied with a
                            wide band of light blue ribbon which matched her eyes and contrasted
                            well with her complexion. Again, her dress was some light flimsy thing,
                            the color of peach blossoms, girdled with ribbon and edged with flowers
                            like a wreath. Soft white sandals held her feet.
                        "Oh, Mr. Witla!" she said gaily, holding out her smooth
                            white arm on a level with her eyes and dropping her hand gracefully. Her
                            red lips were parted, showing even white teeth, arching into a radiant
                            smile. Her eyes were quite wide as he remembered, with an innocent,
                            surprised look in them, which was  wholly
                            unconscious with her. If wet roses could outrival a maiden in all her
                            freshness, he thought he would like to see it. Nothing could equal the
                            beauty of a young woman in her eighteenth or nineteenth year.
                        "Yes, quite, Mr. Witla," he said, beaming. "I
                            thought you had forgotten. My, we look charming this evening! We look
                            like roses and cut flowers and stained-glass windows and boxes of
                            jewels, and, and, and"
                        He pretended to be lost for more words and looked quizzically up at the
                            ceiling.
                        Suzanne began to laugh. Like Eugene, she had a marked sense of the comic
                            and the ridiculous. She was not in the least vain, and the idea of being
                            like roses and boxes of jewels and stained-glass windows tickled ber
                            fancy.
                        "Why, that's quite a collection of things to be,
                            isn't it?" she laughed, her lips parted. "I
                            wouldn't mind being all those things if I could, particularly
                            the jewels. Mama won't give me any. I can't even get a
                            brooch for my throat."
                        "Mama is real mean, apparently," said Eugene
                            vigorously. "We'll have to talk to mama, but she
                            knows, you know, that you don't need any jewels, see? She knows
                            that you have something which is just as good, or better. But we
                            won't talk about that, will we?"
                        Suzanne had been afraid that he was going to begin complimenting her, but
                            seeing how easily he avoided this course she liked him for it. She was a
                            little overawed by his dignity and mental capacity, but attracted by his
                            gaiety and lightness of manner.
                        "Do you know, Mr. Witla," she said, "I believe
                            you like to tease people."
                        "Oh, no!" said Eugene. "Oh, never, never!
                            Nothing like that. How could I? Tease people! Far be it from me!
                            That's the very last thing I ever think of doing. I always
                            approach people in a very solemn manner and tell them the dark sad
                            truth. It's the only way. They need it. The more truth I tell
                            the better I feel. And then they like me so much better for
                            it."
                        At the first rush of his quizzical tirade Suzanne's eyes opened
                            quaintly, inquiringly. Then she began to smile, and in a moment after he
                            ceased she exclaimed: "Oh, ha! ha! Oh, dear! Oh, dear, how you
                            talk!" A ripple of laughter spread outward, and Eugene frowned
                            darkly.
                        "How dare you laugh?" he said. "Don't
                            laugh at me. It's against the rules to laugh, anyhow.
                            Don't you remember growing  girls
                            should never laugh? Solemnity is the first rule of beauty. Never smile.
                            Keep perfectly solemn. Look wise. Hence. Therefore. If.
                            And"
                        He lifted a finger solemnly, and Suzanne stared. He had fixed her eye
                            with his and was admiring her pretty chin and nose and lips, while she
                            gazed not knowing what to make of him. He was very different; very much
                            like a boy, and yet very much like a solemn, dark master of some
                            kind.
                        "You almost frighten me," she said.
                        "Now, now, listen! It's all over. Come to. I'm
                            just a silly-billy. Are you going to dance with me this
                            evening?"
                        "Why, certainly, if you want me to! Oh, that reminds me! We have
                            cards. Did you get one?"
                        "No."
                        "Well, they're over here, I think."
                        She led the way toward the reception hall, and Eugene took from the
                            footman who was stationed there two of the little books.
                        "Let's see," he said, writing, "how
                            greedy dare I be?"
                        Suzanne made no reply.
                        "If I take the third and the sixth and the tenthwould that be
                            too many?"
                        "No-o," said Suzanne doubtfully.
                        He wrote in hers and his and then they went back to the drawing-room
                            where so many were now moving. "Will you be sure and save me
                            these?"
                        "Why, certainly," she replied. "To be sure, I
                            will!"
                        "That's nice of you. And now here comes your mother.
                            Remember, you mustn't ever, ever, ever laugh. It's
                            against the rules."
                        Suzanne went away, thinking. She was pleased at the gaiety of this man
                            who seemed so light-hearted and self-sufficient. He seemed like someone
                            who took her as a little girl, so different from the boys she knew who
                            were solemn in her presence and rather love sick. He was the kind of man
                            one could have lots of fun with without subjecting one's self
                            to undue attention and having to explain to her mother. Her mother liked
                            him. But she soon forgot him in the chatter of other people.
                        Eugene was thinking again, though, of the indefinable something in the
                            spirit of this girl which was attracting him so vigorously. What was it?
                            He had seen hundreds of girls in the last few years, all charming, but
                            somehow this oneShe seemed so strong albeit so new and young. There was
                            a poise therea substantial quality in her soul which could laugh at life
                                 and think no ill of it. That was it
                            or something of it, for of course her beauty was impressive, but a
                            courageous optimism was shining out through her eyes. It was in her
                            laugh, her mood. She would never be afraid.
                        The dance began after ten, and Eugene danced with first one and then
                            anotherAngela, Mrs. Dale, Mrs. Stevens, Miss Willy. When the third set
                            came he went looking for Suzanne and found her talking to another young
                            girl and two society men.
                        "Mine, you know," he said smilingly.
                        She came out to him laughing, stretching her arm in a sinuous way, quite
                            unconscious of the charming figure she made. She had a way of throwing
                            back her head which revealed her neck in beautiful lines. She looked
                            into Eugene's eyes simply and unaffectedly, returning his smile
                            with one of her own. And when they began to dance he felt as though he
                            had never really danced before.
                        What was it the poet said of the poetry of motion? This was it. This was
                            it. This girl could dance wonderfully, sweetly, as a fine voice sings.
                            She seemed to move like the air with the sound of the two-step coming
                            from an ambush of flowers, and Eugene yielded himself instinctively to
                            the charmthe hypnotism of it. He danced and in dancing forgot everything
                            except this vision leaning upon his arm and the sweetness of it all.
                            Nothing could equal this emotion, he said to himself. It was finer than
                            anything he had ever experienced. There was joy in it, pure delight, an
                            exquisite sense of harmony; and even while he was congratulating himself
                            the music seemed to hurry to a finish. Suzanne had looked up curiously
                            into his eyes.
                        "You like dancing, don't you?" she said.
                        "I do, but I don't dance well."
                        "Oh, I think so!" she replied. "You dance so
                            easily."
                        "It is because of you," he said simply. "You
                            have the soul of the dance in you. Most people dance poorly, like
                            myself."
                        "I don't think so," she said, hanging on to
                            his arm as they walked toward a seat. "Oh, there's
                            Kinroy! He has the next with me."
                        Eugene looked at her brother almost angrily. Why should circumstances rob
                            him of her company in this way? Kinroy looked like herhe was very
                            handsome for a boy.
                        "Well, then, I have to give you up. I wish there were
                            more."
                        He left her only to wait impatiently for the sixth and the tenth. He knew
                            it was silly to be interested in her in this way, for nothing could come
                            of it. She was a young girl hedged  about
                            by all the conventions and safeguards which go to make for the perfect
                            upbringing of girlhood. He was a man past the period of her interest,
                            watched over by conventions and interests also. There could be
                            absolutely nothing between them, and yet he longed for her just the
                            same, for just this little sip of the nectar of make-believe. For a few
                            minutes in her company, married or not, so many years older or not, he
                            could be happy in her company, teasing her. That sense of dancingthat
                            sense of perfect harmony with beautywhen had he ever experienced that
                            before?
                        The night went by, and at one he and Angela went home. She had been
                            entertained by some young officer in the army stationed at Fort
                            Wadsworth who had known her brother David. That had made the evening
                            pleasant for her. She commented on Mrs. Dale and Suzanne, what a
                            charming hostess the former was and how pretty and gay Suzanne looked,
                            but Eugene manifested little interest. He did not want it to appear that
                            he had been interested in Suzanne above any of the others.
                        "Yes, she's very nice," he said.
                            "Rather pretty; but she's like all girls at that age.
                            I like to tease them."
                        Angela wondered whether Eugene had really changed for good. He seemed
                            saner in all his talk concerning women. Perhaps large affairs had cured
                            him completely, though she could not help feeling that he must be
                            charmed and delighted by the beauty of some of the women whom he
                            saw.
                        Five weeks more went by and then he saw Suzanne one day with her mother
                            on Fifth Avenue, coming out of an antique shop. Mrs. Dale explained that
                            she was looking after the repair of a rare piece of furniture. Eugene
                            and Suzanne were enabled to exchange but a few gay words. Four weeks
                            later he met them at the Brentwood Hadleys, in Westchester. Suzanne and
                            her mother were enjoying a season of spring riding. Eugene was there for
                            only a Saturday afternoon and Sunday. On this occasion he saw her coming
                            in at half-past four wearing a divided riding skirt and looking flushed
                            and buoyant. Her lovely hair was flowing lightly about her temples.
                        "Oh, how are you?" she asked, with that same
                            inconsequent air, her hand held out to him at a high angle. "I
                            saw you last in Fifth Avenue, didn't I? Mama was having her
                            chair fixed. Ha, ha! She's such a slow rider! I've
                            left her miles behind. Are you going to be here long?"
                        "Just today and tomorrow."
                        He looked at her, pretending gaiety and indifference.
                        "Is Mrs. Witla here?"
                        
                        "No, she couldn't come. A relative of hers is in the
                            city."
                        "I need a bath terribly," said the desire of his eyes,
                            and passed on, calling back: "I'll see you again
                            before dinner, very likely."
                        Eugene sighed.
                        She came down after an hour, dressed in a flowered organdie, a black silk
                            band about her throat, a low collar showing her pretty neck. She picked
                            up a magazine, passing a wicker table, and came down the veranda where
                            Eugene was sitting alone. Her easy manner interested him, and her
                            friendliness. She liked him well enough to be perfectly natural with him
                            and to seek him out where he was sitting once she saw he was there.
                        "Oh, here you are!" she said, and sat down, taking a
                            chair which was near him.
                        "Yes, here I am," he said, and began teasing her as
                            usual, for it was the only way in which he knew how to approach her.
                            Suzanne responded vivaciously, for Eugene's teasing delighted
                            her. It was the one kind of humor she really enjoyed.
                        "You know, Mr. Witla," she said to him once,
                            "I'm not going to laugh at any of your jokes any more.
                            They're all at my expense."
                        "That makes it all the nicer," he said. "You
                            wouldn't want me to make jokes at my expense, would you? That
                            would be a terrible joke."
                        She laughed and he smiled. They looked at a golden sunset filtering
                            through a grove of tender maples. The spring was young and the leaves
                            just budding.
                        "Isn't it lovely tonight?" he asked.
                        "Oh, yes!" she exclaimed, in a mellow, meditative
                            voice, the first ring of deep sincerity in it that he ever noticed
                            there.
                        "Do you like nature?" he asked.
                        "Do I?" she returned. "I can't get
                            enough of the woods these days. I feel so queer sometimes, Mr. Witla. As
                            though I were not really alive at all, you know. Just a sound, or a
                            color in the woods."
                        He stopped and looked at her. The simile caught him quite as any notable
                            characteristic in anyone would have caught him. What was the color and
                            complexity of this girl's mind? Was she so wise, so artistic
                            and so emotional that nature appealed to her in a deep way? Was this
                            wonderful charm that he felt the shadow or radiance of something finer
                            still?
                        "So that's the way it is, is it?" he
                            asked.
                        "Yes," she said quietly.
                        He sat and looked at her, and she eyed him as solemnly.
                        "Why do you look at me so?" she asked.
                        
                        "Why do you say such curious things?" he answered.
                        "What did I say?"
                        "I don't believe you really know. Well, never mind. Let
                            us walk, will you? Do you mind? It's still an hour to dinner.
                            I'd like to go over and see what's beyond those
                            trees."
                        They went down a little path bordered with grass and under green budding
                            twigs. It came to a stile finally and looked out upon a stony green
                            field where some cows were pasturing.
                        "Oh, the spring! The spring!" exclaimed Eugene, and
                            Suzanne answered: "You know, Mr. Witla, I think we must be
                            something alike in some ways. That's just the way I
                            feel."
                        "How do you know how I feel?"
                        "I can tell by your voice," she said.
                        "Can you, really?"
                        "Why, yes. Why shouldn't I?"
                        "What a strange girl you are!" he said thoughtfully.
                            "I don't think I understand you quite."
                        "Why, why, am I so different from everyone else?"
                        "Quite, quite," he said; "at least to me. I
                            have never seen anyone quite like you before.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER V
                        IT was after this meeting that vague consciousness came to Suzanne that
                            Mr. Witla, as she always thought of him to herself, was just a little
                            more than very nice to her. He was so gentle, so meditative, and withal
                            so gay when he was near her! He seemed fairly to bubble whenever he came
                            into her presence, never to have any cause for depression or gloom such
                            as sometimes seized on her when she was alone. He was always
                            immaculately dressed, and had great affairs, so her mother said. They
                            discussed him once at table at Daleview, and Mrs. Dale said she thought
                            he was charming.
                        "He's one of the nicest fellows that comes here, I
                            think," said Kinroy. "I don't like that
                            stick, Woodward."
                        He was referring to another man of about Eugene's age who
                            admired his mother.
                        "Mrs. Witla is such a queer little woman," said
                            Suzanne. "She's so different from Mr. Witla.
                            He's so gay and goodnatured, and she's so reserved. Is
                            she as old as he is, mama?
                        "I don't think so," said Mrs. Dale, who was
                            deceived by Angela's apparent youth. "What makes you
                            ask?"
                        "Oh, I just wondered!" said Suzanne, who was vaguely
                            curious concerning things in connection with Eugene.
                        There were several other meetings, one of which Eugene engineered, once
                            when he persuaded Angela to invite Suzanne and her mother to a spring
                            night revel they were having at the studio, and the other when he and
                            Angela were invited to the Willebrands, where the Dales were also.
                        Angela was always with him. Mrs. Dale almost always with Suzanne. There
                            were a few conversations, but they were merely gay, inconsequent
                            make-believe talks, in which Suzanne saw Eugene as one who was forever
                            happy. She little discerned the brooding depths of longing that lay
                            beneath his gay exterior.
                        The climax was brought about, however, when one July day after a short
                            visit to one of the summer resorts, Angela was taken ill. She had always
                            been subject to colds and sore throats, and these pecufiar signs, which
                            are associated by medical men with latent rheumatism, finally culminated
                            in this complaint. Angela had also been pronounced to have a weak heart,
                            and this combined with a sudden, severe rheumatic attack completely
                            prostrated her. A trained nurse had to be called, and Angela's
                                 sister Marietta was sent for.
                            Eugene's sister Myrtle, who now lived in New York, was asked by
                            him to come over and take charge, and under her supervision, pending
                            Marietta's arrival, his household went forward smoothly enough.
                            The former, being a full-fledged Christian Scientist, having been
                            instantly cured, as she asserted, of a long-standing nervous complaint,
                            was for calling a Christian Science practitioner, but Eugene would have
                            none of it. He could not believe that there was anything in this new
                            religious theory, and thought Angela needed a doctor. He sent for a
                            specialist in her complaint. He pronounced that six weeks at the least,
                            perhaps two months, must elapse before Angela would be able to sit up
                            again.
                        "Her system is full of rheumatism," said her physician.
                            "She is in a very bad way. Rest and quiet, and constant
                            medication will bring her round."
                        Eugene was sorry. He did not want to see her suffer, but her sickness did
                            not for one minute alter his mental attitude. In fact, he did not see
                            how it could. It did not change their relative mental outlook in any
                            way. Their peculiar relationship of guardian and restless ward was quite
                            unaffected.
                        All social functions of every kind were now abandoned and Eugene stayed
                            at home every evening, curious to see what the outcome would be. He
                            wanted to see how the trained nurse did her work and what the doctor
                            thought would be the next step. He had a great deal to do at all times,
                            reading, consulting, and many of those who wished to confer with him
                            came to the apartment of an evening. All those who knew them socially at
                            all intimately called or sent messages of condolence, and among those
                            who came were Mrs. Dale and Suzanne. The former because Eugene had been
                            so nice to her in a publishing way and was shortly going to bring out
                            her first attempt at a novel was most assiduous. She sent flowers and
                            came often, proffering the services of Suzanne for any day that the
                            nurse might wish to be off duty or Myrtle could not be present. She
                            thought Angela might like to have Suzanne read to her. At least the
                            offer sounded courteous and was made in good faith.
                        Suzanne did not come alone at first, but after a time, when Angela had
                            been ill four weeks and Eugene had stood the heat the town apartment
                            nightly for the chance of seeing her, she did. Mrs. Dale suggested that
                            he should run down to her place over Saturday and Sunday. It was not
                            far. They were in close telephone communication. It would rest him.
                        Eugene, though Angela had suggested it a number of times  before, had refused to go to any seaside
                            resort or hotel, even for Saturday and Sunday, his statement being that
                            he did not care to go alone at this time. The truth was he was becoming
                            so interested in Suzanne that he did not care to go anywhere save
                            somewhere that he might see her again.
                        Mrs. Dale's offer was welcome enough, but having dissembled so
                            much he had to dissemble more. Mrs. Dale insisted. Angela added her
                            plea. Myrtle thought he ought to go. He finally ordered the car to take
                            him down one Friday afternoon and leave him. Suzanne was out somewhere,
                            but he sat on the veranda and basked in the magnificent view it gave of
                            the lower bay. Kinroy and some young friend, together with two girls,
                            were playing tennis on one of the courts. Eugene went out to watch them,
                            and presently Suzanne returned, ruddy from a walk she had taken to a
                            neighbor's house. At the sight of her every nerve in
                            Eugene's body tingledhe felt a great exaltation, and it seemed
                            as though she responded in kind, for she was particularly gay and
                            laughing.
                        "They have a four," she called to him, her white duck
                            skirt blowing. "Let's you and I get rackets and play
                            single."
                        "I'm not very good, you know," he said.
                        "You couldn't be worse than I am," she
                            replied. "I'm so bad Kinroy won't let me play
                            in any game with him. Ha, ha!"
                        "Such being the case" Eugene said lightly, and followed
                            her to get the rackets.
                        They went to the second court, where they played practically unheeded.
                            Every hit was a signal for congratulation on the part of one or the
                            other, every miss for a burst of laughter or a jest. Eugene devoured
                            Suzanne with his eyes, and she looked at him continually, in wide-eyed
                            sweetness, scarcely knowing what she was doing. Her own hilarity on this
                            occasion was almost inexplicable to her. It seemed as though she was
                            possessed of some spirit of joy which she couldn't control. She
                            confessed to him afterward that she had been wildly glad, exalted, and
                            played with freedom and abandon, though at the same time she was
                            frightened and nervous. To Eugene she was of course ravishing to behold.
                            She could not play, as she truly said, but it made no difference. Her
                            motions were beautiful.
                        Mrs. Dale had long admired Eugene's youthful spirit. She watched
                            him now from one of the windows, and thought of him much as one might of
                            a boy. He and Suzanne looked charming playing together. It occurred to
                            her that if he were single he would not make a bad match for her
                            daughter. Fortunately he  was sane,
                            prudent, charming, more like a guardian to Suzanne than anything else.
                            Her friendship for him was rather a healthy sign.
                        After dinner it was proposed by Kinroy that he and his friends and
                            Suzanne go to a dance which was being given at a club house, near the
                            government fortifications at The Narrows, where they spread out into the
                            lower bay. Mrs. Dale, not wishing to exclude Eugene, who was depressed
                            at the thought of Suzanne's going and leaving him behind,
                            suggested that they all go. She did not care so much for dancing
                            herself, but Suzanne had no partner and Kinroy and his friend were very
                            much interested in the girls they were taking. A car was called, and
                            they sped to the club to find it dimly lighted with Chinese lantern, and
                            an orchestra playing softly in the gloom.
                        "Now you go ahead and dance," said her mother to
                            Suzanne. "I want to sit out here and look at the water a while.
                            I'll watch you through the door."
                        Eugene held out his hand to Suzanne, who took it, and in a moment they
                            were whirling round. A kind of madness seized them both, for without a
                            word or look they drew close to each other and danced furiously, in a
                            clinging ecstasy of joy.
                        "Oh, how lovely!" Suzanne exclaimed at one turn of the
                            room, where, passing an open door, they looked out and saw a full
                            lighted ship passing silently by in the distant dark. A sail boat; its
                            one great sail enveloped in a shadowy quiet, floated wraith-like, nearer
                            still.
                        "Do scenes like that appeal to you so?" asked
                            Eugene.
                        "Oh, do they!" she pulsated. "They take my
                            breath away. This does, too, it's so lovely!"
                        Eugene sighed. He understood now. Never, he said to himself, was the soul
                            of an artist so akin to his own and so enveloped in beauty. This same
                            thirst for beauty that was in him was in her, and it was pulling her to
                            him. Only her soul was so exquisitely set in youth and beauty and
                            maidenhood that it overawed and frightened him. It seemed impossible
                            that she should ever love him. These eyes, this face of hershow they
                            enchanted him! He was drawn as by a strong cord, and so was sheby an
                            immense, terrible magnetism. He had felt it all the afternoon. Keenly.
                            He was feeling it intensely now. He pressed her to his bosom, and she
                            yielded, yearningly, suiting her motions to his subtlest moods. He
                            wanted to exclaim: "Oh, Suzanne! Oh, Suzanne!" but he
                            was afraid. If he said anything to her it would frighten her. She did
                            not really dream as yet what it all meant.
                        
                        "You know," he said, when the music stopped,
                            "I'm quite beside myself. It's narcotic. I
                            feel like a boy."
                        "Oh, if they would only go on!" was all she said. And
                            together they went out on the veranda, where there were no lights but
                            only chairs and the countless stars.
                        "Well?" said Mrs. Dale.
                        "I'm afraid you don't love to dance as well as
                            I do?" observed Eugene calmly, sitting down beside her.
                        "I'm afraid I don't, seeing how joyously you
                            do it. I've been watching you. You two dance well together.
                            Kinroy, won't you have them bring us ices?"
                        Suzanne had slipped away to the side of her brother's friends.
                            She talked to them cheerily the while Eugene watched her, but she was
                            intensely conscious of his presence and charm. She tried to think what
                            she was doing, but somehow she could notshe could only feel. The music
                            struck up again, and for looks' sake he let her dance with her
                            brother's friend. The next was his, and the next, for Kinroy
                            preferred to sit out one, and his friend also. Suzanne and Eugene danced
                            the major portions of the dances together, growing into a wild
                            exaltation, which, however, was wordless except for a certain eagerness
                            which might have been read into what they said. Their hands spoke when
                            they touched and their eyes when they met. Suzanne was intensely shy and
                            fearsome. She was really half terrified by what she was doingafraid lest
                            some word or thought would escape Eugene, and she wanted to dwell in the
                            joy of this. He went once between two dances, when she was hanging over
                            the rail looking at the dark, gurgling water below, and leaned over
                            beside her.
                        "How wonderful this night is!" he said.
                        "Yes, yes!" she exclaimed, and looked away.
                        "Do you wonder at all at the mystery of life?"
                        "Oh, yes; oh, yes! All the time."
                        "And you are so young!" he said passionately,
                            intensely.
                        "Sometimes, you know, Mr. Witla," she sighed,
                            "I do not like to think."
                        "Why?"
                        "Oh, I don't know; I just can't tell you! I
                            can't find words. I don't know."
                        There was an intense pathos in her phrasing which meant everything to his
                            understanding. He understood how voiceless a great soul really might be,
                            new born without an earth-manufactured vocabulary. It gave him a clearer
                            insight into a thought he had had for a long while and that was that we
                            came, as Wordsworth expressed it, "trailing clouds of
                            glory." But from  where? Her soul
                            must be intensely wiseelse why his yearning to her? But, oh, the pathos
                            of her voicelessness!
                        They went home in the car, and late that night, while he was sitting on
                            the veranda smoking to soothe his fevered brain, there was one other
                            scene. The night was intensely warm everywhere except on this hill,
                            where a cool breeze was blowing. The ships on the sea and bay were
                            manytwinkling little lightsand the stars in the sky were as a great
                            army. "See how the floor of heaven is thick inlaid with patines
                            of bright gold," he quoted to himself. A door opened and
                            Suzanne came out of the library, which opened on to the veranda. He had
                            not expected to see her again, nor she him. The beauty of the night had
                            drawn her.
                        "Suzanne!" he said, when the door opened.
                        She looked at him, poised in uncertainty, her lovely white face glowing
                            like a pale phosphorescent light in the dark.
                        "Isn't it beautiful out here? Come, sit
                            down."
                        "No," she said. "I mustn't stay. It
                            is so beautiful!" She looked about her vaguely, nervously, and
                            then at him. "Oh, that breeze!" She turned up her nose
                            and sniffed eagerly.
                        "The music is still whirling in my head," he said,
                            coming to her. "I cannot get over tonight." He spoke
                            softlyalmost in a whisperand threw his cigar away. Suzanne's
                            voice was low.
                        She looked at him and filled her deep broad chest with air.
                            "Oh!" she sighed, throwing back her head, her neck
                            curving divinely.
                        "One more dance," he said, taking her right hand and
                            putting his left upon her waist.
                        She did not retreat from him, but looked half distrait, half entranced in
                            his eyes.
                        "Without music?" she asked. She was almost
                            trembling.
                        "You are music," he replied, her intense sense of
                            suffocation seizing him.
                        They moved a few paces to the left where there were no windows and where
                            no one could see. He drew her close to him and looked into her face, but
                            still he did not dare say what he thought. They moved about softly, and
                            then she gurgled that soft laugh that had entranced him from the first.
                            "What would people think?" she asked.
                        They walked to the railing, he still holding her hand, and then she
                            withdrew it. He was conscious of great dangerof jeopardizing a
                            wonderfully blissful relationship, and finally said: "Perhaps
                            we had better go."
                        "Yes," she said. "Ma-ma would be greatly
                            disturbed if she knew this."
                        
                        She walked ahead of him to the door.
                        "Good night," she whispered.
                        "Good night," he sighed.
                        He went back to his chair and meditated on the course he was pursuing.
                            This was a terrible risk. Should he go on? The flower-like face of
                            Suzanne came back to himher supple body, her wondrous grace and beauty.
                            "Oh, perhaps not, but what a loss, what a lure to have flaunted
                            in front of his eyes! Were there ever thoughts and feelings like these
                            in so young a body? Never, never, never, had he seen her like. Never in
                            all his experiences had he seen anything so exquisite. She was like the
                            budding woods in spring, like little white and blue flowers growing. If
                            life now for once would only be kind and give him her!
                        "Oh, Suzanne, Suzanne!" he breathed to himself,
                            lingering over the name.
                        For a fourth or a fifth time Eugene was imagining himself to be terribly,
                            eagerly, fearsomely in love.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER VI
                        THIS burst of emotion with its tentative understanding so subtly reached,
                            changed radically and completely the whole complexion of life for
                            Eugene. Once more now the spirit of youth had returned to him. He had
                            been resenting all this while, in spite of his success, the passage of
                            time, for he was daily and hourly growing older, and what had he really
                            achieved? The more Eugene had looked at life through the medium of his
                            experiences, the more it had dawned on him that somehow all effort was
                            pointless. To where and what did one attain when one attained success?
                            Was it for houses and lands and fine furnishings and friends that one
                            was really striving? Was there any such thing as real friendship in
                            life, and what were its fruitsintense satisfaction? In some few
                            instances, perhaps, but in the main what a sorry jest most so-called
                            friendships veiled! How often they were coupled with self-interest,
                            self-seeking, self-everything! We associated in friendship mostly only
                            with those who were of our own social station. A good friend. Did he
                            possess one? An inefficient friend? Would one such long be his friend?
                            Life moved in schools of those who could run a certain pace, maintain a
                            certain standard of appearances, compel a certain grade of respect and
                            efficiency in others. Colfax was his friendfor the present. So was
                            Winfield. About him were scores and hundreds who were apparently
                            delighted to grasp his hand, but for what? His fame? Certainly. His
                            efficiency? Yes. Only by the measure of his personal power and strength
                            could he measure his friendsno more.
                        And as for lovewhat had he ever had of love before? When he went back in
                            his mind, it seemed now that all, each, and every one, had been combined
                            in some way with lust and evil thinking. Could he say that he had ever
                            been in love truly? Certainly not with Margaret Duff or Ruby Kenny or
                            Angelathough that was the nearest he had come to true loveor Christina
                            Channing. He had liked all these women very much, as he had Carlotta
                            Wilson, but had he ever loved one? Never. Angela had won him through his
                            sympathy for her, he told himself now. He had been induced to marry out
                            of remorse. And here he was now having lived all these years and come
                            all this way without having truly loved. Now, behold Suzanne Dale with
                            her perfection of soul and body, and he was wild about her  not for lust, but for love. He wanted to
                            be with her, to hold her hands, to kiss her lips, to watch her smile;
                            but nothing more. It was true her body had its charm. In extremes it
                            would draw him, but the beauty of her mind and appearancethere lay the
                            fascination. He was heartsick at being compelled to be absent from her,
                            and yet he did not know that he would ever be able to attain her at
                            all.
                        As he thought of his condition, it rather terrified and nauseated him. To
                            think, after having known this one hour of wonder and superlative bliss,
                            of being compelled to come back into the work-a-day world! Nor were
                            things improving at the office of the United Magazines Corporation.
                            Instead of growing better, they were growing worse. With the diversity
                            of his interests, particularly the interest he held in the Sea Island
                            Realty and Construction Company, he was growing rather lackadaisical in
                            his attitude toward all magazine interests with which he was connected.
                            He had put in strong men wherever he could find them, but these had come
                            to be very secure in their places, working without very much regard to
                            him since he could not give them very much attention. White and Colfax
                            had become intimate with many of them personally. Some of them, such as
                            Hayes, the advertising man, the circulation manager, the editor of the
                                International Review, the editor in charge of
                            books, were so very able that, although it was true that Eugene had
                            hired them it was practically settled that they could not be removed.
                            Colfax and White had come to understand by degrees that Eugene was a
                            person who, however brilliant he might be in selecting men, was really
                            not capable of attention to detail. He could not bring his mind down to
                            small practical points. If he had been an owner, like Colfax, or a
                            practical henchman like White, he would have been perfectly safe, but
                            being a natural-born leader, or rather organizer, he was, unless he
                            secured control in the beginning, rather hopeless and helpless when
                            organization was completed. Others could attend to details better than
                            he could. Colfax came to know his men and like them. In absences which
                            had become more frequent, as Eugene became more secure, and as he took
                            up with Winfield, they had first gone to Colfax for advice, and later,
                            in Colfax's absence, to White. The latter received them with
                            open arms. Indeed, among themselves, his lieutenants frequently
                            discussed Eugene and agreed that in organizing, or rather reorganizing
                            the place, he had done his great work. He might have been worth
                            twenty-five thousand a year doing that, but hardly as a man to sit about
                            and cool his heels after the work was done. White had persistently
                            whispered  suggestions of
                            Eugene's commercial inefficiency for the task he was essaying
                            to Colfax. "He is really trying to do up there what you ought
                            to be doing," he told him, "and what you can do
                            better. You want to remember that you've learned a lot since
                            you came in here, and so has he, only he has become a little less
                            practical and you have become more so. These men of his look more to you
                            now than they do to him.
                        Colfax rejoiced in the thought. He liked Eugene, but he liked the idea
                            better that his business interests were perfectly safe. He did not like
                            to think that any one man was becoming so strong that his going would
                            injure him, and this thought for a long time during Eugene's
                            early ascendancy had troubled him. The latter had carried himself with
                            such an air. Eugene had fancied that Colfax needed to be impressed with
                            his importance, and this, in addition to his very thorough work, was one
                            way to do it. His manner had grated on Colfax after a time, for he was
                            the soul of vainglory himself, and he wanted no other gods in the place
                            beside himself. White, on the contrary, was constantly subservient and
                            advisory in his manner. It made a great difference.
                        By degrees, through one process and another, Eugene had lost ground, but
                            it was only in a nebulous way as yet, and not in anything tangible. If
                            he had never turned his attention to anything else, had never wearied of
                            any detail, and kept close to Colfax and to his own staff, he would have
                            been safe. As it was, he began now to neglect them more than ever, and
                            this could not fail to tell rather disastrously in the long run.
                        In the first place the prospects in connection with the Sea Island
                            Construction Company were apparently growing brighter and brighter. It
                            was one of those schemes which would take years and years to develop,
                            but it did not look that way at first. Rather it seemed to be showing
                            tangible evidences of accomplishment. The first year, after a good deal
                            of money had been invested, considerable dredging operations were
                            carried out, and dry land appeared in many placesa long stretch of good
                            earth to the rear of the main beach whereon hotels and resorts of all
                            sorts could be constructed. The boardwalk was started after a model
                            prepared by Eugene, and approvedafter modificationby the architect
                            engaged, and a portion of the future great dining and dancing casinos
                            was begun and completed, a beautiful building modeled on a combination
                            of the Moorish, Spanish and Old Mission styles. A notable improvement in
                            design had been effected in this scheme, for the color of Blue Sea,
                            according to Eugene's theory, was to be red, white, yellow,
                            blue, and green.  done in spirited yet
                            simple outlines. The walls of all buildings were to be white and yellow,
                            latticed with green. The roofs, porticos, lintels, piers, and steps were
                            to be red, yellow, green, and blue. There were to be round, shallow
                            Italian pools of concrete in many of the courts and interiors of the
                            houses. The hotels were to be western modifications of the Giralda in
                            Spain, each one a size smaller, or larger, than the other. Green spear
                            pines and tall cone-shaped poplars were to be the prevailing tree
                            decorations. The railroad, as Mr. Winfield promised, had already
                            completed its spur and Spanish depot, which was beautiful. It looked
                            truly as though Blue Sea would become what Winfield said it would
                            become; the seaside resort of America.
                        The actuality of this progress fascinated Eugene so much that he gave,
                            until Suzanne appeared, much more time than he really should have to the
                            development of the scheme. As in the days when he first went with
                            Summerfield, he worked of nights on exterior and interior layouts, as he
                            called themfaades, ground arrangements, island improvements, and so on.
                            He went frequently with Winfield and his architect in his auto to see
                            how Blue Sea was getting on and to visit monied men, who might be
                            interested. He drew up plans for ads and booklets, making romantic
                            sketches and originating catch lines.
                        In the next place, after Suzanne appeared, he began to pay attention
                            almost exclusively in his thoughts to her. He could not get her out of
                            his head night or day. She haunted his thoughts in the office, at home,
                            and in his dreams. He began actually to burn with a strange fever, which
                            gave him no rest. When would he see her again? When would he see her
                            again? When would he see her again? He could see her only as he danced
                            with her at the boat club, as he sat with her in the swing at Daleview.
                            It was a wild, aching desire which gave him no peace any more than any
                            other fever of the brain ever does.
                        Once, not long after he and she had danced at the boat club together, she
                            came with her mother to see how Angela was, and Eugene had a chance to
                            say a few words to her in the studio, for they came after five in the
                            afternoon when he was at home. Suzanne gazed at him wide-eyed, scarcely
                            knowing what to think, though she was fascinated. He asked her eagerly
                            where she had been, where she was going to be.
                        "Why," she said gracefully, her pretty lips parted,
                            "we're going to Bentwood Hadley's tomorrow.
                            We'll be there for a week, I fancy. Maybe longer."
                        "Have you thought of me much, Suzanne?'
                        
                        "Yes, yes! But you mustn't, Mr. Witla. No, no. I
                            don't know what to think."
                        "If I came to Bentwood Hadleys, would you be glad?"
                        "Oh, yes," she said hesitatingly, "but you
                            mustn't come."
                        Eugene was there that week-end. It wasn't difficult to
                            manage.
                        "I'm awfully tired," he wrote to Mrs. Hadley.
                            "Why don't you invite me out?"
                        "Come!" came a telegram, and he went.
                        On this occasion, he was more fortunate than ever. Suzanne was there, out
                            riding when he came, but, as he learned from Mrs. Hadley, there was a
                            dance on at a neighboring country club. Suzanne with a number of others
                            was going. Mrs. Dale decided to go, and invited Eugene. He seized the
                            offer, for he knew he would get a chance to dance with his ideal. When
                            they were going in to dinner, he met Suzanne in the hall.
                        "I am going with you," he said eagerly. "Save
                            a few dances for me."
                        "Yes," she said, inhaling her breath in a gasp.
                        They went, and he initialled her card in five places.
                        "We must be careful," she pleaded. "Ma-ma
                            won't like it."
                        He saw by this that she was beginning to understand, and would plot with
                            him. Why was he luring her on? Why did she let him?
                        When he slipped his arm about her in the first dance he said,
                            "At last!" And then: "I have waited for this
                            so long."
                        Suzanne made no reply.
                        "Look at me, Suzanne," he pleaded.
                        "I can't," she said.
                        "Oh, look at me," he urged, "once, please.
                            Look in my eyes."
                        "No, no," she begged, "I
                            can't."
                        "Oh, Suzanne," he exclaimed, "I am crazy about
                            you. I am mad. I have lost all reason. Your face is like a flower to me.
                            Your eyesI can't tell you about your eyes. Look at
                            me!"
                        "No," she pleaded.
                        "It seems as though the days will never end in which I do not
                            see you. I wait and wait. Suzanne, do I seem like a silly fool to
                            you?"
                        "No."
                        "I am counted sharp and able. They tell me I am brilliant. You
                            are the most perfect thing that I have ever known. I think of you awake
                            and asleep. I could paint a thousand pictures of you. My art seems to
                            come back to me through you. If I  live I
                            will paint you in a hundred ways. Have you ever seen the Rossetti
                            woman?"
                        "No."
                        "He painted a hundred portraits of her. I shall paint a thousand
                            of you."
                        She lifted her eyes to look at him shyly, wonderingly, drawn by this
                            terrific passion. His own blazed into hers. "Oh, look at me
                            again," he whispered, when she dropped them under the fire of
                            his glance.
                        "I can't," she pleaded.
                        "Oh, yes, once more."
                        She lifted her eyes and it seemed as though their souls would blend. He
                            felt dizzy, and Suzanne reeled.
                        "Do you love me, Suzanne?" he asked.
                        "I don't know," she trembled.
                        "Do you love me?"
                        "Don't ask me now."
                        The music ceased and Suzanne was gone.
                        He did not see her until much later, for she slipped away to think. Her
                            soul was stirred as with a raging storm. It seemed as though her very
                            soul was being torn up. She was tremulous, tumultuous, unsettled,
                            yearning, eager. She came back after a time and they danced again, but
                            she was calmer apparently. They went out on a balcony, and he contrived
                            to say a few words there.
                        "You mustn't," she pleaded. "I think
                            we are being watched."
                        He left her, and on the way home in the auto he whispered: "I
                            shall be on the west veranda tonight. Will you come?"
                        "I don't know, I'll try."
                        He walked leisurely to that place later when all was still, and sat down
                            to wait. Gradually the great house quieted. It was one and one-thirty,
                            and then nearly two before the door opened. A figure slipped out, the
                            lovely form of Suzanne, dressed as she had been at the ball, a veil of
                            lace over her hair.
                        "I'm so afraid," she said, "I
                            scarcely know what I am doing. Are you sure no one will see
                            us?"
                        "Let us walk down the path to the field." It was the
                            same way they had taken in the early spring when he had met her here
                            before. In the west hung low a waning moon, yellow, sickle shaped, very
                            large because of the hour.
                        "Do you remember when we were here before?"
                        "Yes."
                        "I loved you then. Did you care for me?"
                        "No"
                        
                        They walked on under the trees, he holding her hand.
                        "Oh, this night, this night," he said, the strain of
                            his intense emotion wearying him.
                        They came out from under the trees at the end of the path. There was a
                            sense of August dryness in the air. It was warm, sensuous. About were
                            the sounds of insects, faint bumblings, cracklings. A tree toad chirped,
                            or a bird cried.
                        "Come to me, Suzanne," he said at last when they
                            emerged into the full light of the moon at the end of the path and
                            paused. "Come to me." He slipped his arm about
                            her.
                        "No," she said. "No."
                        "Look at me, Suzanne," he pleaded; "I want to
                            tell you how much I love you. Oh, I have no words. It seems ridiculous
                            to try to tell you. Tell me that you love me, Suzanne. Tell me now. I am
                            crazy with love of you. Tell me."
                        "No," she said, "I
                            can't."
                        "Kiss me!"
                        "No!"
                        He drew her to him and turned her face up by her chin in spite of her.
                            "Open your eyes," he pleaded. "Oh, God! That
                            this should come to me! Now I could die. Life can hold no more. Oh,
                            Flower Face! Oh, Silver Feet! Oh, Myrtle Bloom! Divine Fire! How perfect
                            you are. How perfect! And to think you love me!"
                        He kissed her eagerly.
                        "Kiss me, Suzanne. Tell me that you love me. Tell me. Oh, how I
                            love that name, Suzanne. Whisper to me you love me."
                        "No."
                        "But you do."
                        "No."
                        "Look at me, Suzanne. Flower face. Myrtle Bloom. For
                            God's sake, look at me! You love me."
                        "Oh, yes, yes, yes," she sobbed of a sudden, throwing
                            her arm around his neck. "Oh, yes, yes."
                        "Don't cry," he pleaded. "Oh, sweet,
                            don't cry. I am mad for love of you, mad. Kiss me now, one
                            kiss. I am staking my soul on your love. Kiss me!"
                        He pressed his lips to hers, but she burst away, terror-stricken.
                        "Oh, I am so frightened," she exclaimed all at once.
                            "Oh, what shall I do? I am so afraid. Oh, please, please.
                            Something terrifies me. Something scares me. Oh, what am I going to do?
                            Let me go back."
                        
                        She was white and trembling. Her hands were nervously clasping and
                            unclasping.
                        Eugene smoothed her arm soothingly. "Be still,
                            Suzanne," he said. "Be still. I shall say no more. You
                            are all right. I have frightened you. We will go back. Be calm. You are
                            all right."
                        He recovered his own poise with an effort because of her obvious terror,
                            and led her back under the trees. To reassure her he drew his cigar case
                            from his pocket and pretended to select a cigar. When he saw her
                            calming, he put it back.
                        "Are you quieter now, sweet?" he asked, tenderly.
                        "Yes, but let us go back."
                        "Listen. I will only go as far as the edge. You go alone. I will
                            watch you safely to the door."
                        "Yes," she said peacefully.
                        "And you really love me, Suzanne?"
                        "Oh, yes, but don't speak of it. Not tonight. You will
                            frighten me again. Let us go back."
                        They strolled on. Then he said: "One kiss, sweet, in parting.
                            One. Life has opened anew for me. You are the solvent of my whole being.
                            You are making me over into something different. I feel as though I had
                            never lived until now. Oh, this experience! It is such a wonderful thing
                            to have doneto have lived through, to have changed as I have changed.
                            You have changed me so completely, made me over into the artist again.
                            From now on I can paint again. I can paint you." He scarcely
                            knew what he was saying. He felt as though he were revealing himself to
                            himself as in an apocalyptic vision.
                        She let him kiss her, but she was too frightened and wrought to even
                            breathe right. She was intense, emotional, strange. She did not really
                            understand what it was that he was talking about.
                        "Tomorrow," he said, "at the wood's
                            edge. Tomorrow. Sweet dreams. I shall never know peace any more without
                            your love."
                        And he watched her eagerly, sadly, bitterly, ecstatically, as she walked
                            lightly from him, disappearing like a shadow through the dark and silent
                            door.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER VII.
                        IT would be impossible to describe even in so detailed an account as this
                            the subtleties, vagaries, beauties and terrors of the emotions which
                            seized upon him, and which by degrees began also to possess Suzanne,
                            once he became wholly infatuated with her. Mrs. Dale, was, after a
                            social fashion, one of Eugene's best friends. She had since she
                            had first come to know him spread his fame far and wide as an immensely
                            clever publisher and editor, an artist of the greatest power, and a man
                            of lovely and delightful ideas and personal worth. He knew from various
                            conversations with her that Suzanne was the apple of her eye. He had
                            heard her talk, had, in fact, discussed with her the difficulties of
                            rearing a simple mannered, innocent-minded girl in present day society.
                            She had confided to him that it had been her policy to give Suzanne the
                            widest liberty consistent with good-breeding and current social
                            theories. She did not want to make her bold or unduly self-reliant, and
                            yet she wanted her to be free and natural. Suzanne, she was convinced,
                            from long observation and many frank conversations, was innately honest,
                            truthful and clean-minded. She did not understand her exactly, for what
                            mother can clearly understand any child; but she thought she read her
                            well enough to know that she was in some indeterminate way forceful and
                            able, like her father, and that she would naturally gravitate to what
                            was worth while in life.
                        Had she any talent? Mrs. Dale really did not know. The girl had vague
                            yearnings toward something which was anything but social in its quality.
                            She did not care anything at all for most of the young men and women she
                            met. She went about a great deal, but it was to ride and drive. Games of
                            chance did not interest her. Drawing-room conversations were amusing to
                            her, but not gripping. She liked interesting characters, able books,
                            striking pictures. She had been particularly impressed with those of
                            Eugene's; she had seen and had told her mother that they were
                            wonderful. She loved poetry of high order, and was possessed of a
                            boundless appetite for the ridiculous and the comic. An unexpected faux
                            pas was apt to throw her into uncontrollable fits of laughter and the
                            funny page selections of the current newspaper artists, when she could
                            obtain them, amused her intensely. She was a student of character, and
                            of her own mother, and was beginning to see clearly what were  the motives that were prompting her
                            mother in her attitude toward herself, quite as clearly as that person
                            did herself and better. At bottom she was more talented than her mother,
                            but in a different way. She was not, as yet, as self-controlled, or as
                            understanding of current theories and beliefs as her mother, but she was
                            artistic, emotional, excitable, in an intellectual way, and capable of
                            high flights of fancy and of intense and fine appreciations. Her really
                            sensuous beauty was nothing to her. She did not value it highly. She
                            knew she was beautiful, and that men and boys were apt to go wild about
                            her, but she did not care. They must not be so silly, she thought. She
                            did not attempt to attract them in any way. On the contrary, she avoided
                            every occasion of possible provocation. Her mother had told her plainly
                            how susceptible men were, how little their promises meant, how careful
                            she must be of her looks and actions. In consequence, she went her way
                            as gaily and yet as inoffensively as she could, trying to avoid the
                            sadness of entrancing anyone hopelessly and wondering what her career
                            was to be. Then Eugene appeared.
                        With his arrival, Suzanne had almost unconsciously entered upon a new
                            phase of her existence. She had seen all sorts of men in society, but
                            those who were exclusively social were exceedingly wearisome to her. She
                            had heard her mother say that it was an important thing to marry money
                            and some man of high social standing, but who this man was to be and
                            what he was to be like she did not know. She did not look upon the
                            typical society men she had encountered as answering suitably to the
                            term high. She had seen some celebrated wealthy men of influential
                            families, but they did not appear to her really human enough to be
                            considered. Most of them were cold, self-opinionated, ultra-artificial
                            to her easy, poetic spirit. In the realms of real distinction were many
                            men whom the papers constantly talked about, financiers, politicians,
                            authors, editors, scientists, some of whom were in society, she
                            understood, but most of whom were not. She had met a few of them as a
                            girl might. Most of those she met, or saw, were old and cold and paid no
                            attention to her whatever. Eugene had appeared trailing an atmosphere of
                            distinction and acknowledged ability and he was young. He was good
                            looking, toolaughing and gay. It seemed almost impossible at first to
                            her that one so young and smiling should be so able, as her mother said.
                            Afterwards, when she came to know him, she began to feel that he was
                            more than able; that he could do anything he pleased. She had visited
                            him once in his office, accompanied by her mother, and she had been
                            vastly  impressed by the great building,
                            its artistic finish, Eugene's palatial surroundings. Surely he
                            was the most remarkable young man she had ever known. Then came his
                            incandescent attentions to her, his glowing, radiant presence and
                            then
                        Eugene speculated deeply on how he should proceed. All at once, after
                            this night, the whole problem of his life came before him. He was
                            married; he was highly placed socially, better than he had ever been
                            before. He was connected closely with Colfax, so closely that he feared
                            him, for Colfax, in spite of certain emotional vagaries of which Eugene
                            knew, was intensely conventional. Whatever he did was managed in the
                            most offhand way and with no intention of allowing his home life to be
                            affected or disrupted. Winfield, whom also Mrs. Dale knew, was also
                            conventional to outward appearances. He had a mistress, but she was held
                            tightly in check, he understood. Eugene had seen her at the new casino,
                            or a portion of it, the East Wing, recently erected at Blue Sea, and he
                            had been greatly impressed with her beauty. She was smart, daring,
                            dashing. Eugene looked at her then, wondering if the time would ever
                            come when he could dare an intimacy of that character. So many married
                            men did. Would he ever attempt it and succeed?
                        Now that he had met Suzanne, however, he had a different notion of all
                            this, and it had come over him all at once. Heretofore in his dreams, he
                            had fancied he might strike up an emotional relationship somewhere which
                            would be something like Winfield's towards Miss De Kalb, as she
                            was known, and so satisfy the weary longing that was in him for
                            something new and delightful in the way of a sympathetic relationship
                            with beauty. Since seeing Suzanne, he wanted nothing of this, but only
                            some readjustment or rearrangement of his life whereby he could have
                            Suzanne and Suzanne only. Suzanne! Suzanne! Oh, that dream of beauty.
                            How was he to obtain her, how free his life of all save a beautiful
                            relationship with her? He could live with her forever and ever. He
                            could, he could! Oh, this vision, this dream!
                        It was the Sunday following the dance that Suzanne and Eugene managed to
                            devise another day together, which, though, it was one of those
                            semi-accidental, semi-voiceless, but nevertheless not wholly thoughtless
                            coincidences which sometimes come about without being wholly agreed upon
                            or understood in the beginning, was nevertheless seized upon by them,
                            accepted silently and semi-consciously, semi-unconsciously worked out
                            together. Had they not been very strongly drawn to each other by now,
                                 this would not have happened at all.
                            But they enjoyed it none the less. To begin with, Mrs. Dale was
                            suffering from a sick headache the morning after. In the next place,
                            Kinroy suggested to his friends to go for a lark to South Beach, which
                            was one of the poorest and scrubbiest of all the beaches on Staten
                            Island. In the next place, Mrs. Dale suggested that Suzanne be allowed
                            to go and that perhaps Eugene would be amused. She rather trusted him as
                            a guide and mentor.
                        Eugene said calmly that he did not object. He was eager to be anywhere
                            alone with Suzanne, and he fancied that some opportunity would present
                            itself whereby once they were there, they could be together, but he did
                            not want to show it. Once more the car was called and they departed,
                            being let off at one end of a silly panorama which stretched its shabby
                            length for a mile along the shore. The chauffeur took the car back to
                            the house, it being agreed that they could reach him by phone. The party
                            started down the plank walk, but almost immediately, because of
                            different interests, divided. Eugene and Suzanne stopped to shoot at a
                            shooting gallery. Next they stopped at a cane rack to ring canes.
                            Anything was delightful to Eugene which gave him an opportunity to
                            observe his inamorata, to see her pretty face, her smile, and to hear
                            her heavenly voice. She rung a cane for him. Every gesture of hers was
                            perfection; every look a thrill of delight. He was walking in some
                            elysian realm which had nothing to do with the tawdry evidence of life
                            about him.
                        They followed the boardwalk southward, after a ride in the
                            Devil's Whirlpool, for by now Suzanne was caught in the
                            persuasive subtlety of his emotion and could no more do as her honest
                            judgment would have dictated than she could have flown. It needed some
                            shock, some discovery to show her whither she was drifting and this was
                            absent. They came to a new dance hall, where a few servant girls and
                            their sweethearts were dancing, and for a lark Eugene proposed that they
                            should enter. They danced together again, and though the surroundings
                            were so poor and the music wretched, Eugene was in heaven.
                        "Let's run away and go to the Terra-Marine,"
                            he suggested, thinking of a hotel farther south along the shore.
                            "It is so pleasant there. This is all so cheap."
                        "Where is it?" asked Suzanne.
                        "Oh, about three miles south of here. We could almost walk
                            there."
                        He looked down the long hot beach, but changed his mind.
                        "I don't mind this," said Suzanne.
                            "It's so very bad that 
                            it's good, you know. I like to see how these people enjoy
                            themselves."
                        "But it is so bad," argued Eugene. "I wish I
                            had your live, healthy attitude toward things. Still we won't
                            go if you don't want to."
                        Suzanne paused, thinking. Should she run away with him? The others would
                            be looking for them. No doubt they were already wondering where they had
                            gone. Still it didn't make so much difference. Her mother
                            trusted her with Eugene. They could go.
                        "Well," she said finally, "I don't
                            care. Let's."
                        "What will the others think?" he said doubtfully.
                        "Oh, they won't mind," she said.
                            "When they're ready, they'll call the car.
                            They know that I am with you. They know that I can get the car when I
                            want it. Mama won't mind."
                        Eugene led the way back to a train which ran to Hugenot, their
                            destination. He was beside himself with the idea of a day all alone with
                            Suzanne. He did not stay to consider or give ear to a thought concerning
                            Angela at home or how Mrs. Dale would view it. Nothing would come of it.
                            It was not an outrageous adventure. They took the train south, and in a
                            little while were in another world, on the veranda of a hotel that
                            overlooked the sea. There were numerous autos of idlers like themselves
                            in a court before the hotel. There was a great grassy lawn with swings
                            covered by striped awnings of red and blue and green, and beyond that a
                            pier with many little white launches anchored near. The sea was as
                            smooth as glass and great steamers rode in the distance trailing lovely
                            plumes of smoke. The sun was blazing hot, brilliant, but here on the
                            cool porch waiters were serving pleasure lovers with food and drink. A
                            quartette of negroes were singing. Suzanne and Eugene seated themselves
                            in rockers at first to view the perfect day and later went down and sat
                            in a swing. Unthinkingly, without words, these two were gradually
                            gravitating toward each other under some spell which had no relationship
                            to everyday life. Suzanne looked at him in the double seated swing where
                            they sat facing each other and they smiled or jested aimlessly, voicing
                            nothing of all the upward welling deep that was stirring within.
                        "Was there ever such a day?" said Eugene finally, and
                            in a voice that was filled with extreme yearning. "See that
                            steamer out there. It looks like a little toy."
                        "Yes," said Suzanne with a little gasp. She inhaled her
                                 breath as she pronounced this word
                            which gave it an airy breathlessness which had a touch of demure pathos
                            in it. "Oh, it is perfect."
                        "Your hair," he said. "You don't know
                            how nice you look. You fit this scene exactly."
                        "Don't speak of me," she pleaded. "I
                            look so tousled. The wind in the train blew my hair so I ought to go the
                            ladies' dressing room and hunt up a maid."
                        "Stay here," said Eugene. "Don't go.
                            It is all so lovely."
                        "I won't now. I wish we might always sit here. You,
                            just as you are there, and I here."
                        "Did you ever read the "Ode on a Grecian
                            Urn'?"
                        "Yes."
                        "Do you remember the lines `Fair youth, beneath the trees, thou
                            canst not leave'?"
                        "Yes, yes," she answered ecstatically.
                        
                            "'Bold lover, never, never canst thou
                                kiss
                            Though winning near the goalyet, do not grieve;
                            She cannot fade, though thou hast not thy bliss,
                            For ever wilt thou love and she be
                                fair.'"
                        
                        "Don't, don't," she pleaded.
                        He understood. The pathos of that great thought was too much for her. It
                            hurt her as it did him. What a mind!
                        They rocked and swung idly, he pushing with his feet at times in which
                            labor she joined him. They strolled up the beach and sat down on a green
                            clump of grass overlooking the sea. Idlers approached and passed. He
                            laid his arm to her waist and held her hand, but something in her mood
                            stayed him from any expression. Through dinner at the hotel it was the
                            same and on the way to the train, for she wanted to walk through the
                            dark. Under some tall trees, though, in the rich moonlight prevailing,
                            he pressed her hand.
                        "Oh, Suzanne," he said.
                        "No, no," she breathed, drawing back.
                        "Oh, Suzanne," he repeated, "may I tell
                            you?"
                        "No, no," she answered. "Don't speak
                            to me. Please don't. Let's just walk. You and
                            I."
                        He hushed, for her voice, though sad and fearsome, was imperious. He
                            could not do less than obey this mood.
                        They went to a little country farmhouse which ranged along the track in
                            lieu of a depot, and sang a quaint air from some old-time comic
                            opera.
                        
                        Do you remember the first time when you came to play tennis with
                            me?" he asked.
                        "Yes."
                        "Do you know I felt a strange vibration before your coming and
                            all during your playing. Did you?"
                        "Yes."
                        "What is that, Suzanne?"
                        "I don't know."
                        "Don't you want to know?"
                        "No, no, Mr. Witla, not now."
                        "Mr. Witla?"
                        "It must be so."
                        "Oh, Suzanne!"
                        "Let's just think," she pleaded, "it
                            is so beautiful."
                        They came to a station near Daleview, and walked over. On the way he
                            slipped his arm about her waist, but, oh, so lightly.
                        "Suzanne," he asked, with a terrible yearning ache in
                            his heart, "do you blame me? Can you?"
                        "Don't ask me," she pleaded, "not
                            now. No, no."
                        He tried to press her a little more closely.
                        "Not now. I don't blame you."
                        He stopped as they neared the lawn and entered the house with a jesting
                            air. Explanations about mixing in the crowd and getting lost were easy.
                            Mrs. Dale smiled good naturedly. Suzanne went to her room.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER VIII
                        HAVING involved himself thus far, seized upon and made his own this
                            perfect flower of life, Eugene had but one thought, and that was to
                            retain it. Now, of a sudden, had fallen from him all the weariness of
                            years. To be in love again. To be involved in such a love, so wonderful,
                            so perfect, so exquisite, it did not seem that life could really be so
                            gracious as to have yielded him so much. What did it all mean, his
                            upward rise during all these years? There had been seemingly but one
                            triumph after another since the bitter days in Riverwood and after. The
                                World, Summerfield's, The Kalvin Company,
                            The United Magazine Corporation, Winfield, his beautiful apartment on
                            the drive. Surely the gods were good. What did they mean? To give him
                            fame, fortune and Suzanne into the bargain? Could such a thing really
                            be? How could it be worked out? Would fate conspire and assist him so
                            that he could be free of Angelaor
                        The thought of Angela to him in these days was a great pain. At bottom
                            Eugene really did not dislike her, he never had. Years of living with
                            her had produced an understanding and a relationship as strong and as
                            keen as it might well be in some respects. Angela had always fancied
                            since the Riverwood days that she really did not love Eugene truly any
                            morecould not, that he was too self-centered and selfish; but this on
                            her part was more of an illusion than a reality. She did care for him in
                            an unselfish way from one point of view, in that she would sacrifice
                            everything to his interests. From another point of view it was wholly
                            selfish, for she wanted him to sacrifice everything for her in return.
                            This he was not willing to do and had never been. He considered that his
                            life was a larger thing than could be encompassed by any single
                            matrimonial relationship. He wanted freedom of action and companionship,
                            but he was afraid of Angela, afraid of society, in a way afraid of
                            himself and what positive liberty might do to him. He felt sorry for
                            Angelafor the intense suffering she would endure if he forced her in
                            some way to release himand at the same time he felt sorry for himself.
                            The lure of beauty had never for one moment during all these years of
                            upward mounting effort been stilled.
                        It is curious how things seem to conspire at times to produce  a climax. One would think that tragedies
                            like plants and flowers are planted as seeds and grow by various means
                            and aids to a terrible maturity. Roses of hell are some lives, and they
                            shine with all the lustre of infernal fires.
                        In the first place Eugene now began to neglect his office work
                            thoroughly, for he could not fix his mind upon it any more than he could
                            upon the affairs of the Sea Island Company, or upon his own home and
                            Angela's illness. The morning after his South Beach experience
                            with Suzanne and her curious reticence, he saw her for a little while
                            upon the veranda of Daleview. She was not seemingly depressed, or at
                            least, not noticeably so, and yet there was a gravity about her which
                            indicated that a marked impression of some kind had been made upon her
                            soul. She looked at him with wide frank eyes as she came out to him
                            purposely to tell him that she was going with her mother and some
                            friends to Tarrytown for the day.
                        "I have to go," she said. "Mamma has arranged
                            it by phone."
                        "Then I won't see you any more here?"
                        "No."
                        "Do you love me, Suzanne?"
                        "Oh, yes, yes," she declared, and walked wearily to an
                            angle of the wall where they could not be seen.
                        He followed her quickly, cautiously.
                        "Kiss me," he said, and she put her lips to his in a
                            distraught frightened way. Then she turned and walked briskly off and he
                            admired the robust swinging of her body. She was not tall, like himself,
                            or small like Angela, but middle sized, full bodied, vigorous. He
                            imagined now that she had a powerful soul in her, capable of great
                            things, full of courage and strength. Once she was a little older, she
                            would be very forceful and full of strong, direct thought.
                        He did not see her again for nearly ten days, and by that time he was
                            nearly desperate. He was wondering all the time how he was to arrange
                            this. He could not go on in this haphazard way, seeing her occasionally.
                            Why she might leave town for the fall a little later and then what would
                            he do? If her mother heard she would take her off to Europe and then
                            would Suzanne forget? What a tragedy that would be! No, before that
                            should happen, he would run away with her. He would realize all his
                            investments and get away. He could not live without her. He must have
                            her at any cost. What did the United Magazine Corporation amount to,
                            anyway? He was tired of that work. Angela might have the Sea Island
                            Realty Company's  stock, if he
                            could not dispose of it advantageously, or if he could, he would make
                            provision for her out of what he should receive. He had some ready
                            moneya few thousand dollars. This and his arthe could still paintwould
                            sustain them. He would go to England with Suzanne, or to France. They
                            would be happy if she really loved him and he thought she did. All this
                            old life could go its way. It was a dreary thing, anyhow, without love.
                            These were his first thoughts.
                        Later, he came to have different ones, but this was after he had talked
                            to Suzanne again. It was a difficult matter to arrange. In a fit of
                            desperation he called up Dalevie one day, and asked if Miss Suzanne Dale
                            was there. A servant answered, and in answer to the "who shall
                            I say" he gave the name of a young man that he knew Suzanne
                            knew. When she answered he said: "Listen, Suzanne! Can you hear
                            very well?"
                        "Yes."
                        "Do you recognize my voice?"
                        "Yes."
                        "Please don't pronounce my name, will
                            you?"
                        "No."
                        "Suzanne, I am crazy to see you. It has been ten days now. Are
                            you going to be in town long?"
                        "I don't know. I think so."
                        "If anyone comes near you, Suzanne, simply hang up the receiver,
                            and I will understand."
                        "Yes."
                        "If I came anywhere near your house in a car, could you come out
                            and see me?"
                        "I don't know."
                        "Oh, Suzanne!"
                        "I'm not sure. I'll try. What
                            time?"
                        "Do you know where the old fort road is, at Crystal Lake, just
                            below you?"
                        "Yes."
                        "Do you know where the ice house is near the road
                            there?"
                        "Yes."
                        "Could you come there?"
                        "What time?"
                        "At eleven tomorrow morning or two this afternoon or
                            three."
                        "I might at two today."
                        "Oh, thank you for that. I'll wait for you,
                            anyhow."
                        "All right. Good-bye."
                        And she hung up the receiver.
                        
                        Eugene rejoiced at the fortunate outcome of this effort without thinking
                            at first of the capable manner in which she had handled the situation.
                            Truly he said afterwards she must be very courageous to think so
                            directly and act so quickly, for it must have been very trying to her.
                            This love of his was so new. Her position was so very difficult. And
                            yet, on this first call when she had been suddenly put in touch with
                            him, she had shown no signs of trepidation. Her voice had been firm and
                            even, much more so than his, for he was nervously excited. She had taken
                            in the situation at once and fallen into the ruse quite readily. Was she
                            as simple as she seemed? Yes and no. She was simply capable, he thought
                            and her capability had acted through her simplicity instantly.
                        At two the same day Eugene was there. He gave as an excuse to his
                            secretary that he was going out for a business conference with a
                            well-known author whose book he wished to obtain, and, calling a closed
                            auto, but one not his own, journeyed to the rendezvous. He asked the man
                            to drive down the road, making runs of half a mile to and fro while he
                            sat in the shade of a clump of trees out of view of the road. Presently
                            Suzanne came, bright and fresh as the morning, beautiful in a light
                            purple walking costume of masterly design. She had on a large soft
                            brimmed hat with long feathers of the same shade which became her
                            exquisitely. She walked with an air of grace and freedom, and yet when
                            he looked into her eyes, he saw a touch of trouble there.
                        "At last?" he said signaling her and smiling.
                            "Come in here. My car is just up the road. Don't you
                            think we had better get in? It's closed. We might be seen. How
                            long can you stay?"
                        He took her in his arms and kissed her eagerly while she explained that
                            she could not stay long. She had said she was going to the library,
                            which her mother had endowed, for a book. She must be there by half past
                            three or four at the least.
                        "Oh, we can talk a great deal by then," he said gaily.
                            "Here comes the car. Let's get in."
                        He looked cautiously about, hailed it, and they stepped in quickly as it
                            drew up.
                        "Perth Amboy," said Eugene, and they were off at high
                            speed.
                        Once in the car all was perfect, for they could not be seen. He drew the
                            shades partially and took her in his arms.
                        "Oh, Suzanne," he said, "how long it has
                            seemed. How very long. Do you love me?"
                        
                        "Yes, you know I do."
                        "Suzanne, how shall we arrange this? Are you going away soon? I
                            must see you oftener."
                        "I don't know," she said. "I
                            don't know what mama is thinking of doing. I know she wants to
                            go up to Lenox in the fall."
                        "Oh, Pshaw!" commented Eugene wearily.
                        "Listen, Mr. Witla," said Suzanne thoughtfully.
                            "You know we are running a terrible risk. What if Mrs. Witla
                            should find out, or mama? It would be terrible."
                        "I know it," said Eugene. "I suppose I ought
                            not to be acting in this way. But, oh, Suzanne, I am wild about you. I
                            am not myself any longer. I don't know what I am. I only know
                            that I love you, love you, love you!"
                        He gathered her in his arms and kissed her ecstatically. "How
                            sweet you look. How beautiful you are. Oh, flower face! Myrtle Bloom!
                            Angel Eyes! Divine Fire!" He hugged her in a long silent
                            embrace, the while the car sped on.
                        "But what about us?" she asked, wide-eyed.
                            "You know we are running a terrible risk. I was just thinking
                            this morning when you called me up. It's dangerous, you
                            know."
                        "Are you becoming sorry, Suzanne?"
                        "No."
                        "Do you love me?"
                        "You know I do."
                        "Then you will help me figure this out?"
                        "I want to. But listen, Mr. Witla, now listen to me. I want to
                            tell you something." She was very solemn and quaint and sweet
                            in this mood.
                        "I will listen to anything, baby mine, but don't call
                            me Mr. Witla. Call me Eugene, will you?"
                        "Well, now, listen to me, Mr.Mr.Eugene."
                        "Not Mr. Eugene, just Eugene. Now say it. Eugene," he
                            quoted his own name to her.
                        "Now listen to me, Mr.now, listen to me, Eugene," she
                            at last forced herself to say, and Eugene stopped her lips with his
                            mouth.
                        "There," he said.
                        "Now listen to me," she went on urgently, "you
                            know I am afraid mama will be terribly angry if she finds this
                            out."
                        "Oh, will she?" interrupted Eugene jocosely.
                        Suzanne paid no attention to him.
                        "We have to be very careful. She likes you so much now that if
                            she doesn't come across anything direct, she will never  think of anything. She was talking about
                            you only this morning."
                        "What was she saying?"
                        "Oh, what a nice man you are, and how able you
                            are."
                        "Oh, nothing like that," replied Eugene jestingly.
                        "Yes, she did. And I think Mrs. Witla likes me. I can meet you
                            sometimes when I'm there, but we must be so careful. I
                            mustn't stay out long today. I want to think things out, too.
                            You know I'm having a real hard time thinking about
                            this."
                        Eugene smiled. Her innocence was so delightful to him, so nave.
                        "What do you mean by thinking things out, Suzanne?"
                            asked Eugene curiously. He was interested in the workings of her young
                            mind, which seemed so fresh and wonderful to him. It was so delightful
                            to find this paragon of beauty so responsive, so affectionate and
                            helpful and withal so thoughtful. She was somewhat like a delightful toy
                            to him, and he held her as reverently in awe as though she were a
                            priceless vase.
                        "You know I want to think what I'm doing. I have to. It
                            seems so terrible to me at times and yet you know, you
                            know"
                        "I know what?" he asked, when she paused.
                        "I don't know why I shouldn't if I want toif I
                            love you."
                        Eugene looked at her curiously. This attempt at analysis of life,
                            particularly in relation to so trying and daring a situation as this,
                            astonished him. He had fancied Suzanne more or less thoughtless and
                            harmless as yet, big potentially, but uncertain and vague. Here she was
                            thinking about this most difficult problem almost more directly than he
                            was and apparently with more courage. He was astounded, but more than
                            that, intensely interested. What had become of her terrific fright of
                            ten days before? What was it she was thinking about exactly?
                        "What a curious girl you are," he said.
                        "Why am I?" she asked.
                        "Because you are. I didn't think you could think so
                            keenly yet. I thought you would some day. But, how have you reasoned
                            this out?"
                        "Did you ever read 'Anna Karnina'?"
                            she asked him meditatively.
                        "Yes," he said, wondering that she should have read it
                            at her age.
                        "What did you think of that?"
                        
                        "Oh, it shows what happens, as a rule, when you fly in the face
                            of convention," he said easily, wondering at the ability of her
                            brain.
                        "Do you think things must happen that way?"
                        "No, I don't think they must happen that way. There are
                            lots of cases where people do go against the conventions and succeed. I
                            don't know. It appears to be all a matter of time and chance.
                            Some do and some don't. If you are strong enough or clever
                            enough to 'get away with it,' as they say, you will.
                            If you aren't, you won't. What makes you
                            ask?"
                        "Well," she said, pausing, her lips parted, her eyes
                            fixed on the floor, "I was thinking that it needn't
                            necessarily be like that, do you think? It could be
                            different?"
                        "Yes, it could be," he said thoughtfully, wondering if
                            it really could.
                        "Because if it couldn't," she went on,
                            "the price would be too high. It isn't worth
                            while."
                        "You mean, you mean," he said, looking at her,
                            "that you would." He was thinking that she was
                            deliberately contemplating making a sacrifice of herself for him.
                            Something in her thoughtful, self-debating, meditative manner made him
                            think so.
                        Suzanne looked out of the window and slowly nodded her head.
                            "Yes," she said, solemnly, "if it could be
                            arranged. Why not? I don't see why."
                        Her face was a perfect blossom of beauty, as she spoke. Eugene wondered
                            whether he was waking or sleeping. Suzanne reasoning so! Suzanne reading
                            "Anna Karnina" and philosophizing so! Basing a course
                            of action on theorizing in connection with books and life, and in the
                            face of such terrible evidence as "Anna Karnina"
                            presented to the contrary of this proposition. Would wonders ever
                            cease?
                        "You know," she said after a time, "I think
                            mama wouldn't mind, Eugene. She likes you. I've heard
                            her say so lots of times. Besides I've heard her talk this way
                            about other people. She thinks people oughtn't to marry unless
                            they love each other very much. I don't think she thinks
                            it's necessary for people to marry at all unless they want to.
                            We might live together if we wished, you know."
                        Eugene himself had heard Mrs. Dale question the marriage system, but only
                            in a philosophic way. He did not take much stock in her social
                            maunderings. He did not know what she might be privately saying to
                            Suzanne, but he did not believe it could be very radical, or at least
                            seriously so.
                        "Don't you take any stock in what your mother says,
                            Suzanne,  he observed, studying her pretty
                            face. "She doesn't mean it, at least, she
                            doesn't mean it as far as you are concerned. She's
                            merely talking. If she thought anything were going to happen to you,
                            she'd change her mind pretty quick."
                        "No, I don't think so," replied Suzanne
                            thoughtfully. "You know, I think I know mama better than she
                            knows herself. She always talks of me as a little girl, but I can rule
                            her in lots of things. I've done it."
                        Eugene stared at Suzanne in amazement. He could scarcely believe his
                            ears. She was beginning so early to think so deeply on the social and
                            executive sides of life. Why should her mind by trying to dominate her
                            mother's?
                        "Suzanne," he observed, "you must be careful
                            what you do or say. Don't rush into talking of this pellmell.
                            It's dangerous. I love you, but we shall have to go slow. If
                            Mrs. Witla should learn of this, she would be crazy. If your mother
                            should suspect, she would take you away to Europe somewhere, very
                            likely. Then I wouldn't get to see you at all."
                        "Oh, no, she wouldn't," replied Suzanne
                            determinedly. "You know, I know mama better than you think I
                            do. I can rule her, I tell you. I know I can. I've done
                            it."
                        She tossed her head in an exquisitely pretty way which upset
                            Eugene's reasoning faculties. He could not think and look at
                            her.
                        "Suzanne," he said, drawing her to him. "You
                            are exquisite, extreme, the last word in womanhood for me. To think of
                            your reasoning soyou, Suzanne."
                        "Why, why," she asked, with pretty parted lips and
                            uplifted eyebrows, "why shouldn't I
                            think?"
                        "Oh, yes, certainly, we all do, but not so deeply, necessarily,
                            Flower Face."
                        "Well, we must think now," she said simply.
                        "Yes, we must think now," he replied; "would
                            you really share a studio with me if I were to take one? I
                            don't know of any other way quite at present."
                        "I would, if I knew how to manage it," she replied.
                            "Mama is queer. She's so watchful. She thinks
                            I'm a child and you know I am not at all. I don't
                            understand mama. She talks one thing and does another. I would rather do
                            and not talk. Don't you think so?" He stared.
                            "Still, I think I can fix it. Leave it to me."
                        "And if you can you'll come to me?"
                        "Oh, yes, yes," exclaimed Suzanne ecstatically, turning
                            to  him all at once and catching his face
                            between her hands. "Oh!"she looked into his eyes and
                            dreamed.
                        "But we must be careful," he cautioned. "We
                            musn't do anything rash."
                        "I won't," said Suzanne.
                        "And I won't, of course," he replied.
                        They paused again while he watched her.
                        "I might make friends with Mrs. Witla," she observed,
                            after a time. "She likes me, doesn't
                            she?"
                        "Yes," said Eugene.
                        "Mama doesn't object to my going up there, and I could
                            let you know."
                        "That's all right. Do that," said Eugene.
                            "Oh, please do, if you can. Did you notice whose name I used
                            today?"
                        "Yes," she said. "You know Mr. Witla, Eugene,
                            I thought you might call me up?"
                        "Did you?" he asked, smiling.
                        "Yes."
                        "You give me courage, Suzanne," he said, drawing close
                            to her. "You're so confident, so apparently carefree.
                            The world hasn't touched your spirit."
                        "When I'm away from you, though, I'm not so
                            courageous," she replied. "I've been thinking
                            terrible things. I get frightened sometimes."
                        "But you mustn't, sweet, I need you so. Oh, how I need
                            you."
                        She looked at him, and for the first time smoothed his hair with her
                            hand.
                        "You know, Eugene, you're just like a boy to
                            me."
                        "Do I seem so?" he asked, comforted greatly.
                        "I couldn't love you as I do if you
                            weren't."
                        He drew her to him again and kissed her anew.
                        "Can't we repeat these rides every few days?"
                            he asked.
                        "Yes, if I'm here, maybe."
                        "It's all right to call you up if I use another
                            name?"
                        "Yes, I think so."
                        "Let's choose new names for each, so that
                            we'll know who's calling. You shall be Jenny Lind and
                            I Allan Poe." Then they fell to ardent love-making until the
                            time came when they had to return. For him, so far as work was
                            concerned, the afternoon was gone.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER IX
                        THERE followed now a series of meetings contrived with difficulty,
                            fraught with danger, destructive of his peace of mind, of his recently
                            acquired sense of moral and commercial responsibility, of the sense of
                            singleness of purpose and interest in his editorial and publishing
                            world, which had helped him so much recently. The meetings nevertheless
                            were full of such intense bliss for him that it seemed as though he were
                            a thousand times repaid for all the subtlety and folly he was
                            practicing. There were times when he came to the ice house in a hired
                            car, others when she notified him by phone or note to his office of
                            times when she was coming in to town to stay. He took her in his car one
                            afternoon to Blue Sea when he was sure no one would encounter him. He
                            persuaded Suzanne to carry a heavy veil, which could be adjusted at odd
                            moments. Another timeseveral, in factshe came to the apartment in
                            Riverside Drive, ostensibly to see how Mrs. Witla was getting along, but
                            really, of course, to see Eugene. Suzanne did not really care so much
                            for Angela, although she did not dislike her. She thought she was an
                            interesting woman, though perhaps nota happy mate for Eugene. The latter
                            had told her not so much that he was unhappy as that he was out of love.
                            He loved her now, Suzanne, and only her.
                        The problem as to where this relationship was to lead to was complicated
                            by another problem, which Eugene knew nothing of, but which was
                            exceedingly important. For Angela, following the career of Eugene with
                            extreme pleasure and satisfaction on the commercial side, and fear and
                            distrust on the social and emotional sides, had finally decided to risk
                            the uncertain outcome of a child in connection with Eugene and herself,
                            and to give him something which would steady his life and make him
                            realize his responsibilities and offer him something gladdening besides
                            social entertainment and the lure of beauty in youth. She had never
                            forgotten the advice which Mrs. Sanifore and her physician had given her
                            in Philadelphia, nor had she ever ceased her cogitations as to what the
                            probable effect of a child would be. Eugene needed something of this
                            sort to balance him. His position in the world was too tenuous, his
                            temperament too variable. A childa little girl, she hoped, for he always
                            liked little girls  and made much of
                            themwould quiet him. If she could only have a little girl now!
                        Some two months before her illness, while Eugene was becoming, all
                            unsuspected by her, so frenzied about Suzanne, she had relaxed, or
                            rather abandoned, her old-time precautions entirely, and had recently
                            begun to suspect that her fears, or hopes, or both, were about to be
                            realized. Owing to her subsequent illness and its effect on her heart,
                            she was not very happy now. She was naturally very uncertain as to the
                            outcome as well as to how Eugene would take it. He had never expressed a
                            desire for a child, but she had no thought of telling him as yet, for
                            she wanted to be absolutely sure. If she were not correct in her
                            suspicions, and got well, he would attempt to dissuade her for the
                            future. If she were, he could not help himself. Like all women in that
                            condition, she was beginning to long for sympathy and consideration and
                            to note more keenly the drift of Eugene's mind toward a world
                            which did not very much concern her. His interest in Suzanne had puzzled
                            her a little, though she was not greatly troubled about her because Mrs.
                            Dale appeared to be so thoughtful about her daughter. Times were
                            changing. Eugene had been going out much alone. A child would help. It
                            was high time it came.
                        When Suzanne had started coming with her mother, Angela thought nothing
                            of it; but on the several occasions when Suzanne called during her
                            illness, and Eugene had been present, she felt as though there might
                            easily spring up something between them. Suzanne was so charming. Once
                            as she lay thinking after Suzanne had left the room to go into the
                            studio for a few moments, she heard Eugene jesting with her and laughing
                            keenly. Suzanne's laugh, or gurgling giggle, was most
                            infectious. It was so easy, too, for Eugene to make her laugh, for his
                            type of jesting was to her the essence of fun. It seemed to her that
                            there was something almost overgay in the way they carried on. On each
                            occasion when she was present, Eugene proposed that he take Suzanne home
                            in his car, and this set her thinking.
                        There came a time when, Angela being well enough from her rheumatic
                            attack, Eugene invited a famous singer, a tenor, who had a charming
                            repertoire of songs, to come to his apartment and sing. He had met him
                            at a social affair in Brooklyn with which Winfield had something to do.
                            A number of people were invitedMrs. Dale, Suzanne, and Kinroy, among
                            others; but Mrs. Dale could not come, and as Suzanne had an appointment
                            for the next morning, Sunday, in the city, she decided to stay at  the Witlas. This pleased Eugene
                            immensely. He had bought a sketching book which he had begun to fill
                            with sketches of Suzanne from memory and these he wanted to show her.
                            Besides, he wanted her to hear this singer's beautiful
                            voice.
                        The company was interesting. Kinroy brought Suzanne early and left.
                            Eugene and Suzanne, after she had exchanged greetings with Angela, sat
                            out on the little stone balcony overlooking the river and exchanged
                            loving thoughts. He was constantly holding her hand when no one was
                            looking and stealing kisses. After a time the company began to arrive,
                            and finally the singer himself. The trained nurse, with
                            Eugene's assistance, helped Angela forward, who listened
                            enraptured to the songs. Suzanne and Eugene, swept by the charm of some
                            of them, looked at each other with that burning gaze which love alone
                            understands. To Eugene Suzanne's face was a perfect flower of
                            hypnotic influence. He could scarcely keep his eyes off her for a moment
                            at a time. The singer ceased, the company departed. Angela was left
                            crying over the beauty of "The Erlking," the last song
                            rendered. She went back to her room, and Suzanne ostensibly departed for
                            hers. She came out to say a few final words to Mrs. Witla, then came
                            through the studio to go to her own room again. Eugene was there
                            waiting. He caught her in his arms, kissing her silently. They pretended
                            to strike up a conventional conversation, and he invited her to sit out
                            on the stone balcony for a few last moments. The moon was so beautiful
                            over the river.
                        "Don't!" she said, when he gathered her in his
                            arms, in the shadow of the night outside. "She might
                            come." "No," he said eagerly. They listened,
                            but there was no sound. He began an easy pretence to talk, the while
                            stroking her pretty arm, which was bare. Insanity over her beauty, the
                            loveliness of the night, the charm of the music, had put him beside
                            himself. He drew her into his arms in spite of her protest, only to have
                            Angela suddenly appear at the other end of the room where the door was.
                            There was no concealing anythingshe saw. She came rapidly forward, even
                            as Suzanne jumped up, a sickening rage in her heart, a sense of her
                            personal condition strong in her mind, a sense of something terrible and
                            climacteric in the very air, but she was still too ill to risk a great
                            demonstration or to declare herself fully. It seemed note once more the
                            whole world had fallen about her ears, for because of her plans and in
                            spite of all her suspicions, she had not been ready to believe that
                            Eugene would really trespass again. She had come to surprise him,  if possible, but she had not actually
                            expected to, had hoped not to. Here was this beautiful girl, the victim
                            of his wiles, and here was she involved by her own planning, while
                            Eugene, shame-faced, she supposed, stood by ready to have this
                            ridiculous liaison nipped in the bud. She did not to expose herself to
                            Suzanne if she could help it, but sorrow for herself, shame for him,
                            pity for Suzanne in a way, the desire to preserve the shell of
                            appearances, which was now, after this, so utterly empty for her though
                            so important for the child, caused her to swell with her old-time rage,
                            and yet to hold it in check. Six years before she would have raged to
                            his face, but time had softened her in this respect. She did not see the
                            value of brutal words.
                        "Suzanne," she said, standing erect in the filtered
                            gloom of the room which was still irradiated by the light of the moon in
                            the west, "how could you! I thought so much better of
                            you."
                        Her face, thinned by her long illness and her brooding over her present
                            condition, was still beautiful in a spiritual way. She wore a pale
                            yellow and white flowered dressing gown of filmy, lacy texture, and her
                            long hair, done in braids by the nurse, was hanging down her back like
                            the Gretchen she was to him years before. Her hands were thin and pale,
                            but artistic, and her face drawn in all the wearisome agony of a mater
                            dolorosa.
                        "Why, why," exclaimed Suzanne, terribly shaken out of
                            her natural fine poise for the moment but not forgetful of the
                            dominating thought in her mind, "I love him; that's
                            why, Mrs. Witla."
                        "Oh, no, you don't! you only think you love him, as so
                            many women have before you, Suzanne," said Angela frozenly, the
                            thought of the coming child always with her. If she had only told him
                            before! "Oh, shame, in my house, and you a young, supposedly
                            innocent girl! What do you suppose your mother would think if I should
                            call her up and tell her now? Or your brother? You knew he was a married
                            man. I might excuse you if it weren't for thatif you
                            hadn't known me and hadn't accepted my hospitality. As
                            for him, there is no need of my talking to him. This is an old story
                            with him, Suzanne. He has done this with other women before you, and he
                            will do it with other women after you. It is one of the things I have to
                            bear for having married a man of so-called talent. Don't think,
                            Suzanne, when you tell me you love him, that you tell me anything new. I
                            have heard that story before from other women. You are not the first,
                            and you will not be the last."
                        Suzanne looked at Eugene inquiringly, vaguely, helplessly, wondering if
                            all this were so.
                        
                        Eugene hardened under Angela's cutting accusation, but he was
                            not at all sure at first what he ought to do. He wondered for the moment
                            whether he ought not to abandon Suzanne and fall back into his old
                            state, dreary as it might seem to him; but the sight of her pretty face,
                            the sound of Angela's cutting voice, determined him quickly.
                            "Angela," he began, recovering his composure the while
                            Suzanne contemplated him, "why do you talk that way? You know
                            that what you say isn't true. There was one other woman. I will
                            tell Suzanne about her. There were several before I married you. I will
                            tell her about them. But my life is a shell, and you know it. This
                            apartment is a shell. Absolutely it means nothing at all to me. There
                            has been no love between us, certainly not on my part, for years, and
                            you know that. You have practically confessed to me from time to time
                            that you do not care for me. I haven't deceived this girl. I am
                            glad to tell her now how things stand."
                        "How things stand! How things stand!" exclaimed Angela,
                            blazing and forgetting herself for the moment. "Will you tell
                            her what an excellent, faithful husband you have me? Will you tell her
                            how honestly you have kept your word pledged to me at the altar? Will
                            you tell her how I have worked and sacrificed for you through all these
                            years? How I have been repaid by just such things as this? I'm
                            sorry for you, Suzanne, more than anything else," went on
                            Angela, wondering whether she should tell Eugene here and now of her
                            condition but fearing he would not believe it. It seemed so much like
                            melodrama. "You are just a silly little girl duped by an expert
                            man, who thinks he loves you for a little while, but who really
                            doesn't. He will get over it. Tell me frankly what do you
                            expect to get out of it all? You can't marry him. I
                            won't give him a divorce. I cant, as he will know later, and he
                            has no grounds for obtaining one. Do you expect to be his mistress? You
                            have no hope of ever being anything else. Isn't that a nice
                            ambition for a girl of your standing? And you are supposed to be
                            virtuous! Oh, I am ashamed of you, if you are not! I am sorry for your
                            mother. I am astonished to think that you would so belittle
                            yourself."
                        Suzanne had heard the "I can't," but she
                            really did not know how to interpret it. It had never occurred to her
                            that there could ever be a child here to complicate matters. Eugene told
                            her that he was unhappy, that there was nothing between him and Angela
                            and never could be.
                        "But I love him, Mrs. Witla," said Suzanne simply and
                            rather dramatically. She was tense, erect, pale and decidedly beautiful.
                                 It was a great problem to have so
                            quickly laid upon her shoulders.
                        "Don't talk nonsense, Suzanne!" said Angela
                            angrily and desperately. "Don't deceive yourself and
                            stick to a silly pose. You are acting now. You're talking as
                            you think you ought to talk, as you have seen people talk in plays. This
                            is my husband. You are in my home. Come, get your things. I will call up
                            your mother and tell her how things stand, and she will send her auto
                            for you."
                        "Oh, no," said Suzanne, "you can't do
                            that! I can't go back there, if you tell her. I must go out in
                            the world and get something to do until I can straighten out my own
                            affairs. I won't be able to go home any more. Oh, what shall I
                            do?"
                        "Be calm, Suzanne," said Eugene determinedly, taking
                            her hand and looking at Angela defiantly. "She isn't
                            going to call up your mother, and she isn't going to tell your
                            mother. You are going to stay here, as you intended, and tomorrow you
                            are going where you thought you were going."
                        "Oh, no, she isn't!" said Angela angrily,
                            starting for the phone. "She is going home. I'm going
                            to call her mother."
                        Suzanne stirred nervously. Eugene put his hand in hers to reassure
                            her.
                        "Oh, no, you aren't," he said determinedly.
                            "She isn't going home, and you are not going to touch
                            that phone. If you do, a number of things are going to happen, and they
                            are going to happen quick."
                        He moved between her and the telephone receiver, which hung in the hall
                            outside the studio and toward which she was edging.
                        Angela paused at the ominous note in his voice, the determined quality of
                            his attitude. She was surprised and amazed at the almost rough manner in
                            which he put her aside. He had taken Suzanne's hand, he, her
                            husband, and was begging her to be calm.
                        "Oh, Eugene," said Angela desperately, frightened and
                            horrified, her anger half melted in her fears, "you
                            don't know what you are doing! Suzanne doesn't. She
                            won't want anything to do with you when she does. Young as she
                            is, she will have too much womanhood."
                        "What are you talking about?" asked Eugene desperately.
                            He had no idea of what Angela was driving at, not the faintest
                            suspicion. "What are you talking about?" he repeated
                            grimly.
                        "Let me say just one word to you alone, not here before Suzanne,
                            just one, and then perhaps you will be willing to let her go home
                            tonight."
                        
                        Angela was subtle in this, a little bit wicked. She was not using her
                            advantage in exactly the right spirit.
                        "What is it?" demanded Eugene sourly, expecting some
                            trick. He had so long gnawed at the chains which bound him that the
                            thought of any additional lengths which might be forged irritated him
                            greatly. "Why can 't you tell it here? What difference
                            can it make?"
                        "It ought to make all the difference in the world. Let me say it
                            to you alone.
                        Suzanne, who wondered what it could be, walked away. She was wondering
                            what it was that Angela had to tell. The latter's manner was
                            not exactly suggestive of the weighty secret she bore. When Suzanne was
                            gone, Angela whispered to him.
                        "It's a lie!" said Eugene vigorously,
                            desperately, hopelessly. "It's something
                            you've trumped up for the occasion. It's just like you
                            to say that, to do it! Pah! I don't believe it. It's a
                            lie! It's a lie! You know it's a lie!"
                        "It's the truth!" said Angela angrily,
                            pathetically, outraged in her every nerve and thought by the reception
                            which this fact had received, and desperate to think that the
                            announcement of a coming child by him should be received in this manner
                            under such circumstances that it should be forced from her as a last
                            resort, only to be received with derision and scorn.
                            "It's the truth, and you ought to be ashamed to say
                            that to me. What can I expect from a man, though, who would introduce
                            another woman into his own home as you have tonight?" To think
                            that she should be reduced to such a situation as this so suddenly! It
                            was impossible to argue it with him here. She was ashamed now that she
                            had introduced it at this time. He would not believe her, anyhow now,
                            she saw that. It only enraged him and her. He was too wild. This seemed
                            to infuriate himto condemn her in his mind as a trickster and a sharper,
                            someone who was using unfair means to hold him. He almost jumped away
                            from her in disgust, and she realized that she had struck an awful blow
                            which apparently, to him, had some elements of unfairness in it.
                        "Won't you have the decency after this to send her
                            away?" she pleaded aloud, angrily, eagerly, bitterly.
                        Eugene was absolutely in a fury of feeling. If ever he thoroughly hated
                            and despised Angela, he did so at that moment. To think that she should
                            have done anything like this! To think that she should have complicated
                            this problem of weariness of her with a thing like this! How cheap it
                            was, how shabby! It showed the measure of the woman, to bring a child
                                 into the world, regardless of the
                            interests of the child, in order to hold him against his will. Damn!
                            Hell! God damn such a complicated, rotten world! No, she was lying. She
                            could not hold him that way. It was a horrible, low, vile trick. He
                            would have nothing to do with her. He would show her. He would leave
                            her. He would show her that this sort of thing would not work with him.
                            It was like every other petty thing she had ever done. Never, never,
                            never, would he let this stand in the way. Oh, what a mean, cruel,
                            wretched thing to do!
                        Suzanne came back while they were arguing. She half suspected what it was
                            all about, but she did not dare to act or think clearly. The events of
                            this night were too numerous, too complicated. Eugene had said so
                            forcibly it was a lie whatever it was, that she half believed him. That
                            was a sign surely of the little affection that existed between him and
                            Angela. Angela was not crying. Her face was hard, white, drawn.
                        "I can't stay here," said Suzanne dramatically
                            to Eugene. "I will go somewhere. I had better go to a hotel for
                            the night. Will you call a car?"
                        "Listen to me, Suzanne," said Eugene vigorously and
                            determinedly. "You love me, don't you?"
                        "You know I do," she replied.
                        Angela stirred sneeringly.
                        "Then you will stay here. I want you to pay no attention to
                            anything she may say or declare. She has told me a lie tonight. I know
                            why. Don't let her deceive you. Go to your room and your bed. I
                            want to talk to you tomorrow. There is no need of your leaving tonight.
                            There is plenty of room here. It's silly. You're here
                            nowstay."
                        "But I don't think I'd better stay,"
                            said Suzanne nervously.
                        Eugene took her hand reassuringly.
                        "Listen to me," he began.
                        "But she won't stay," said Angela.
                        "But she will," said Eugene; "and if she
                            don't stay, she goes with me. I will take her
                            home."
                        "Oh, no, you won't!" replied Angela.
                        "Listen," said Eugene angrily. "This
                            isn't six years ago, but now. I'm master of this
                            situation, and she stays here. She stays here, or she goes with me and
                            you look to the future as best you may. I love her. I'm not
                            going to give her up, and if you want to make trouble, begin now. The
                            house comes down on your head, not mine."
                        "Oh!" said Angela, half terrified, "what do I
                            hear?"
                        "Just that. Now you go to your room. Suzanne will go to  hers. I will go to mine. We will not have
                            any more fighting here tonight. The jig is up. The die is cast.
                            I'm through. Suzanne comes to me, if she will."
                        Angela walked to her room through the studio, stricken by the turn things
                            had taken, horrified by the thoughts in her mind, unable to convince
                            Eugene, unable to depose Suzanne, her throat dry and hot, her hands
                            shaking, her heart beating fitfully; she felt as if her brain would
                            burst, her heart break actually, not emotionally. She thought Eugene had
                            gone crazy, and yet now, for the first time in her married life, she
                            realized what a terrible mistake she had made in always trying to drive
                            him. It hadn't worked tonight, her rage, her domineering,
                            critical attitude. It had failed her completely, and also this scheme,
                            this beautiful plan, this trump card on which she had placed so much
                            reliance for a happy life, this child which she had hoped to play so
                            effectively. He didn't believe her. He wouldn't even
                            admit its possibility. He didn't admire her for it. He despised
                            her! He looked on it as a trick. Oh, what an unfortunate thing it had
                            been to mention it! And yet Suzanne must understand, she must know, she
                            would never countenance anything like this. But what would he do? He was
                            positively livid with rage. What fine auspices these were under which to
                            usher a child into the world! She stared feverishly before her, and
                            finally began to cry hopelessly.
                        Eugene stood in the hall beside Suzanne after she had gone. His face was
                            drawn, his eyes hunted, his hair tousled. He looked grim and determined
                            in his way, stronger than he had ever looked before.
                        "Suzanne," he said, taking the latter by her two arms
                            and staring into her eyes, "she has told me a lie, a lie, a
                            cold, mean, cruel lie. She'll tell it you shortly. She says she
                            is with child by me. It isn't so. She couldn't have
                            one. If she did, it would kill her. She would have had one long ago if
                            she could have. I know her. She thinks this will frighten me. She thinks
                            it will drive you away. Will it? It's a lie, do you hear me,
                            whatever she says. It's a lie, and she knows it.
                            Ough!" He dropped her left arm and pulled at his neck.
                            "I can't stand this. You won't leave me. You
                            won't believe her, will you?"
                        Suzanne stared into his distraught face, his handsome, desperate,
                            significant eyes. She saw the woe there, the agony, and was sympathetic.
                            He seemed wonderfully worthy of love, unhappy, unfortunately pursued;
                            and yet she was frightened. Still she had promised to love him.
                        
                        "No," she said fixedly, her eyes speaking a dramatic
                            confidence.
                        "You won't leave here tonight?"
                        "No."
                        She smoothed his cheek with her hand.
                        "You will come and walk with me in the morning? I have to talk
                            with you."
                        "Yes."
                        "Don't be afraid. Just lock your door if you are. She
                            won't bother you. She won't do anything. She is afraid
                            of me. She may want to talk with you, but I am close by. Do you still
                            love me?"
                        "Yes"
                        "Will you come to me if I can arrange it?"
                        "Yes."
                        "Even in the face of what she says?"
                        "Yes; I don't believe her. I believe you. What
                            difference could it make, anyhow? You don't love
                            her."
                        "No," he said; "no, no, no! I never
                            have." He drew her into his arms wearily, relievedly.
                            "Oh, Flower Face," he said, "don't
                            give me up! Don't grieve. Try not to, anyhow. I have been bad,
                            as she says, but I love you. I love you, and I will stake all on that.
                            If all this must fall about our heads, then let it fall. I love
                            you."
                        Suzanne stroked his cheek with her hands nervously. She was deathly pale,
                            frightened, but somehow courageous through it all. She caught strength
                            from his love.
                        "I love you," she said.
                        "Yes," he replied. "You won't give me
                            up?"
                        "No, I won't," she said, not really
                            understanding the depth of her own mood. "I will be
                            true."
                        "Things will be better tomorrow," he said, somewhat
                            more quietly. "We will be calmer. We will walk and talk. You
                            won't leave without me?"
                        "No."
                        "Please don't; for I love you, and we must talk and
                            plan."
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER X
                        THE introduction of this astonishing fact in connection with Angela was
                            so unexpected, so morally diverting and peculiar that though Eugene
                            denied it, half believed she was lying, he was harassed by the thought
                            that she might be telling the truth. It was so unfair, though, was all
                            he could think, so unkind! It never occurred to him that it was
                            accidental, as indeed it was not, but only that it was a trick, sharp,
                            cunning, ill-timed for him, just the thing calculated to blast his
                            career and tie him down to the old rgime when he wanted most to be free.
                            A new life was dawning for him now. For the first time in his life he
                            was to have a woman after his own heart, so young, so beautiful, so
                            intellectual, so artistic! With Suzanne by his side, he was about to
                            plumb the depths of all the joys of living. Without her, life was to be
                            dark and dreary, and here was Angela coming forward at the critical
                            moment disrupting this dream as best she could by the introduction of a
                            child that she did not want, and all to hold him against his will. If
                            ever he hated her for trickery and sharp dealing, he did so now. What
                            would the effect on Suzanne be? How would he convince her that it was a
                            trick? She must understand; she would. She would not let this miserable
                            piece of chicanery stand between him and her. He turned in his bed
                            wearily after he had gone to it, but he could not sleep. He had to say
                            something, do something. So he arose, slipped on a dressing gown, and
                            went to Angela's room.
                        That distraught soul, for all her determination and fighting capacity,
                            was enduring for the second time in her life the fires of hell. To think
                            that in spite of all her work, her dreams, this recent effort to bring
                            about peace and happiness, perhaps at the expense of her own life, she
                            was compelled to witness a scene like this. Eugene was trying to get
                            free. He was obviously determined to do so. This scandalous
                            relationship, when had it begun? Would her effort to hold him fail? It
                            looked that way, and yet surely Suzanne, when she knew, when she
                            understood, would leave him. Any woman would.
                        Her head ached, her hands were hot, she fancied she might be suffering a
                            terrible nightmare, she was so sick and weak; but, no, this was her
                            room. A little while ago she was sitting in her husband's
                            studio, surrounded by friends, the object of much solicitude, Eugene
                            apparently considerate and thoughtful of her,  beautiful programme being rendered for their special
                            benefit. Now she was lying here in her room, a despised wife, an outcast
                            from affection and happiness, the victim of some horrible sorcery of
                            fate whereby another woman stood in her place in Eugene's
                            affection. To see Suzanne, proud in her young beauty, confronting her
                            with bold eyes, holding her husband's hand, saying in what
                            seemed to her to be brutal, or insane, or silly melodramatic
                            make-believe, "But I love him, Mrs. Witla," was
                            maddening. Oh, God! Oh, God! Would her tortures never cease? Must all
                            her beautiful dreams come to nothing? Would Eugene leave her, as he so
                            violently said a little while ago? She had never seen him like this. It
                            was terrible to see him so determined, so cold and brutal. His voice had
                            actually been harsh and guttural, something she had never known before
                            in him.
                        She trembled as she thought, and then great flashes of rage swept her
                            only to be replaced by rushes of fear. She was in such a terrific
                            position. The woman was with him, young, defiant, beautiful. She had
                            heard him call to her, had heard them talking. Once she thought that now
                            would be the time to murder him, Suzanne, herself, the coming life and
                            end it all; but at this critical moment, having been sick and having
                            grown so much older, with this problem of the coming life before her,
                            she had no chart to go by. She tried to console herself with the thought
                            that he must abandon his course, that he would when the true force of
                            what she had revealed had had time to sink home; but it had not had time
                            yet. Would it before he did anything rash? Would it before he had
                            completely compromised himself and Suzanne? Judging from her talk and
                            his, he had not as yet, or she thought not. What was he going to do?
                            What was he going to do?
                        Angela feared as she lay there that in spite of her revelation he might
                            really leave her immediately. There might readily spring a terrible
                            public scandal out of all this. The mockery of their lives laid bare;
                            the fate of the child jeopardized; Eugene, Suzanne, and herself
                            disgraced, though she had little thought for Suzanne. Suzanne might get
                            him, after all. She might accidentally be just hard and cold enough. The
                            world might possibly forgive him. She herself might die! What an end,
                            after all her dreams of something bigger, better, surer! Oh, the pity,
                            the agony of this! The terror and horror of a wrecked life!
                        And then Eugene came into the room.
                        He was haggard, stormy-eyed, thoughtful, melancholy, as he entered. He
                            stood in the doorway first, intent, then clicked a little night-lamp
                            button which threw on a very small incandescent  light near the head of Angela's bed, and then sat
                            down in a rocking-chair which the nurse had placed near the medicine
                            table. Angela had so much improved that no night nurse was neededonly a
                            twelve-hour one.
                        "Well" he said solemnly but coldly, when he saw her
                            pale, distraught, much of her old, youthful beauty still with her,
                            "you think you have scored a splendid trick, don't
                            you? You think you have sprung a trap? I simply came in here to tell you
                            that you haven'tthat you have only seen the beginning of the
                            end. You say you are going to have a child. I don't believe it.
                            It's a lie, and you know it's a lie. You saw that
                            there was an end coming to all this state of weariness some time, and
                            this is your answer. Well, you've played one trick too many,
                            and you've played it in vain. You lose. I win this time.
                            I'm going to be free now, I want to say to you, and I am going
                            to be free if I have to turn everything upside down. I don't
                            care if there were seventeen prospective children instead of one.
                            It's a lie, in the first place; but if it isn't,
                            it's a trick, and I'm not going to be tricked any
                            longer. I've had all I want of domination and trickery and
                            cheap ideas. I'm through now, do you hear me? I'm
                            through."
                        He felt his forehead with a nervous hand. His head ached, he was half
                            sick. This was such a dreary pit to find himself in, this pit of
                            matrimony, chained by a domineering wife and a trickily manoeuvred
                            child. His child! What a mockery at this stage of his life! How he hated
                            the thought of that sort of thing, how cheap it all seemed!
                        Angela, who was wide-eyed, flushed, exhausted, lying staring on her
                            pillow, asked in a weary, indifferent voice: "What do you want
                            me to do, Eugene, leave you?"
                        "I'll tell you, Angela," he said sepulchrally,
                            "I don't know what I want you to do just at this
                            moment. The old life is all over. It's as dead as dead can be.
                            For eleven or twelve years now I have lived with you, knowing all the
                            while that I was living a lie. I have never really loved you since we
                            were married. You know that. I may have loved you in the beginning, yes,
                            I did, and at Blackwood, but that was a long, long while ago. I never
                            should have married you. It was a mistake, but I did, and I've
                            paid for it, inch by inch. You have, too. You have insisted all along
                            that I ought to love you. You have browbeaten and abused me for
                            something I could no more do than I could fly. Now, at this last minute,
                            you introduce a child to hold me. I know why you have done it. You
                            imagine that in some way you have been appointed by God to be my mentor
                            and  guardian. Well, I tell you now that
                            you haven't. It's all over. If there were fifty
                            children, it's all over. Suzanne isn't going to
                            believe any such cheap story as that, and if she did she
                            wouldn't leave me. She knows why you do it. All the days of
                            weariness are over for me, all the days of being afraid. I'm
                            not an ordinary man, and I'm not going to live an ordinary
                            life. You have always insisted on holding me down to the little, cheap
                            conventions as you have understood them. Out in Wisconsin, out in
                            Blackwood. Nothing doing. It's all over from now on.
                            Everything's over. This house, my job, my real estate
                            dealeverything. I don't care what your condition is. I love
                            this girl in there, and I'm going to have her. Do you hear me?
                            I love her, and I'm going to have her. She's mine. She
                            suits me. I love her, and no power under God is going to stay me. Now
                            you think this child proposition you have fixed up is going to stay me,
                            but you are going to find out that it can't, that it
                            won't. It's a trick, and I know it, and you know it.
                            It's too late. It might have last year, or two years ago, or
                            three, but it won't work now. You have played your last card.
                            That girl in there belongs to me, and I'm going to have
                            her."
                        Again he smoothed his face in a weary way, pausing to sway the least bit
                            in his chair. His teeth were set, his eyes hard. Consciously he realized
                            that it was a terrible situation that confronted him, hard to wrestle
                            with.
                        Angela gazed at him with the eyes of one who is not quite sure that she
                            even sees aright. She knew that Eugene had developed. He had become
                            stronger, more urgent, more defiant, during all these years in which he
                            had been going upward. He was no more like the Eugene who had clung to
                            her for companionship in the dark days at Biloxi and elsewhere than a
                            child is like a grown man. He was harder, easier in his manner, more
                            indifferent, and yet, until now, there had never been a want of traces
                            of the old Eugene. What had become of them so suddenly? Why was he so
                            raging, so bitter? This girl, this foolish, silly, selfish girl, with
                            her Circe gift of beauty, by tolerance of his suit, by yielding, perhaps
                            by throwing herself at Eugene's head, had done this thing. She
                            had drawn him away from her in spite of the fact that they had appeared
                            to be happily mated. Suzanne did not know that they were not. In this
                            mood he might actually leave her, even as she was, with child. It
                            depended on the girl. Unless she could influence her, unless she could
                            bring pressure to bear in some way, Eugene might readily be lost to her,
                            and then what a tragedy! She could not afford to have him go now. Why,
                            in six months! She shivered at the thought  of all the misery a separation would entail. His position, their
                            child, society, this apartment. Dear God, it would drive her crazy if he
                            were to desert her now!
                        "Oh, Eugene," she said quite sadly and without any
                            wrath in her voice at this moment, for she was too torn, terrified and
                            disheveled in spirit to feel anything save a haunting sense of fear,
                            "you don't know what a terrible mistake you are
                            making. I did do this thing on purpose, Eugene. It is true. Long ago in
                            PhiladeIphia with Mrs. Sanifore I went to a physician to see if it were
                            possible that I might have a child. You know that I always thought that
                            I couldn't. Well, he told me that I could. I went because I
                            thought that you needed something like that, Eugene, to balance you. I
                            knew you didn't want one. I thought you would be angry when I
                            told you. I didn't act on it for a long while. I
                            didn't want one myself. I hoped that it might be a little girl
                            if ever there was one, because I know that you like little girls. It
                            seems silly now in the face of what has happened tonight. I see what a
                            mistake I have made. I see what the mistake is, but I didn't
                            mean it evilly, Eugene. I didn't. I wanted to hold you, to bind
                            you to me in some way, to help you. Do you utterly blame me, Eugene?
                            I'm your wife, you know."
                        He stirred irritably, and she paused, scarcely knowing how to go on. She
                            could see how terribly irritated he was, how sick at heart, and yet she
                            resented this attitude on his part. It was so hard to endure when all
                            along she had fancied that she had so many just claims on him, moral,
                            social, other claims, which he dare not ignore. Here she was now, sick,
                            weary, pleading with him for something that ought justly be hersand this
                            coming child's!
                        "Oh, Eugene," she said quite sadly, and still without
                            any wrath in her voice, "please think before you make a
                            mistake. You don't really love this girl, you only think you
                            do. You think she is beautiful and good and sweet and you are going to
                            tear everything up and leave me, but you don't love her, and
                            you are going to find it out. You don't love anyone, Eugene.
                            You can't. You are too selfish. If you had any real love in
                            you, some of it would have come out to me, for I have tried to be all
                            that a good wife should be, but it has been all in vain. I've
                            known you haven't liked me all these years. I've seen
                            it in your eyes, Eugene. You have never come very close to me as a lover
                            should unless you had to or you couldn't avoid me. You have
                            been cold and indifferent, and now that I look back I see that it has
                            made me so. I have been cold and hard. I've tried to steel
                            myself to match what I thought was your steeliness, and  now I see what it has done for me.
                            I'm sorry. But as for her, you don't love her and you
                            won't. She's too young. She hasn't any ideas
                            that agree with yours. You think she's soft and gentle, and yet
                            big and wise, but do you think if she had been that she could have stood
                            up there as she did tonight and looked me in the eyesme, your wifeand
                            told me that she loved youyou, my husband? Do you think if she had any
                            shame she would be in there now knowing what she does, for I suppose you
                            have told her? What kind of a girl is that, anyway? You call her good?
                            Good! Would a good girl do anything like that?"
                        "What is the use of arguing by appearances?" asked
                            Eugene, who had interrupted her with exclamations of opposition and
                            bitter comments all through the previous address. "The
                            situation is one which makes anything look bad. She didn't
                            intend to, be put in a position where she would have to tell you that
                            she loved me. She didn't come here to let make love to her in
                            this apartment. I made love to her. She's in love with me, and
                            I made her love me. I didn't know of this other thing. If I
                            had, it wouldn't have made any difference. However, let that be
                            as it will. So it is. I'm in love with her, and that's
                            all there is to it."
                        Angela stared at the wall. She was half propped up on a pillow, and had
                            no courage now to speak of and no fighting strength.
                        "I know what it is with you, Eugene," she said, after a
                            time; "it's the yoke that galls. It isn't me
                            only; it's anyone. It's marriage. You don't
                            want to be married. It would be the same with any woman who might ever
                            have loved and married you, or with any number of children. You would
                            want to get rid of her and them. It's the yoke that galls you,
                            Eugene. You want your freedom, and you won't be satisfied until
                            you have it. A child wouldn't make any difference. I can see
                            that now."
                        "I want my freedom," he exclaimed bitterly and
                            inconsiderately, "and, what's more, I'm going
                            to have it! I don't care. I'm sick of lying and
                            pretending, sick of common little piffling notions of what you consider
                            right and wrong. For eleven or twelve years now I have stood it. I have
                            sat with you every morning at breakfast and every evening at dinner,
                            most of the time when I didn't want to. I have listened to your
                            theories of life when I didn't believe a word of what you said,
                            and didn't care anything about what you thought. I've
                            done it because I thought I ought to do it so as not to hurt your
                            feelings, but I'm through with all that. What have I had?
                            Spying on me, opposition, searching my pockets for letters, complaining
                            if I dared  to stay out a single evening
                            and did not give an account of myself.
                        "Why didn't you leave me after that affair at
                            Riverdale? Why do you hang on to me when I don't love you?
                            One'd think I was prisoner and you my keeper. Good Christ! When
                            I think of it, it makes me sick! Well, there's no use worrying
                            over that any more. It's all over. It's all
                            beautifully over, and I'm done with it. I'm going to
                            live a life of my own hereafter. I'm going to carve out some of
                            a career that suits me. I'm going to live with someone that I
                            can really love, and that's the end of it. Now you run and do
                            anything you want to."
                        He was like a young horse that had broken rein and that thinks that by
                            rearing and plunging he shall become forever free. He was thinking of
                            green fields and delightful pastures. He was free now, in spite of what
                            she had told him. This night had made him so, and he was going to remain
                            free. Suzanne would stand by him, he felt it. He was going to make it
                            perfectly plain to Angela that never again, come what may, would things
                            be as they were.
                        "Yes, Eugene," she replied sadly, after listening to
                            his protestations on this score, "I think that you do want your
                            freedom, now that I see you. I'm beginning to see what it means
                            to you. But I have made such a terrible mistake. Are you thinking about
                            me at all? What shall I do? It is true that there will be a child unless
                            I die. I may die. I'm afraid of that, or I was. I am not now.
                            The only reason I would care to live would be to take care of it. I
                            didn't think I was going to be ill with rheumatism. I
                            didn't think my heart was going to be affected in this way. I
                            didn't think that you were going to do as you have done, but
                            now that you have, nothing matters. Oh," she said sadly, hot
                            tears welling to her eyes, "it is all such a mistake! If I only
                            hadn't done this!"
                        Eugene stared at the floor. He wasn't softened one bit. He did
                            not think she was going to dieno such luck! He was thinking that this
                            merely complicated things, or that she might be acting, but that it
                            could not stand in his way. Why had she tried to trick him in this way?
                            It was her fault. Now she was crying, but that was the old hypocrisy of
                            emotion that she had used so often. He did not intend to desert her
                            absolutely. She would have plenty to live on. Merely he did not propose
                            to live with her, if he could help it, or only nominally, anyhow. The
                            major portion of his time should be given to Suzanne.
                        "I don't care what it costs," he said finally.
                            "I don't propose to live with you. I didn't
                            ask you to have a child. It was  none of
                            my doing. You're not going to be deserted financially, but
                            I'm not going to live with you."
                        He stirred again, and Angela stared hot-cheeked. The hardness of the man
                            enraged her for the moment. She did not believe that she would starve,
                            but their improving surroundings, their home, their social position,
                            would be broken up completely.
                        "Yes, yes. I understand," she pleaded, with an effort
                            at controlling herself, "but I am not the only one to be
                            considered. Are you thinking of Mrs. Dale, and what she may do and say?
                            She isn't going to let you take Suzanne if she knows it,
                            without doing something about it. She is an able woman. She loves
                            Suzanne, however self-willed she may be. She likes you now, but how long
                            do you think she is going to like you when she learns what you want to
                            do with her daughter? What are you going to do with her? You
                            can't marry her under a year even if I were willing to give you
                            a divorce. You could scarcely get a divorce in that time."
                        "I'm going to live with her, that's what
                            I'm going to do," declared Eugene. "She loves
                            me, she's willing to take me just as I am. She doesn't
                            need marriage ceremonies and rings and vows and chains. She
                            doesn't believe in them. As long as I love her, all right. When
                            I cease to love her, she doesn't want me any more. Some
                            difference in that, isn't there?" he added bitterly.
                            "It doesn't sound exactly like Blackwood, does
                            it?"
                        Angela bridled. His taunts were cruel.
                        "She says that, Eugene," she replied quietly,
                            "but she has't had time to think. You've
                            hypnotized her for the moment. She's fascinated. When she stops
                            to think later, if she has any sense, any prideBut, oh, why should I
                            talk, you won't listen. You won't think."
                            Then she added: "But what do you propose to do about Mrs. Dale?
                            Don't you suppose she will fight you, even if I do not? I wish
                            you would stop and think, Eugene. This is a terrible thing you are
                            doing."
                        "Think! Think!" he exclaimed savagely and bitterly.
                            "As though I had not been thinking all these years. Think!
                            Hell! I haven't done anything but think. I've thought
                            until the soul within me is sick. I've thought until I wish to
                            God I could stop. I've thought about Mrs. Dale. Don't
                            you worry about her. I'll settle this matter with her later.
                            Just now I want to convince you of what I am going to do. I'm
                            going to have Suzanne, and you're not going to stop
                            me."
                        "Oh, Eugene," sighed Angela, "if something
                            would only make you see! It is partially my fault. I have been hard and
                            suspicious  and jealous, but you have
                            given me some cause to be, don't you think? I see now that I
                            have made a mistake. I have been too hard and too jealous, but I could
                            reform if you would let me try." (She was thinking now of
                            living, not dying.) "I know I could. You have so much to lose.
                            Is this change worth it? You know so well how the world looks at these
                            things. Why, even if you should obtain your freedom from me under the
                            circumstances, what do you suppose the world would think? You
                            couldn't desert your child. Why not wait and see what happens?
                            I might die. There have been such cases. Then you would be free to do as
                            you pleased. That is only a little way off."
                        It was a specious plea, calculated to hold him; but he saw through
                            it.
                        "Nothing doing!" he exclaimed, in the slang of the day.
                            "I know all about that. I know what you're thinking.
                            In the first place, I don't believe you are in the condition
                            you say you are. In the next place, you're not going to die. I
                            don't propose to wait to be free. I know you, and I've
                            no faith in you. What I do needn't affect your condition.
                            You're not going to starve. No one need know, unless you start
                            a row about it. Suzanne and I can arrange this between ourselves. I know
                            what you're thinking, but you're not going to
                            interfere. If you do, I'll smash everything in sightyou, this
                            apartment, my job" He clenched his hands desperately,
                            determinedly.
                        Angela's hands were tingling with nervous pains while Eugene
                            talked. Her eyes ached and her heart fluttered. She could not understand
                            this dark, determined man, so savage and so resolute in his manner. Was
                            this Eugene who was always moving about quietly when he was near her,
                            getting angry at times, but always feeling sorry and apologizing? She
                            had boasted to some of her friends, and particularly to Marietta, in a
                            friendly, jesting way that she could wind Eugene around her little
                            finger. He was so easy-going in the main, so quiet. Here he was a raging
                            demon almost, possessed of an evil spirit of desire and tearing up his
                            and hers and Suzanne's life for that matter, by the roots. She
                            did not care for Suzanne, though, now, or Mrs. Dale. Her own blighted
                            life, and Eugene's, looming so straight ahead of her terrified
                            her.
                        "What do you suppose Mr. Colfax will do when he hears of
                            this?" she asked desperately, hoping to frighten him.
                        "I don't care a damn what Mr. Colfax will or can
                            do!" he replied sententiously. "I don't care
                            a damn what anybody does or says or thinks. I love Suzanne Dale. She
                            loves me. She  wants me. There's
                            an end of that. I'm going to her now. You stay me if you
                            can."
                        Suzanne Dale! Suzanne Dale! How that name enraged and frightened Angela!
                            Never before had she witnessed quite so clearly the power of beauty.
                            Suzanne Dale was young and beautiful. She was looking at her only
                            tonight thinking how fascinating. She washow fair her faceand here was
                            Eugene bewithched by it, completely undone. Oh, the terror of beauty!
                            The terror of social life generally! Why had she entertained? Why become
                            friendly with the Dales? But then there were other personalities, almost
                            as lovely and quite as youngMarjorie McLennan, Florence Reel, Henrietta
                            Tenman, Annette Kean. It might have been any one of these. She
                            couldn't have been expected to shut out all young women from
                            Eugene's life. No; it was Eugene. It was his attitude toward
                            life. His craze about the beautiful, particularly in women. She could
                            see it now. He really was not strong enough. Beauty would always upset
                            him at critical moments. She had seen it in relation to herselfthe
                            beauty of her form, which he admired so, or had admired.
                            "God," she prayed silently, "give me wisdom
                            now. Give me strength. I don't deserve it, but help me. Help me
                            to save him. Help me to save myself."
                        "Oh, Eugene," she said aloud, hopelessly, "I
                            wish you would stop and think. I wish you would let Suzanne go her way
                            in the morning, and you stay sane and calm. I won't care about
                            myself. I can forgive and forget. I'll promise you
                            I'll never mention it. If a child comes, I'll do my
                            best not to let it annoy you. I'll try yet not to have one. It
                            may not be too late. I'll change from this day forth.
                            Oh!" She began to cry.
                        "No! By God!" he said, getting up. "No! No!
                            No! I'm through now. I'm through! I've had
                            enough of fake hysterics and tears. Tears one minute, and wrath and hate
                            the next. Subtlety! Subtlety! Subtlety! Nothing doing. You've
                            been master and jailer long enough. It's my turn now.
                            I'll do a little jailing and task-setting for a change.
                            I'm in the saddle, and I'm going to stay there. You
                            can cry if you want to, you can do what you please about the child.
                            I'm through. I'm tired, and I'm going to bed,
                            but this thing is going to stand just as it does. I'm through,
                            and that's all there is to it."
                        He strode out of the room angrily and fiercely, but nevertheless, when he
                            reached it, he sat in his own room, which was on the other side of the
                            studio from Angelas, and did not sleep. His mind was on fire with the
                            thought of Suzanne; he thought of the old order which had been so
                            quickly and so terribly broken.  Now, if
                            he could remain master and he could, he proposed to take Suzanne. She
                            would come to him, secretly no doubt, if necessary. They would open a
                            studio, a second establishment. Angela might not give him a divorce. If
                            what she said was true, she couldn't. He wouldn't want
                            her to, but he fancied from this conversation that she was so afraid of
                            him that she would not stir up any trouble. There was nothing she could
                            really do. He was in the saddle truly, and would stay there. He would
                            take Suzanne, would provide amply for Angela, would visit all those
                            lovely public resorts he had so frequently seen, and he and Suzanne
                            would be happy together.
                        Suzanne! Suzanne! Oh, how beautiful she was! And to think how nobly and
                            courageously she had stood by him tonight. How she had slipped her hand
                            into his so sweetly and had said, "But I love him, Mrs.
                            Witla." Yes, she loved him. No doubt of that. She was young,
                            exquisite, beautifully rounded in her budding emotion and feeling. She
                            was going to develop into a wonderful woman, a real one. And she was so
                            young. What a pity it was he was not free now! Well, wait, this would
                            right all things, and, meanwhile, he would have her. He must talk to
                            Suzanne. He must tell her how things stood. Poor little Suzanne! There
                            she was in her room wondering what was to become of her, and here was
                            he. Well, he couldn't go to her tonight. It did not look right,
                            and, besides, Angela might fight still. But tomorrow! Tomorrow! Oh,
                            tomorrow he would walk and talk with her, and they would plan. Tomorrow
                            he would show her just what he wanted to do and find out what she could
                            do.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XI
                        THIS night passed without additional scenes, though as it stood it was
                            the most astonishing and tremendous in all Eugene's experience.
                            He had, not up to the time Angela walked into the room, really expected
                            anything so dramatic and climacteric to happen, though what he did
                            expect was never really very clear to him. At times as he lay and
                            thought now he fancied that he might eventually have to give Suzanne up,
                            though how, or when, or why, he could not say. He was literally crazed
                            by her, and could not think that such a thing could really be. At other
                            moments he fancied that powers outside of this visible life, the life
                            attested by the five senses, had arranged this beautiful finish to his
                            career for him so that he might be perfectly happy. All his life he had
                            fancied that he was leading a more or less fated life, principally more.
                            He thought that his art was a gift, that he had in a way been sent to
                            revolutionize art in America, or carry it one step farther forward and
                            that nature was thus constantly sending its apostles or special
                            representatives over whom it kept watch and in whom it was well pleased.
                            At other times he fancied he might be the sport or toy of untoward and
                            malicious powers, such as those which surrounded and accomplished
                            Macbeth's tragic end, and which might be intending to make an
                            illustration of him. As he looked at life at times, it seemed to do this
                            with certain people. The fates lied. Lovely, blandishing lures were held
                            out only to lead men to destruction. He had seen other men who seemed to
                            have been undone in this way. Was he to be so treated?
                        Angela's unexpected and peculiar announcement made it look that
                            way. Still he did not believe it. Life had sent Suzanne across his path
                            for a purpose. The fates or powers had seen he was miserable and
                            unhappy. Being a favorite child of Heaven, he was to be rewarded for his
                            sufferings by having her. She was here nowquickly, forcefully thrust
                            into his arms, so to speak, so that perhaps he might have her all the
                            more quickly. How silly it seemed to him now to have brought her into
                            his own apartment to make love to her and get caught, and yet how
                            fortunate, too, the hand of fate! No doubt it was intended. Anyhow, the
                            shame to him, the shame to Angela and Suzanne, the terrific moments and
                            hours that each was enduring nowthese were things which were
                            unfortunately involved in any  necessarily
                            great readjustment. It was probable that it had to come about this way.
                            It was better so than to go on living an unhappy life. He was really
                            fitted for something better, he thoughta great career. He would have to
                            adjust this thing with Angela in some way now, either leave her, or make
                            some arrangement whereby he could enjoy the company of Suzanne
                            uninterrupted. There must be no interference. He did not propose to give
                            her up. The child might come. Well and good. He would provide for it,
                            that would be all. He re, called now the conversation he had had with
                            Suzanne in which she had said that she would live with him if she could.
                            The time had come. Their plan for a studio should now be put into
                            effect. It must be secret. Angela would not care. She could not help
                            herself. If only the events of this night did not tertorize Suzanne into
                            retracing her steps! He had not explained to her how he was to get rid
                            of Angela apart from what she had heard this night. She was thinking, he
                            knew, that they could go on loving each other in this tentative fashion,
                            occupying a studio together, perhaps, not caring what the world thought,
                            not caring what her mother thought, ignoring her brother and sister and
                            Angela, and being happy with Eugene only. He had never tried to
                            disillusion her. He was not thinking clearly himself. He was rushing
                            forward in an aimless way, desiring the companionship of her beautiful
                            mind and body. Now he saw he must act or lose her. He must convince her
                            in the face of what Angela had said, or let her go. She would probably
                            be willing to come to him rather than leave him entirely. He must talk,
                            explain, make her understand just what a trick this all was.
                        Angela had not slept, but lay staring at the ceiling in the dark, her
                            eyes a study in despair. When morning came they were none of them
                            further along in their conclusions than they were the night before, save
                            to know, each separately and distinctly, that a great tragedy or change
                            was at hand. Suzanne had thought and thought, or tried to, but the
                            impulse of blood and passion in her were Eugeneward and she could only
                            see the situation from their own point of view. She loved him, she
                            thoughtmust love him, since he was so ready to sacrifice so much for
                            her; yet at the same time there was a strange, disconcerting nebulosity
                            about her which, had Eugene fully realized it at this moment, would have
                            terrified him. In her state, which was one of wondering delight at the
                            beauty of life and lovea fatalistic security in the thought that joy was
                            to come to her throughout lifemuch joy. She could not see the grimness
                            of Eugene's position. She could not understand the agony of a
                                 soul that had never really tasted
                            supreme bliss in love, and had wanted, however foolishly, the
                            accessories of wealth, and had never had them. Terrorized lest after the
                            first sip of so wonderful a joy it should be removed forever, Eugene was
                            tingling in the dark of his own roomtingling and yet reaching, almost
                            with outstretched hands, to the splendor of the life that was seemingly
                            before him. Suzanne, however, to whom life had given so much, was
                            resting in a kind of still ease, like that which might fill a drowsy
                            poppyland of joy where all the pleasures had been attained and were
                            being tasted at leisure. Life at its worst to her was not so bad.
                            Witness this storm which had been quelled in part by Eugene and was like
                            to blow over as nothing at all. Things came round of their own accord in
                            time, if one let them. She had always felt so sure that whatever
                            happened no ill would befall her, and here she was courted and protected
                            by Eugene even in his own home!
                        In this situation, therefore, she was not grieving either for Eugene, for
                            Angela, or for herself. She could not. Some dispositions are so. Eugene
                            was able to take care of himself and her and Angela financially, she
                            thought. She was really looking forward to that better day when this
                            misalliance should be broken up, and Eugene and presumably Angela would
                            be really happier. She wanted Eugene to be much happier, and Angela, for
                            that matterand through her, if possible, since Eugene's
                            happiness seemed to depend on her. But unlike Eugene, she was already
                            thinking that she could live well enough without him, if it must be. She
                            did not want to. She felt that her greatest happiness would be in
                            repaying him for past ills and pains; but if they must part for a time,
                            for instance, it would not make so much difference. Time would bring
                            them together. But if it didn'tBut it would. Why think
                            otherwise? But how wonderful it was that her beauty, her mere physical
                            beauty, which seemed unimportant to her, made him so wild. She could not
                            know of the actual physical pain gnawing at his vitals, but it was so
                            plain that he was madly stricken with her. His whole face and his
                            burning black eyes riveted on her in intense delight and almost agony
                            proved it. Was she so beautiful? Surely not! Yet he yearned over her so.
                            And it was so delightful.
                        She arose at dawn and began silently to dress, thinking that she might
                            take a walk, leaving a note for Eugene as to where to come and find her
                            if he could. She had one appointment for the day. Later she would have
                            to go home, but things would come out all right. Since Eugene had
                            compelled Angela to relinquish her determination to inform her mother,
                            all must be well. They  would meet, she
                            and Eugene. She would leave her home and be his and they would go
                            anywhere, anywhere Eugene desired, only she would prefer to persuade her
                            mother to see things from her point of view and later countenance some
                            understanding between them here. Because of Angela's and
                            Eugene's position here, she preferred this. Because of her
                            youth and her poetic, erratic conception of life, she assumed that she
                            could overcome her mother and that she and Eugene could live together
                            somewhere in peace. Her friends might either be unaware of the
                            situation, or they could be told, some of them, and they might
                            countenance it because it was so beautiful and natural!
                        Eugene heard her stirring after a time, and rose and went to her room and
                            knocked. When she opened the door almost fully dressed a thrill of pain
                            passed over his heart, for he thought that she had been intending to
                            slip away without seeing him any moreso little they really knew each
                            other. But as she stood there, a little cool or still or sober from much
                            thought and the peculiar nature of her position, she seemed more
                            beautiful than ever.
                        "You're not going, are you?" he asked, as she
                            looked up at him with inquiring eyes.
                        "I thought I'd go for a walk."
                        "Without me?"
                        "I intended to see you, if I could, or leave a note for you to
                            come to me. I thought you would."
                        "Will you wait for me?" he asked, feeling as though he
                            must hold her close forever in order to live. "Just a little
                            bit. I want to change my clothes." He took her in his arms.
                        "Yes," she said softly.
                        "You won't go without me?"
                        "No. Why do you ask?"
                        "Oh, I love you so!" he replied, and pushed her head
                            back and looked yearningly into her eyes.
                        She took his tired face between her hands and studied his eyes. She was
                            so enrapt by him now in this first burst of affection that she could see
                            nothing but him. He seemed so beautiful, so hungry! It did not matter to
                            her now that she was in the home of his wife or that his love was
                            complicated with so much that was apparently evil. She loved him. She
                            had thought all night about him, not sleeping. Being so young, it was
                            hard for her to reason clearly as yet, but somehow it seemed to her that
                            he was very unhappily placed, terribly ill-mated, and that he needed
                            her. He was so fine, so clean, so capable! If he did not want Angela,
                            why should she want him? She would not be suffering  for anything save his company, and why should she want to
                            hold him? She, Suzanne, would not, if she were in Angela's
                            place. If there were a child, would that make any real difference? He
                            did not love her.
                        "Don't worry about me," she said reassuringly.
                            "I love you. Don't you know I do? I have to talk to
                            you. We have to talk. How is Mrs. Witla?"
                        She was thinking about what Mrs. Witla would do, whether she would call
                            up her mother, whether her struggle to have Eugene would begin at
                            once.
                        "Oh, she's about the same!" he said wearily.
                            "We've had a long argument. I've told her
                            just what I propose to do, but I'll tell you about that
                            later."
                        He went away to change his clothes, and then stepped into
                            Angela's room.
                        "I'm going to walk with Suzanne," he said
                            dominantly, when he was ready.
                        "All right," said Angela, who was so tired she could
                            have fainted. "Will you be back for dinner?"
                        "I don't know," he replied. "What
                            difference does it make?"
                        "Only this: that the maid and cook need not stay unless you are
                            coming. I want nothing."
                        "When will the nurse be here?"
                        "At seven."
                        "Well, you can prepare dinner, if you wish," he said.
                            "I will try and be back by four."
                        He walked toward the studio where Suzanne was, and found her waiting,
                            white-faced, slightly hollow-eyed, but strong and confident. Now, as so
                            often before, he noticed that spirit of self-sufficiency and reliance
                            about her young body which had impressed him so forcibly and
                            delightfully in the past. She was a wonderful girl, this Suzanne, full
                            of grit and ability, although raised under what might have been deemed
                            enervating circumstances. Her statement, made under pressure the night
                            before, that she must go to a hotel and not go home until she could
                            straighten out her affairs, had impressed him greatly. Why had she
                            thought of going out in the world to work for herself unless there were
                            something really fine about her? She was heir to a fortune under her
                            father's will, he had heard her mother say once. This morning
                            her glance was so assured. He did not use the phone to call a car, but
                            strolled out into the drive with her walking along the stone wall which
                            commanded the river northward toward Grant's Tomb. It occurred
                            to him that they might go to Claremont Inn for breakfast, and afterwards
                            take a car  somewherehe did not know quite
                            where. Suzanne might be recognized. So might he.
                        "What shall we do, sweet?" he asked, as the cool
                            morning air brushed their faces. It was a glorious day.
                        "I don't care," replied Suzanne. "I
                            promised to be at the Almerdings some time today, but I didn't
                            say when. They won't think anything of it if I don't
                            get there till after dinner. Will Mrs. Witla call up mama?"
                        "I don't think so. In fact, I'm sure she
                            won't." He was thinking of his last conversation with
                            Angela, when she said she would do nothing. "Is your mother
                            likely to call you up?"
                        "I think not. Mama doesn't usually bother when she
                            knows where I am going. If she does, they'll simply say I
                            haven't come yet. Will Mrs. Witla tell her, if she calls up
                            there?"
                        "I think not," he said. "No, I'm sure
                            she won't. Angela wants time to think. She isn't going
                            to do anything. She told me that this morning. She's going to
                            wait until she sees what I am going to do. It all depends now on how we
                            play our cards."
                        He strolled on, looking at the river and holding Suzanne's hand.
                            It was only a quarter to seven and the drive was comparatively
                            empty.
                        "If she tells mama, it will make things very bad," said
                            Suzanne thoughtfully. "Do you really think she
                            won't?"
                        "I'm sure she won't. I'm positive.
                            She doesn't want to do anything yet. It's too
                            dangerous. I think she thinks that maybe I will come round. Oh, what a
                            life I've led! It seems like a dream, now that I have your
                            love. You are so different, so generous! Your attitude is so unselfish!
                            To have been ruled all these years in every little thing. This last
                            trick of hers!"
                        He shook his head woefully. Suzanne looked at his weary face, her own as
                            fresh as the morning.
                        "Oh, if I might only have had you to begin with!" he
                            added.
                        "Listen, Eugene," said Suzanne. "You know I
                            feel sorry for Mrs. Witla. We shouldn't have done what we did
                            last night, but you made me. You know you will never listen to me, until
                            it's too late. You're so headstrong! I don't
                            want you to leave Mrs. Witla unless you want to. You needn't
                            for me. I don't want to marry you; not now, anyhow.
                            I'd rather just give myself to you, if you want me to. I want
                            time though, to think and plan. If mama should hear today, there would
                            be a terrible time. If we have time to think, we may bring her round. I
                            don't care anything about what Mrs. Witla told you last night.
                            I don't want you to leave her. If we could just arrange some
                            way. It's mama, you know."
                        
                        She swung his hand softly in hers, pressing his fingers. She was deep in
                            thought, for her mother presented a real problem.
                        "You know," she went on, "mama isn't
                            narrow. She doesn't believe much in marriage unless
                            it's ideal. Mrs. Witla's condition wouldn't
                            make so much difference if only the child were here. I've been
                            thinking about that. Mama might sanction some arrangement if she thought
                            it would make me happy and there was no scandal. But I'll have
                            to have time to talk to her. It can't be done right
                            away."
                        Eugene listened to this with considerable surprise, as he did to
                            everything Suzanne volunteered. She seemed to have been thinking about
                            these questions along time. She was not free with her opinions. She
                            hesitated and halted between words and in her cogitations, but when they
                            were out this was what they came to. He wondered how sound they
                            were.
                        "Suzanne," he said, "you take my breath away!
                            How you think! Do you know what you're talking about? Do you
                            know your mother at all well?"
                        "Mama? Oh, yes, I think I understand mama. You know
                            she's very peculiar. Mama is literary and romantic. She talks a
                            great deal about liberty, but I don't take in everything she
                            says. I think mama is different from most womenshe's
                            exceptional. She likes me, not so much as a daughter as a person.
                            She's anxious about me. You know, I think I'm stronger
                            than mama. I think I could dominate her if I tried. She leans on me now
                            a lot, and she can't make me do anything unless I want to. I
                            can make her come to my way of thinking, I believe. I have, lots of
                            times. That's what makes me think I might now, if I have time.
                            It will take time to get her to do what I want."
                        "How much time?" asked Eugene thoughtfully.
                        "Oh, I don't know. Three months. Six months. I
                            can't tell. I would like to try, though."
                        "And if you can't, then what?"
                        "Why, thenwhy, then I'll defy her, that's all.
                            I'm not sure, you know. But I think I can.
                        "And if you can't?"
                        "But I can. I'm sure I can." She tossed her
                            head gaily.
                        "And come to me?"
                        "And come to you."
                        They were near One Hundredth Street, under the trees. There was a lone
                            man some distance away, walking from them. Eugene caught Suzanne in his
                            arms and implanted a kiss upon her mouth. "Oh, you
                            divinity!" he exclaimed. "Helen!
                        
                        "No," she replied, with smiling eyes. "No, not
                            here. Wait till we get a car."
                        "Shall we go to Claremont?"
                        "I'm not hungry."
                        "Then we might as well call a car and ride."
                        They hunted a garage and sped northward, the wonderful wind of the
                            morning cooling and refreshing their fevered senes. Both he and Suzanne
                            were naturally depressed at moments, at other moments preternaturally
                            gay, for he was varying between joy and fear, and she was buoying him
                            up. Her attitude was calmer, surer, braver, than his. She was like a
                            strong mother to him.
                        "You know," he said, "I don't know
                            what to think at times. I haven't any particular charge against
                            Mrs. Witla except that I don't love her. I have been so
                            unhappy. What do you think of cases of this kind, Suzanne? You heard
                            what she said about me."
                        "Yes, I heard."
                        "It all comes from that. I don't love her. I never have
                            really from the beginning. What do you think where there is no love? It
                            is true, part of what she said. I have been in love with other women,
                            but it has always been because I have been longing for some sort of
                            temperament that was congenial to me. I have, Suzanne, too, since I have
                            been married. I can't say that I was really in love with
                            Carlotta Wilson, but I did like her. She was very much like myself. The
                            other was a girl somewhat like you. Not so wise. That was years ago. Oh,
                            I could tell you why! I love youth. I love beauty. I want someone who is
                            my companion mentally. You are that, Suzanne, and yet see what a hell it
                            is creating. Do you think it is so bad where I am so very unhappy? Tell
                            me, what do you think?"
                        "Why, why," said Suzanne, "I don't
                            think anyone ought to stick by a bad bargain, Eugene."
                        "Just what do you mean by that, Suzanne?"
                        "Well, you say you don't love her. You're not
                            happy with her. I shouldn't think it would be good for her or
                            you to have you stay with her. She can live. I wouldn't want
                            you to stay with me if you didn't love me. I wouldn't
                            want you at all if you didn't. I wouldn't want to stay
                            with you if I didn't love you, and I wouldn't. I think
                            marriage ought to be a happy bargain, and if it isn't you
                            oughtn't to try to stay together just because you thought you
                            could stay together once."
                        "What if there were children?"
                        "Well. that might be different. Even then, one or the other  could take them, wouldn't you
                            think? The children needn't be made very unhappy in such a
                            case."
                        Eugene looked at Suzanne's lovely face. It seemed so strange to
                            hear her reasoning so solemnlythis girl!
                        "But you heard what she said about me, Suzanne, and about her
                            condition?"
                        "I know," she said. "I've thought
                            aboutit. I don't see that it makes so very much difference. You
                            can take care of her."
                        "You love me just as much?"
                        "Yes."
                        "Even if all she says is true?"
                        "Yes."
                        "Why, Suzanne?"
                        "Well, all her charges concerned years gone by, and that
                            isn't now. And I know you love me now. I don't care
                            about the past. You know, Eugene, I don't care anything about
                            the future, either. I want you to love me only so long as you want to
                            love me. When you are tired of me, I want you to leave me. I
                            wouldn't want you to live with me if you didn't love
                            me. I wouldn't want to live with you if I didn't love
                            you."
                        Eugene looked into her face, astonished, pleased, invigorated, and
                            heartened by this philosophy. It was so like Suzanne, he thought. She
                            seemed to have reached definite and effective conclusions so early. Her
                            young mind seemed a solvent for all life's difficulties.
                        "Oh, you wonderful girl!" he said. "You know
                            you are wiser than I am, stronger. I draw to you, Suzanne, like a cold
                            man to a fire. You are so kindly, so temperate, so
                            understanding!"
                        They rode on toward Tarrytown and Scarborough, and on the way Eugene told
                            Suzanne some of his plans. He was willing not to leave Angela, if that
                            was agreeable to her. He was willing to maintain this outward show, if
                            that was satisfactory. The only point was, could he stay and have her,
                            too? He did not understand quite how she could want to share him with
                            anybody, but he could not fathom her from any point of view, and he was
                            fascinated. She seemed the dearest, the subtlest, the strangest and most
                            lovable girl. He tried to find out by what process she proposed to
                            overcome the objections of her mother, but Suzanne seemed to have no
                            plans save that of her ability to gradually get the upper hand mentally
                            and dominate her. "You know," she said at one point,
                            "I have money coming to me. Papa set aside two hundred thousand
                            dollars for each of us children when  we
                            should come of age, and I am of age now. It is to be held in trust, but
                            I shall have twelve thousand or maybe more from that. We can use that. I
                            am of age now, and I have never said anything about it. Mama has managed
                            all these things."
                        Here was another thought which heartened Eugene. With Suzanne he would
                            have this additional income, which might be used whatever else might
                            betide. If only Angela could be made to accept his conditions and
                            Suzanne could win in her contest with her mother all would be well. His
                            position need not be jeopardized. Mrs. Dale need hear nothing of it at
                            present. He and Suzanne could go on associating in this way until an
                            understanding had been reached. It was all like a delightful courtship
                            which was to bloom into a still more delightful marriage.
                        The day passed in assurances of affection. Suzanne told Eugene of a book
                            she had read in French, "The Blue Bird." The allegory
                            touched Eugene to the quickits quest for happiness, and he named Suzanne
                            then and there "The Blue Bird." She made him stop the
                            car and go back to get her an exquisite lavender-hued blossom growing
                            wild on a tall stalk which she saw in a field as they sped by. Eugene
                            objected genially, because it was beyond a wire fence and set among
                            thorns, but she said,
                        "Yes, now, you must. You know you must obey me now. I am going
                            to begin to train you now. You've been spoiled. You're
                            a bad boy. Mama says that. I am going to reform you."
                        "A sweet time you'll have, Flower Face! I'm a
                            bad lot. Have you noticed that?"
                        "A little."
                        "And you still like me?"
                        "I don't mind. I think I can change you by loving
                            you."
                        Eugene went gladly. He plucked the magnificent bloom and handed it to her
                            "as a sceptre," he said. "It looks like you,
                            you know," he added. "It's
                            regal."
                        Suzanne accepted the compliment without thought of its flartering import.
                            She loved Eugene, and words had scarcely any meaning to her. She was as
                            happy as a child and as wise in many things as a woman twice her years.
                            She was as foolish as Eugene over the beauty of nature, dwelling in an
                            ecstasy upon morning and evening skies, the feel of winds and the sigh
                            of leaves. The beauties of nature at every turn caught her eye, and she
                            spoke to him of things she felt in such a simple way that he was
                            entranced.
                        Once when they had left the car and were walking about the grounds of an
                            inn, she found that one of her silk stockings had  worn through at the heel. She lifted up her foot and
                            looked at it meditatively. "Now, if I had some ink I could fix
                            that up so quickly," she said, laughing.
                        "What would you do?" he asked.
                        "I would black it," she replied, referring to her pink
                            heel, "or you could paint it."
                        He laughed and she giggled. It was these little, idle simplicities which
                            amused and fascinated him.
                        "Suzanne," he said dramatically at this time,
                            "you are taking me back into fairyland.
                        "I want to make you happy," she said, "as
                            happy as I am."
                        "If I could be! If I only could be!"
                        "Wait," she said; "be cheerful. Don't
                            worry. Everything will come out all right. I know it will. Things always
                            come right for me. I want you and you will come to me. You will have me
                            just as I will have you. Oh, it is all so beautiful!"
                        She squeezed his hand in an ecstasy of delight and then gave him her
                            lips.
                        "What if someone should see?" he asked.
                        "I don't care! I don't care!" she
                            cried. "I love you!"
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XII
                        AFTER dining joyously, these two returned to the city. Suzanne, as she
                            neared New York proper, was nervous as to what Angela might have done,
                            for she wanted, in case Angela told her mother, to be present, in order
                            to defend herself. She had reached a rather logical conclusion for her,
                            and that was, in case her mother objected too vigorously, to elope with
                            Eugene. She wanted to see just how her mother would take the
                            intelligence in order that she might see clearly what to do. Previously
                            she had the feeling that she could persuade her mother not to interfere,
                            even in the face of all that had been revealed. Nevertheless, she was
                            nervous, and her fears were bred to a certain extent by
                            Eugene's attitude.
                        In spite of all his bravado, he really did not feel at all secure. He was
                            not afraid of what he might lose materially so much as he was of losing
                            Suzanne. The thought of the coming child had not affected them at all as
                            yet. He could see clearly that conditions might come about whereby he
                            could not have her, but they were not in evidence as yet. Besides,
                            Angela might be lying. Still at odd moments his conscience troubled him,
                            for in the midst of his intense satisfaction, his keenest thrills of
                            joy, he could see Angela lying in bed, the thought of her wretched
                            future before her, the thought of the coming life troubling her, or he
                            could hear the echo of some of the pleas she had made. It was useless to
                            attempt to shut them out. This was a terrible ordeal he was undergoing,
                            a ruthless thing he was doing. All the laws of life and public sentiment
                            were against him. If the world knew, it would accuse him bitterly. He
                            could not forget that. He despaired at moments of ever being able to
                            solve the tangle in which he had involved himself, and yet he was
                            determined to go on. He proposed accompanying Suzanne to her friends,
                            the Almerdings, but she changed her mind and decided to go home.
                            "I want to see whether mama has heard anything," she
                            insisted.
                        Eugene had to escort her to Staten Island and then order the chauffeur to
                            put on speed so as to reach Riverside by four. He was somewhat
                            remorseful, but he argued that his love-life was so long over, in so far
                            as Angela was concerned, that it could not really make so very much
                            difference. Since Suzanne wanted to wait a little time and proceed
                            slowly, it was not going to be as  bad for
                            Angela as he had anticipated. He was going to give her a choice of going
                            her way and leaving him entirely, either now, or after the child was
                            born, giving her the half of his property, stocks, ready money, and
                            anything else that might be divisible, and all the furniture, or staying
                            and tacitly ignoring the whole thing. She would know what he was going
                            to do, to maintain a separate mnage, or secret rendezvous for Suzanne.
                            He proposed since Suzanne was so generous not to debate this point, but
                            to insist. He must have her, and Angela must yield, choosing only her
                            conditions.
                        When he came to the house, a great change had come over Angela. In the
                            morning when he left she was hard and bitter in her mood. This afternoon
                            she was, albeit extremely sad, more soft and melting than he had ever
                            seen her. Her hard spirit was temporarily broken, but in addition she
                            had tried to resign herself to the inevitable and to look upon it as the
                            will of God. Perhaps she had been, as Eugene had often accused her of
                            being, hard and cold. Perhaps she had held him in too tight leading
                            strings. She had meant it for the best. She had tried to pray for light
                            and guidance, and after a while something softly sad, like a
                            benediction, settled upon her. She must not fight any more, she thought.
                            She must yield. God would guide her. Her smile, kindly and wan, when
                            Eugene entered the room, took him unawares.
                        Her explanation of her mood, her prayers, her willingness to give him up
                            if need be, even in the face of what was coming to her, moved him more
                            than anything that had ever passed between them. He sat opposite her at
                            dinner, looking at her thin hands and face, and her sad eyes, trying to
                            be cheerful and considerate, and then, going back into her room and
                            hearing her say she would do whatever he deemed best, burst into tears.
                            He cried from an excess of involuntary and uncontrolled emotion. He
                            hardly knew why he cried, but the sadness of everythinglife, the tangle
                            of human emotions, the proximity of death to all, old age, Suzanne,
                            Angela, alltouched him, and he shook as though he would rend his sides.
                            Angela, in turn, was astonished and grieved for him. She could scarcely
                            believe her eyes. Was he repenting? "Come to me,
                            Eugene!" she pleaded. "Oh, I'm so sorry! Are you as much in love as that? Oh, dear, dear, if I
                            could only do something! Don't cry like that, Eugene. If it
                            means so much to you, I will give you up. It tears my heart to hear you.
                            Oh, dear, please don't cry."
                        He laid his head on his knees and shook, then seeing her getting up, came
                            over to the bed to prevent her.
                        
                        "No, no," he said, "it will pass. I
                            can't help it. I'm sorry for you. I'm sorry
                            for myself. I'm sorry for life. God will punish me for this. I
                            can't help it, but you are a good woman."
                        He laid his head down beside her and sobbed, great, aching sobs. After a
                            time he recovered himself, only to find that he had given Angela courage
                            anew. She would think now that his love might be recovered since he had
                            seemed so sympathetic; that Suzanne might be displaced. He knew that
                            could not be, and so he was sorry that he had cried.
                        They went on from that to discussion, to argument, to ill-feeling, to
                            sympathetic agreement again by degrees, only to fall out anew. Angela
                            could not resign herself to the thought of giving him up. Eugene could
                            not see that he was called upon to do anything, save divide their joint
                            possessions. He was most anxious to have nothing to do with Angela
                            anymore in any way. He might live in the same house, but that would be
                            all. He was going to have Suzanne. He was going to live for her only. He
                            threatened Angela with dire consequences if she tried to interfere in
                            any way. If she communicated with Mrs. Dale, o- said
                            anything to Suzanne, or attempted to injure him commercially, he would
                            leave her.
                        "Here is the situation," he would insist. "You
                            can maintain it as I say, or break it. If you break it, you lose me and
                            everything that I represent. If you maintain it, I will stay here. I
                            think I will. I am perfectly willing to keep up appearances, but I want
                            my freedom.
                        Angela thought and thought of this. She thought once of sending for Mrs.
                            Dale and communicating with her secretly, urging her to get Suzanne out
                            of the way without forewarning either the girl or Eugene, but she did
                            not do this. It was the one thing she should have done and a thing Mrs.
                            Dale would have agreed to, but fear and confusion deterred her. The next
                            thing was to write or talk to Suzanne, and because she mistrusted her
                            mood in Suzanne's presence she decided to write. She lay in bed
                            on Monday when Eugene was away at the office and composed a long letter
                            in which she practically gave the history of Eugene's life
                            reiterating her own condition and stating what she thought Eugene ought
                            to do.
                        "How can you think, Suzanne," she asked in one place,
                            "that he will be true to you when he can ignore me, in this
                            condition? He has not been true to anyone else. Are you going to throw
                            your life away? Your station is assured now. What can he add to you that
                            you have not already? If you take him, it is sure to become known. You
                            are the one who will be injured,  not he.
                            Men recover from these things, particularly from an infatuation of this
                            character, and the world thinks nothing of it; but the world will not
                            forgive you. You will be 'a bad woman' after this,
                            irretrievably so if a child is born. You think you love him. Do you
                            really love him this much? Read this and stop and think. Think of his
                            character. I am used to him. I made my mistakes in the beginning, and it
                            is too late for me to change. The world can give me nothing. I may have
                            sorrow and disgust, but at least I shall not be an outcast and our
                            friends and the world will not be scandalized. But youyou have
                            everything before you. Some man will come to you whom you will love and
                            who will not ask and willingly make a sacrifice of you. Oh, I beg you to
                            think! You do need him. After all, sorry as I am to confess it, I do. It
                            is as I tell you. Can you really afford to ignore this
                            appeal?"
                        Suzanne read this and was greatly shocked. Angela painted him in a
                            wretched light, as fickle, deceitful, dishonest in his relations with
                            women. She debated this matter in her own room, for it could not help
                            but give her pause. After a time, Eugene's face came back to
                            her, however, his beautiful mind, the atmosphere of delight and
                            perfection that seemed to envelop all that surrounded him. It was as
                            though Eugene were a mirage of beauty, so soft, so sweet, so delightful!
                            Oh, to be with him; to hear his beautiful voice; to feel his intense
                            caresses! What could life offer her equal to that? And, besides, he
                            needed her. She decided to talk it out with him, show him the letter,
                            and then decide.
                        Eugene came in a day or two, having phoned Monday and Tuesday mornings.
                            He made a rendezvous of the ice house, and then appeared as eager and
                            smiling as ever. Since returning to the office and seeing no immediate
                            sign of a destructive attitude on Angela's part, he had
                            recovered his courage. He was hopeful of a perfect dnouement to all
                            thisof a studio and his lovely Suzanne. When they were seated in the
                            auto, she immediately produced Angela's letter and handed it to
                            him without comment. Eugene read it quietly.
                        He was greatly shocked at what he read, for he thought that Angela was
                            more kindly disposed toward him. Still he knew it to be true, all of it,
                            though he was not sure that Suzanne would suffer from his attentions.
                            The fates might be kind. They might be happy together. Anyhow, he wanted
                            her now.
                        "Well," he said, giving it back, "what of it?
                            Do you believe all she says?"
                        "It may be so, but somehow when I am with you I don't
                            seem  to care. When I am away from you,
                            it's different. I'm not so sure."
                        "You can't tell whether I am as good as you think I
                            am?"
                        "I don't know what to think. I suppose all she says
                            about you is true. I'm not sure. When you're away,
                            it's different. When you are here, I feel as though everything
                            must come out right. I love you so. Oh, I know it will!" She
                            threw her arms around him.
                        "Then the letter doesn't really make any
                            difference?"
                        "No."
                        She looked at him with big round eyes, and it was the old story, bliss in
                            affection without thought. They rode miles, stopped at an inn for
                            something to eatMrs. Dale was away for the daylooked at the sea where
                            the return road skirted it, and kissed and kissed each other. Suzanne
                            grew so ecstatic that she could see exactly how it was all coming
                            out.
                        "Now you leave it to me," she said. "I will
                            sound mama. If she is at all logical, I think I can convince her. I
                            would so much rather do it that way. I hate deception. I would rather
                            just tell her, and then, if I have to, defy her. I don't think
                            I shall have to, though. She can't do anything."
                        "I don't know about that," said Eugene
                            cautiously. He had come to have great respect for Suzanne's
                            courage, and he was rather relying on Mrs. Dale's regard for
                            him to stay her from any desperate course, but he did not see how their
                            end was to be achieved.
                        He was for entering on an illicit relationship after a time without
                            saying anything at all. He was in no hurry, for his feeling for Suzanne
                            was not purely physical, though he wanted her. Because of her strange
                            reading and philosophy, she was defying the world. She insisted that she
                            did not see how it would hurt her.
                        "But, my dear, you don't know life," said
                            Eugene. "It will hurt you. It will grind you to pieces in all
                            places outside of New York. This is the Metropolis. It is a world city.
                            Things are not quite the same here, but you will have to pretend,
                            anyhow. It is so much easier."
                        "Can you protect me?" she asked significantly,
                            referring to the condition Angela pleaded. "I wouldn't
                            wantI couldn't, you know, not yet, not yet."
                        "I understand," he said. "Yes, I can,
                            absolutely."
                        "Well, I want to think about it,"she said again.
                            "I prefer so much to be honest about it. I would so much rather
                            just tell mama, and then go and do it. It would be so much nicer.  My life is my own to do with as I please.
                            It doesn't concern anybody, not even mama. You know, if I want
                            to waste it, I may, only I don't think that I am doing so. I
                            want to live as I choose. I don't want to get married
                            yet."
                        Eugene listened to her with the feeling that this was the most curious
                            experience of his life. He had never heard, never seen, never
                            experienced anything like it. The case of Christina Channing was
                            different. She had her art to consider. Suzanne had nothing of the sort.
                            She had a lovely home, a social future, money, the chance of a happy,
                            stable, normal life. This was love surely, and yet he was quite at sea.
                            Still so many favorable things had happened, consciously favorable, that
                            he was ready to believe that all this was intended for his benefit by a
                            kind, governing providence.
                        Angela had practically given in already. Why not Suzanne's
                            mother? Angela would not tell her anything. Mrs. Dale was not any
                            stronger than Angela apparently. Suzanne might be able to control her as
                            she said. If she was so determined to try, could he really stop her? She
                            was headstrong in a way and wilful, but developing rapidly and reasoning
                            tremendously. Perhaps she could do this thing. Who could tell? They came
                            flying back along lovely lanes where the trees almost swept their faces,
                            past green stretches of marsh where the wind stirred in ripples the tall
                            green cat grass, past pretty farm yards, with children and ducks in the
                            foreground, beautiful mansions, playing children, sauntering laborers.
                            All the while they were reassuring each other, vowing perfect affection,
                            holding each other close. Suzanne, as Angela had, loved to take
                            Eugene's face between her hands and look into his eyes.
                        "Look at me," she said once when he had dolefully
                            commented upon the possibility of change. "Look straight into
                            my eyes. What do you see?"
                        "Courage and determination," he said.
                        "What else?"
                        "Love."
                        "Do think I will change?"
                        "No."
                        "Surely?"
                        "No."
                        "Well, look at me straight, Eugene. I won't. I
                            won't, do you hear? I'm yours until you don't
                            want me anymore. Now will you be happy?"
                        "Yes," he said.
                        "And when we get our studio," she went on.
                        
                        "When we get our studio," he said,
                            "we'll furnish it perfectly, and entertain a little
                            after a while, maybe. You'll be my lovely Suzanne, my Flower
                            Face, my Myrtle Blossom. Helen, Circe, Dianeme."
                        "I'll be your week-end bride," she laughed,
                            "your odd or even girl, whichever way the days
                            fall."
                        "If it only comes true," he exclaimed when they parted.
                            "If it only does."
                        "Wait and see," she said. "Now you wait and
                            see."
                        The days passed and Suzanne began what she called her campaign. Her first
                            move was to begin to talk about the marriage question at the dinner
                            table, or whenever she and her mother were alone, and to sound her on
                            this important question, putting her pronouncements on record. Mrs. Dale
                            was one of those empirical thinkers who love to philosophize generally,
                            but who make no specific application of anything to their own affairs.
                            On this marriage question she held most liberal and philosophic views
                            for all outside her own immediate family. It was her idea, outside her
                            own family, of course, that if a girl having reached maturity, and what
                            she considered a sound intellectual majority, and who was not by then
                            satisfied with the condition which matrimony offered, if she loved no
                            man desperately enough to want to marry him and could arrange some way
                            whereby she could satisfy her craving for love without jeopardizing her
                            reputation, that was her lookout. So far as Mrs. Dale was concerned, she
                            had no particular objection. She knew women in society, who, having made
                            unfortunate marriages, or marriages of convenience. sustained some such
                            relationship to men whom they admired. There was a subtle, under the
                            surface understanding outside the society circles of the most rigid
                            morality in regard to this, and there was the fast set, of which she was
                            at times a welcome member, which laughed at the severe conventions of
                            the older school. One must be carefulvery. One must not be caught. But,
                            otherwise, well, every person's life was a law unto him or
                            herself.
                        Suzanne never figured in any of these theories, for Suzanne was a
                            beautiful girl, capable of an exalted alliance, and her daughter. She
                            did not care to marry her off to any wretched possessor of great wealth
                            or title, solely for wealth's or title's sake, but she
                            was hoping that some eligible young man of excellent social standing or
                            wealth, or real personal ability, such, for instance, as Eugene
                            possessed, would come along and marry Suzanne. There would be a grand
                            wedding at a church of some prominence,St. Bartholomew's, very
                            likely; a splendid wedding  dinner, oceans
                            of presents, a beautiful honeymoon. She used to look at Suzanne and
                            think what a delightful mother she would make. She was so young, robust,
                            vigorous, able, and in a quiet way, passionate. She could tell when she
                            danced how eagerly she took life. The young man would come. It would not
                            be long. These lovely springtimes would do their work one of these days.
                            As it was, there were a score of men already who would have given an eye
                            to attract Suzanne's attention, but Suzanne would none of them.
                            She seemed shy, coy, elusive, but above all, shy. Her mother had no idea
                            of the iron will all this concealed any more than she had of the hard
                            anarchic, unsocial thoughts that were surging in her daughter's
                            brain.
                        "Do you think a girl ought to marry at all, mama?"
                            Suzanne asked her one evening when they were alone together,
                            "if she doesn't regard marriage as a condition she
                            could endure all her days?"
                        "No-o," replied her mother. "What makes you
                            ask?"
                        "Well, you see so much trouble among married people that we
                            know. They're not very happy together. Wouldn't it be
                            better if a person just stayed single, and if they found someone that
                            they could really love, well, they needn't necessarily marry to
                            be happy, need they?"
                        "What have you been reading lately, Suzanne?" asked her
                            mother, looking up with a touch of surprise in her eyes.
                        "Nothing lately. What makes you ask?" said Suzanne
                            wisely, noting the change in her mother's voice.
                        "With whom have you been talking?"
                        "Why, what difference does that make, mama? I've heard
                            you express precisely the same views?"
                        "Quite so. I may have. But don't you think
                            you're rather young to be thinking of things like that? I
                            don't say all that I think when I'm arguing things
                            philosophically. There are conditions which govern everything. If it
                            were impossible for a girl to marry well, or if looks or lack of money
                            interfered,there are plenty of reasonsa thing like that might possibly
                            be excusable, but why should you be thinking of that?"
                        "Why, it doesn't necessarily follow, mama, that because
                            I am good looking, or have a little money, or am socially eligible, that
                            I should want to get married. I may not want to get married at all. I
                            see just as well as you do how things are with most people. Why
                            shouldn't I? Do I have to keep away from every man,
                            then?"
                        "Why, Suzanne! I never heard you argue like this before. You
                            must have been talking with someone or reading  some outr book of late. I wish you wouldn't. You
                            are too young and too good looking to entertain any such ideas. Why, you
                            can have nearly any young man you wish. Surely you can find someone with
                            whom you can live happily or with whom you would be willing to try.
                            It's time enough to think about the other things when
                            you've tried and failed. At least you can give yourself ample
                            time to learn something about life before you begin to talk such
                            nonsense. You're too young. Why it's
                            ridiculous."
                        "Mama," said Suzanne, with the least touch of temper,
                            "I wish you wouldn't talk to me like that.
                            I'm not a child any more. I'm a woman. I think like a
                            womannot like a girl. You forget that I have a mind of my own and some
                            thoughts. I may not want to get married. I don't think I do.
                            Certainly not to any of the silly creatures that are running after me
                            now. Why shouldn't I take some man in an independent way, if I
                            wish? Other women have before me. Even if they hadn't, it would
                            be no reason why I shouldn't. My life is my own."
                        "Suzanne Dale!" exclaimed her mother, rising, a thrill
                            of terror passing along her heartstrings. "What are you talking
                            about? Are you basing these ideas on anything I have said in the past?
                            Then certainly my chickens are coming home to roost early. You are in no
                            position to consider whether you want to get married or not. You have
                            seen practically nothing of men. Why should you reach any such
                            conclusions now? For goodness' sake, Suzanne, don't
                            begin so early to meditate on these terrible things. Give yourself a few
                            years in which to see the world. I don't ask you to marry, but
                            you may meet some man whom you could love very much, and who would love
                            you. If you were to go and throw yourself away under some such silly
                            theory as you entertain now, without stopping to see, or waiting for
                            life to show you what it has in store, what will you have to offer him.
                            Suzanne, Suzanne"Suzanne was turning impatiently to a
                            window"you frighten me! There isn't, there
                            couldn't be. Oh, Suzanne, I beg of you, be careful what you
                            think, what you say, what you do! I can't know all your
                            thoughts, no mother can, but, oh, if you will stop and think, and wait a
                            while!"
                        She looked at Suzanne who walked to a mirror and began to fix a bow in
                            her hair.
                        "Mama," she said calmly. "Really, you amuse
                            me. When you are out with people at dinner, you talk one way, and when
                            you are here with me, you talk another. I haven't done anything
                            desperate yet. I don't know what I may want to do.  I'm not a child any more, mama.
                            Please remember that. I'm a woman grown, and I certainly can
                            lay out my life for myself. I'm sure I don't want to
                            do what you are doingtalk one thing and do another."
                        Mrs. Dale recoiled intensely from this stab. Suzanne had suddenly
                            developed in the line of her argument a note of determination, frank
                            force and serenity of logic which appalled her. Where had the girl got
                            all this? With whom had she been associating? She went over in her mind
                            the girls and men she had met and known. Who were her intimate
                            companions?Vera Almerding; Lizette Woodworth; Cora TenEycka half dozen
                            girls who were smart and clever and socially experienced. Were they
                            talking such things among themselves? Was there some man or men unduly
                            close to them? There was one remedy for all this. It must be acted on
                            quickly if Suzanne were going to fall in with and imbibe any such ideas
                            as these. Traveltwo or three years of incessant travel with her, which
                            would cover this dangerous period in which girls were so susceptible to
                            undue influence was the necessary thing. Oh, her own miserable tongue!
                            Her silly ideas! No doubt all she said was true. Generally it was so.
                            But Suzanne! Her Suzanne, never! She would take her away while she had
                            time, to grow older and wiser through experience. Never would she be
                            permitted to stay here where girls and men were talking and advocating
                            any such things. She would scan Suzanne's literature more
                            closely from now on. She would viser her friendships. What a pity that
                            so lovely a girl must be corrupted by such wretched, unsocial,
                            anarchistic notions. Why, what would become of her girl? Where would she
                            be? Dear Heaven!
                        She looked down in the social abyss yawning at her feet and recoiled with
                            horror.
                        Never, never, never! Suzanne should be saved from herself, from all such
                            ideas now and at once.
                        And she began to think how she could introduce the idea of travel easily
                            and nicely. She must lure Suzanne to go without alarming herwithout
                            making her think that she was bringing pressure to bear. But from now on
                            there must be a new order established. She must talk differently; she
                            must act differently. Suzanne and all her children must be protected
                            against themselves and others also. That was the lesson which this
                            conversation taught her.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XIII
                        EUGENE and Angela had been qurrreling between themselves most bitterly;
                            at other times Angela was attempting to appeal to his sense of justice
                            and fair play, if not his oldtime affection, in the subtlest of ways.
                            She was completely thrown out of her old methods of calculation, and
                            having lost those had really no traditions on which to proceed. Eugene
                            had always heretofore apparently feared her wrath; now he cared nothing
                            for that. He had been subject, in times past, to a certain extent to
                            those alluring blandishments which the married will understand well
                            enough, but these were as ashes. Her charms meant nothing to him. She
                            had hoped that the thought of a coming child would move him, but no, it
                            was apparently without avail. Suzanne seemed a monster to her now since
                            she did not desert him, and Eugene a raving maniac almost, and yet she
                            could see how human and natural it all was. He was hypnotized,
                            possessed. He had one thought, Suzanne, Suzanne, and he would fight her
                            at every turn for that. He told her so. He told her of her letter to
                            Suzanne, and the fact that he had read and destroyed it. It did not help
                            her cause at all. She knew that she had decried him. He stood his ground
                            solidly, awaiting the will of Suzanne, and he saw Suzanne frequently,
                            telling her that he had won completely, and that the fulfilment of their
                            desires now depended upon her.
                        As has been said, Suzanne was not without passion. The longer she
                            associated with Eugene, the more eager she became for that joyous
                            fulfilment which his words, his looks, his emotions indicated. In her
                            foolish, girlish way, she had built up a fancy which was capable of
                            realization only by the most ruthless and desperate conduct. Her theory
                            of telling her mother and overcoming her by argument or defiance was
                            really vain, for it could not be settled so easily, or so quickly.
                            Because of her mother's appeal to her in this first
                            conversation, she fancied she had won a substantial victory. Her mother
                            was subject to her control and could not defeat her in argument. By the
                            latter token she felt she was certain to win. Besides, she was counting
                            heavily on her mother's regard for Eugene and her deep
                            affection for herself. Hitherto, her mother had really refused her
                            nothing.
                        
                        The fact that Eugene did not take her outright at this time,postponing
                            until a more imperative occasion an adjustment of the difficulties which
                            must necessarily flow from their attempted union without marriagewas due
                            to the fact that he was not as desperate or as courageous as he appeared
                            to be. He wanted her but he was a little afraid of Suzanne herself. She
                            was doubtful, anxious to wait, anxious to plan things her own way. He
                            was not truly ruthless ever, but good natured and easy going. He was no
                            subtle schemer and planner, but rather an easy natured soul, who drifted
                            here and there with all the tides and favorable or unfavorable winds of
                            circumstance. He might have been ruthless if he had been eager enough
                            for any one particular thing on this earth, money, fame, affection, but
                            at bottom, he really did not care as much as he thought he did. Anything
                            was really worth fighting for if you had to have it, but it was not
                            worth fighting for to the bitter end, if you could possibly get along
                            without it. Besides, there was nothing really one could not do without,
                            if one were obliged. He might long intensely, but he could survive. He
                            was more absorbed in this desire than in anything else in his history,
                            but he was not willing to be hard and grasping.
                        On the other hand, Suzanne was willing to be taken, but needed to be
                            pressed or compelled. She imagined in a vague way that she wanted to
                            wait and adjust things in her own way, but she was merely dreaming,
                            procrastinating because he was procrastinating. If he had but compelled
                            her at once she would have been happy, but he was sadly in need of that
                            desperate energy that acts first and thinks afterward. Like Hamlet, he
                            was too fond of cogitating, too anxious to seek the less desperate way,
                            and in doing this was jeopardizing that ideal bliss for which he was
                            willing to toss away all the material advantages which he had thus far
                            gained.
                        When Mrs. Dale quite casually within a few days began to suggest that
                            they leave New York for the fall and winter, she, Suzanne and Kinroy,
                            and visit first England, then Southern France and then Egypt, Suzanne
                            immediately detected something intentional about it, or at best a very
                            malicious plan on the part of fate to destroy her happiness. She had
                            been conjecturing how, temporarily, she could avoid distant and long
                            drawn out engagements which her mother not infrequently accepted for
                            herself and Suzanne outside New York, but she had not formulated a plan.
                            Mrs. Dale was very popular and much liked. This easy suggestion, made
                            with considerable assurance by her mother, and as though it would be
                            just the thing, frightened  and then
                            irritated Suzanne. Why should her mother think of it just at this
                            time?
                        "I don't want to go to Europe," she said
                            warily. "We were over there only three years ago. I'd
                            rather stay over here this winter and see what's going on in
                            New York."
                        "But this trip will be so delightful, Suzanne," her
                            mother insisted. "The Camerons are to be at Callendar in
                            Scotland for the fall. They have taken a cottage there. I had a note
                            from Louise, Tuesday. I thought we might run up there and see them and
                            then go to the Isle of Wight."
                        "I don't care to go, mama," replied Suzanne
                            determinedly. "We're settled here comfortably. Why do
                            you always want to be running off somewhere?"
                        "Why, I'm not runninghow you talk, Suzanne! I never
                            heard you object very much to going anywhere before. I should think
                            Egypt and the Riviera would interest you very much. You haven't
                            been to either of these places."
                        "I know they're delightful, but I don't care
                            to go this fall. I'd rather stay here. Why should you suddenly
                            decide that you want to go away for a year?"
                        "I haven't suddenly decided," insisted her
                            mother. "I've been thinking of it for some time, as
                            you know. Haven't I said that we would spend a winter in Europe
                            soon? The last time I mentioned it, you were very keen for
                            it."
                        "Oh, I know, mama, but that was nearly a year ago. I
                            don't want to go now. I would rather stay here."
                        "Why would you? More of your friends go away than remain. I
                            think a particularly large number of them are going this
                            winter."
                        "Ha! Ha! Ho! Ho!" laughed Suzanne. "A
                            particularly large number. How you exaggerate, mama, when you want
                            anything. You always amuse me. It's a particularly large number
                            now, just because you want to go," and she laughed again.
                        Suzanne's defiance irritated her mother. Why should she suddenly
                            take this notion to stay here? It must be this group of girls she was in
                            with, and yet, Suzanne appeared to have so few intimate girl friends.
                            The Almerdings were not going to stay in town all the winter. They were
                            here now because of a fire at their country place, but it would only be
                            for a little while. Neither were the TenEycks. It couldn't be
                            that Suzanne was interested in some man. The only person she cared much
                            about was Eugene Witla, and he was married and only friendly in a
                            brotherly, guardian-like way.
                        
                        "Now, Suzanne," she said determinedly,
                            "I'm not going to have you talk nonsense. This trip
                            will be a delightful thing for you once you have started. It's
                            useless for you to let a silly notion like not wanting to go stand in
                            your way. You are just at the time when you ought to travel. Now you had
                            better begin to prepare yourself, for we're
                            going."
                        "Oh, no, I'm not, mama," said Suzanne.
                            "Why, you talk as though I were a very little girl. I
                            don't want to go this fall and I'm not going. You may
                            go if you want to, but I'm not going."
                        "Why, Suzanne Dale!" exclaimed her mother.
                            "Whatever has come over you? Of course you'll go.
                            Where would you stay if I went? Do you think I would walk off and leave
                            you? Have I ever before?"
                        "You did when I was at boarding school," interrupted
                            Suzanne.
                        "That was a different matter. Then you were under proper
                            supervision. Mrs. Hill was answerable to me for your care. Here you
                            would be alone. What do you think I would be doing?"
                        "There you go, mama, talking as though I was a little girl
                            again. Will you please remember that I am nearly nineteen? I know how to
                            look after myself. Besides, there are plenty of people with whom I might
                            stay if I chose."
                        "Suzanne Dale, you talk like one possessed. I'll listen
                            to nothing of the sort. You are my daughter, and as such, subject to my
                            guardianship. Of what are you thinking? What have you been reading?
                            There's some silly thing at the bottom of all this.
                            I'll not go away and leave you and you will come with me. I
                            should think that after all these years of devotion on my part, you
                            would take my feelings into consideration. How can you stand there and
                            argue with me in this way?"
                        "Arguing, mama?" asked Suzanne loftily.
                            "I'm not arguing. I'm just not going. I have
                            my reasons for not wanting to go, and I'm not going,
                            that's all! Now you may go if you want to."
                        Mrs. Dale looked into Suzanne's eyes and saw for the first time
                            a gleam of real defiance in them. What had brought this about? Why was
                            her daughter so setof a sudden, so stubborn and hard? Fear, anger,
                            astonishment, mingled equally in her feelings.
                        "What do you mean by reasons?" asked her mother.
                            "What reasons have you?"
                        
                        "A very good one," said Suzanne quietly, twisting it to
                            the singular.
                        "Well, what is it then, pray?"
                        Suzanne debated swiftly and yet a little vaguely in her own mind. She had
                            hoped for a longer process of philosophic discussion in which to entrap
                            her mother into some moral and intellectual position from which she
                            could not well recede, and by reason of which she would have to grant
                            her the license she desired. From one remark and another dropped in this
                            and the preceding conversation, she realized that her mother had no
                            logical arrangement in her mind whereby she included her in her
                            philosophical calculations at all. She might favor any and every theory
                            and conclusion under the sun, but it would mean nothing in connection
                            with Suzanne. The only thing that remained, therefore, was to defy her,
                            or run away, and Suzanne did not want to do the latter. She was of age.
                            She could adjust her own affairs. She had money. Her mental point of
                            view was as good and sound as her mother's. As a matter of
                            fact, the latter's attitude, in view of Suzanne's
                            recent experience and feelings, seemed weak and futile. What did her
                            mother know of life any more than she? They were both in the world, and
                            Suzanne felt herself to be the strongerthe sounder of the two. Why not
                            tell her now and defy her. She would win. She must. She could dominate
                            her mother, and this was the time to do it.
                        "Because I want to stay near the man I love," she
                            finally volunteered quietly.
                        Mrs. Dale's hand, which had been elevated to a position of
                            gesticulation before her, dropped limp, involuntarily, to her side. Her
                            mouth opened the least bit. She stared in a surprised, anguished,
                            semi-foolish way.
                        "The man you love, Suzanne?" she asked, swept
                            completely from her moorings, and lost upon a boundless sea.
                            "Who is he?"
                        "Mr. Witla, mamaEugene. I love him and he loves me.
                            Don't stare, mama. Mrs. Witla knows. She is willing that we
                            should have each other. We love each other. I am going to stay here
                            where I can be near him. He needs me."
                        "Eugene Witla!" exclaimed her mother, breathless, a
                            look of horror in her eyes, cold fright in her tense hands.
                            "You love Eugene Witla? a married man! He loves you! Are you
                            talking to me? Eugene Witla!! You love him! Why I can't believe
                            this. I'm not in my right mind. Suzanne Dale, don't
                            stand there! Don't look at me like that! Are you telling me,
                            your mother? Tell me it isn't so! Tell me it isn't so
                            before  you drive me mad! Oh, great
                            Heavens, what am I coming to? What have I done? Eugene Witla of all men!
                            Oh, God, oh, God, oh, God!"
                        "Why do you carry on so, mama?" asked Suzanne calmly.
                            She had expected some such scene as thisnot quite so intense, so
                            hysterical, but something like it, and was, in a way, prepared for it. A
                            selfish love was her animating, governing impulsea love also that
                            stilled self, and put aside as nothing all the world and its rules.
                            Suzanne really did not know what she was doing. She was hypnotized by
                            the sense of perfection in her lover, the beauty of their love. Not
                            practical facts but the beauty of the summer, the feel of cool winds,
                            the glory of skies and sunlight and moonlight, were in her mind.
                            Eugene's arms about her, his lips to hers, meant more than all
                            the world beside. "I love him. Of course, I love him. What is
                            there so strange about that?"
                        "What is strange? Are you in your right mind? Oh, my poor, dear
                            little girl! My Suzanne! Oh, that villain! That scoundrel! To come into
                            my house and make love to you, my darling child! How should you know?
                            How could I expect you to understand? Oh, Suzanne! for my sake, for the
                            love of Heaven, hush! Never breathe it! Never say that terrible thing to
                            me again! Oh, dear! Oh, dear! Oh, dear!!! That I should live to see
                            this! My child! My Suzanne! My lovely, beautiful Suzanne! I shall die
                            unless I can stop this! I shall die! I shall die!"
                        Suzanne stared at her mother quite astonished at the violent emotion into
                            which she had cast her. Her pretty eyes were open wide, her eyebrows
                            elevated, her lips parted sweetly. She was a picture of intense classic
                            beauty, chiseled, peaceful, selfpossessed. Her brow was as smooth as
                            marble, her lips as arched as though they had never known one emotion
                            outside joy. Her look was of a quizzical, slightly amused, but not
                            supercilious character which made her more striking than ever if
                            possible.
                        "Why, mama! You think I am a child, don't you? All that
                            I say to you is true. I love Eugene. He loves me. I am going to live
                            with him as soon as it can be quietly arranged. I wanted to tell you
                            because I don't want to do anything secretly, but I propose to
                            do it. I wish you wouldn't insist on looking on me as a baby,
                            mama. I know what I am doing. I have thought it all out this long
                            time."
                        "Thought it all out!" pondered Mrs. Dale.
                            "Going to live with him when it can be arranged! Is she talking
                            of living with a man without a wedding ceremony being performed?  With a man already married! Is the child
                            stark mad? Something has turned her brain. Surely something has. This is
                            not my Suzannemy dear, lovely, entrancing Suzanne."
                        To Suzanne she exclaimed aloud:
                        "Are you talking of living with this, with this, oh, I
                            don't dare to name him. I'll die if I don't
                            get this matter straightened out; of living without a marriage ceremony
                            and without his being divorced? I can't believe that I am
                            awake. I can't! I can't!"
                        "Certainly I am," replied Suzanne. "It is all
                            arranged between us. Mrs. Witla knows. She has given her consent. I
                            expect you to give yours, if you desire me to stay here,
                            mama."
                        "Give my consent! As God is my witness! Am I alive? Is this my
                            daughter talking to me? Am I in this room here with you? I."
                            She stopped, her mouth wide open. "If it weren't so
                            horribly tragic, I should laugh. I will! I will become hysterical! My
                            brain is whirling like a wheel now. Suzanne Dale, you are insane. You
                            are madly, foolishly insane. If you do not hush and cease this terrible
                            palaver, I will have you locked up. I will have an inquiry made into
                            your sanity. This is the wildest, most horrible, most unimaginable thing
                            ever proposed to a mother. To think that I should have lived with you
                            eighteen long years, carried you in my arms, nursed you at my breast and
                            then have you stand here and tell me that you will go and live
                            unsanctioned with a man who has a good true woman now living as his
                            wife. This is the most astounding thing I have ever heard of. It is
                            unbelievable. You will not do it. You will no more do it than you will
                            fly. I will kill him! I will kill you! I would rather see you dead at my
                            feet this minute than to even think that you could have stood there and
                            proposed such a thing to me. It will never be! It will never be! I will
                            give you poison first. I will do anything, everything, but you shall
                            never see this man again. If he dares to cross this threshold, I will
                            kill him at sight. I love you. I think you are a wonderful girl, but
                            this thing shall never be. And don't you dare to attempt to
                            dissuade me. I will kill you, I tell you. I would rather see you dead a
                            thousand times. To think! To think! To think! Oh, that beast! That
                            villain! that unconscionable cur! To think that he should come into my
                            house after all my courtesy to him and do this thing to me. Wait! He has
                            position, he has distinction. I will drive him out of New York. I will
                            ruin him. I will make it impossible for him to show his face among
                            decent people. Wait and see!"
                        
                        Her face was white, her hands clenched, her teeth set. She had a keen,
                            savage beauty, much like that of a tigres when it shows its teeth. Her
                            eyes were hard and cruel and flashing. Suzanne had never imagined her
                            mother capable of such a burst of rage as this.
                        "Why, mama," she said calmly and quite unmoved,
                            "you talk as though you ruled my life completely. You would
                            like to make me feel, I suppose, that I do not dare to do what I choose.
                            I do, mama. My life is my own, not yours. You cannot frighten me. I have
                            made up my mind what I am going to do in this matter, and I am going to
                            do it. You cannot stop me. You might as well not try. If I
                            don't do it now, I will later. I love Eugene. I am going to
                            live with him. If you won't let me I will go away, but I
                            propose to live with him, and you might as well stop now trying to
                            frighten me, for you can't."
                        "Frighten you! Frighten you! Suzanne Dale, you haven't
                            the faintest, weakest conception of what you are talking about, or of
                            what I mean to do. If a breath of thisthe faintest intimation of your
                            intention were to get abroad, you would be socially ostracized. Do you
                            realize that you would not have a friend left in the worldthat all the
                            people you now know and are friendly with would go across the street to
                            avoid you? If you didn't have independent means, you
                            couldn't even get a position in an ordinary shop. Going to live
                            with him? You are going to die first, right here in my charge and in my
                            arms. I love you too much not to kill you. I would a thousand times
                            rather die with you myself. You are not going to see that man any more,
                            not once, and if he dares to show his face here, I will kill him. I have
                            said it. I mean it. Now you provoke me to action if you
                            dare."
                        Suzanne merely smiled. "How you talk, mama. You make me
                            laugh."
                        Mrs. Dale stared.
                        "Oh, Suzanne! Suzanne!" she suddenly exclaimed.
                            "Before it is too late, before I learn to hate you, before you
                            break my heart, come to my arms and tell me that you are sorrythat it is
                            all overthat it is all a vile, dark, hateful dream. Oh, my Suzanne! My
                            Suzanne!"
                        "No, mama, no. Don't come near, don't touch
                            me," said Suzanne, drawing back. "You haven't
                            any idea of what you are talking about, of what I am, or what I mean to
                            do. You don't understand me. You never did, mama. You have
                            always looked down on me in some superior way as though you  knew a great deal and I very little. It
                            isn't that way at all. It isn't true. I know what I am
                            about. I know what I am doing. I love Mr. Witla, and I am going to live
                            with him. Mrs. Witla understands. She knows how it is. You will. I
                            don't care anything at all about what people think. I
                            don't care what any society friends do. They are not making my
                            life. They are all just as narrow and selfish as they can be, anyhow.
                            Love is something different from that. You don't understand me.
                            I love Eugene, and he is going to have me, and I am going to have him.
                            If you want to try to wreck my life and his, you may, but it
                            won't make any difference. I will have him, anyhow. We might
                            just as well quit talking about it now."
                        "Quit talking about it? Quit talking about it? Indeed, I
                            haven't even begun talking yet. I am just trying to collect my
                            wits, that's all. You are raging in insanity. This thing will
                            never be. It will nev-er be. You are just a poor, deluded slip of girl,
                            whom I have failed to watch sufficiently. From now on, I will do my duty
                            by you, if God spares me. You need me. Oh, how you need me. Poor little
                            Suzanne!"
                        "Oh, hush, mama! Stop the hysteria," interrupted
                            Suzanne.
                        "I will call up Mr. Colfax. I will call up Mr. Winfield. I will
                            have him discharged. I will expose him in the newspapers. The scoundrel,
                            the villain, the thief! Oh, that I should have lived to see this day.
                            That I should have lived to have seen this day!"
                        "That's right, mama," said Suzanne, wearily.
                            "Go on. You are just talking, you know, and I know that you
                            are. You cannot change me. Talking cannot. It is silly to rave like
                            this, I think. Why won't you be quiet? We may talk, but
                            needn't scream."
                        Mrs. Dale put her hands to her temples. Her brain seemed to be
                            whirling.
                        "Never mind, now," she said. "Never mind. I
                            must have time to think. But this thing you are thinking will never be.
                            It never will be. Oh! Oh!"and she turned sobbing to the
                            window.
                        Suzanne merely stared. What a peculiar thing emotions were in peopletheir
                            emotions over morals. Here was her mother, weeping, and she was looking
                            upon the thing her mother was crying about as the most essential and
                            delightful and desirable thing. Certainly life was revealing itself to
                            her rapidly these days. Did she really love Eugene so much? Yes, yes,
                            yes, indeed. A thousand times yes. This was not a tearful emotion for
                            her, but a great, consuming, embracing joy.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XIV
                        FOR hours that night, until one, two, and three o'clock in the
                            morning; from five, six and seven on until noon and night of the next
                            day, and the next day after that and the fourth day and the fifth day,
                            the storm continued. It was a terrible, siege, heart burning, heart
                            breaking, brain racking; Mrs. Dale lost weight rapidly. The color left
                            her cheeks, a haggard look settled in her eyes. She was terrified,
                            nonplussed, driven to extremities for means wherewith to overcome
                            Suzanne's opposition and suddenly but terribly developed will.
                            No one would have dreamed that this quiet, sweet-mannered, introspective
                            girl could be so positive, convinced and unbending when in action. She
                            was as a fluid body that has become adamant. She was a creature made of
                            iron, a girl with a heart of stone; nothing moved herher
                            mother's tears, her threats of social ostracism, of final
                            destruction, of physical and moral destruction for Eugene and herself,
                            her threats of public exposure in the newspapers, of incarceration in an
                            asylum. Suzanne had watched her mother a long time and concluded that
                            she loved to talk imposingly in an easy, philosophic, at times pompous,
                            way, but that really there was very little in what she said. She did not
                            believe that her mother had true couragethat she would risk
                            incarcerating her in an asylum, or exposing Eugene to her own
                            disadvantage, let alone poisoning or killing her. Her mother loved her.
                            She would rage terribly for a time this way, then she would give in. It
                            was Suzanne's plan to wear her down, to stand her ground firmly
                            until her mother wearied and broke under the strain. Then she would
                            begin to say a few words for Eugene, and eventually by much arguing and
                            blustering, her mother would come round. Eugene would be admitted to the
                            family councils again. He and Suzanne would argue it all out together in
                            her mother's presence. They would probably agree to disagree in
                            a secret way, but she would get Eugene and he her. Oh, the wonder of
                            that joyous dnouement. It was so near now, and all for a little
                            courageous fighting. She would fight, fight until her mother broke, and
                            thenOh, Eugene, Eugene!
                        Mrs. Dale was not to be so easily overcome as Suzanne imagined. Haggard
                            and worn as she was, she was far from yielding. There was an actual
                            physical conflict between them  once when
                            Suzanne, in the height of an argument, decided that she would call up
                            Eugene on the phone and ask him to come down and help her settle the
                            discussion. Mrs. Dale was determined that she should not. The servants
                            were in the house listening, unable to catch at first the drift of the
                            situation, but knowing almost by intuition that there was a desperate
                            discussion going on. Suzanne decided to go down to the library where the
                            phone was. Mrs. Dale put her back to the door and attempted to deter
                            her. Suzanne tried to open it by pulling. Her mother unloosed her hands
                            desperately, but it was very difficult, Suzanne was so strong.
                        "For shame," she said. "For shame! To make
                            your mother contest with you. Oh, the degradation"the while she
                            was struggling. Finally, angry, hysteric tears coursed involuntarily
                            down her cheeks and Suzanne was moved at last. It was so obvious that
                            this was real bitter heart-burning on her mother's part. Her
                            hair was shaken loose on one sideher sleeve torn.
                        "Oh, my goodness! my goodness!" Mrs Dale gasped at
                            last, throwing herself in a chair and sobbing bitterly. "I
                            shall never lift my head again. I shall never lift my head
                            again."
                        Suzanne looked at her somewhat sorrowfully. "I'm sorry,
                            mama," she said, "but you have brought it all on
                            yourself. I needn't call him now. He will call me and I will
                            answer. It all comes from your trying to rule me in your way. You
                            won't realize that I am a personality also, quite as much as
                            you are. I have my life to live. It is mine to do with as I please. You
                            are not going to prevent me in the long run. You might just as well stop
                            fighting with me now. I don't want to quarrel with you. I
                            don't want to argue, but I am a grown woman, mama. Why
                            don't you listen to reason? Why don't you let me show
                            you how I feel about this? Two people loving each other have a right to
                            be with each other. It isn't anyone else's
                            concern."
                        "Anyone else's concern! Anyone else's
                            concern!" replied her mother viciously. "What
                            nonsense. What silly, love-sick drivel. If you had any idea of life, of
                            how the world is organized, you would laugh at yourself. Ten years from
                            now, one year even, you will begin to see what a terrible mistake you
                            are trying to make. You will scarcely believe that you could have done
                            or said what you are doing and saying now. Anyone else's
                            concern! Oh, Merciful Heaven! Will nothing put even a suggestion of the
                            wild, foolish, reckless character of the thing you are trying to do in
                            your mind?"
                        "But I love him, mama," said Suzanne.
                        
                        "Love! Love! You talk about love," said her mother
                            bitterly and hysterically. "What do you know about it? Do you
                            think he can be loving you when he wants to come here and take you out
                            of a good home and a virtuous social condition and wreck your life, and
                            bring you down into the mire, your life and mine, and that of your
                            sisters and brother for ever and ever? What does he know of love? What
                            do you? Think of Adele and Ninette and Kinroy. Have you no regard for
                            them? Where is your love for me and for them? Oh, I have been so afraid
                            that Kinroy might hear something of this. He would go and kill him. I
                            know he would. I couldn't prevent it. Oh, the shame, the
                            scandal, the wreck, it would involve us all in. Have you no conscience,
                            Suzanne; no heart?"
                        Suzanne stared before her calmly. The thought of Kinroy moved her a
                            little. He might kill Eugeneshe couldn't tellhe was a
                            courageous boy. Still there was no need for any killing, or exposure, or
                            excitement of any kind if her mother would only behave herself. What
                            difference did it make to her, or Kinroy, or anybody anywhere what she
                            did? Why couldn't she if she wanted to? The risk was on her
                            head. She was willing. She couldn't see what harm it would
                            do.
                        She expressed this thought to her mother once who answered in an
                            impassioned plea for her to look at the facts. "How many evil
                            women of the kind and character you would like to make of yourself, do
                            you know? How many would you like to know? How many do you suppose there
                            are in good society? Look at this situation from Mrs. Witla's
                            point of view. How would you like to be in her place? How would you like
                            to be in mine? Suppose you were Mrs. Witla and Mrs. Witla were the other
                            woman. What then?"
                        "I would let him go," said Suzanne.
                        "Yes! Yes! Yes! You would let him go. You might, but how would
                            you feel? How would anyone feel? Can't you see the shame in all
                            this, the disgrace? Have you no comprehension at all? No
                            feeling?"
                        "Oh, how you talk, mama. How silly you talk. You don't
                            know the facts. Mrs. Witla doesn't love him any more. She told
                            me so. She has written me so. I had the letter and gave it back to
                            Eugene. He doesn't care for her. She knows it. She knows he
                            cares for me. What difference does it make if she doesn't love
                            him. He's entitled to love somebody. Now I love him. I want
                            him. He wants me. Why shouldn't we have each
                            other?"
                        In spite of all her threats, Mrs. Dale was not without subsidiary  thoughts of what any public move on her
                            part would certainly, not probably, but immediately involve. Eugene was
                            well known. To kill him, which was really very far from her thoughts, in
                            any save a very secret way, would create a tremendous sensation and
                            involve no end of examination, discussion, excited publicity. To expose
                            him to either Colfax or Winfield meant in reality exposing Suzanne to
                            them, and possibly to members of her own social set, for these men were
                            of it, and might talk. Eugene's resignation would cause
                            comment. If he left, Suzanne might run away with himthen what? There was
                            the thought on her part that the least discussion or whisper of this to
                            anybody might produce the most disastrous results. What capital the
                            so-called "Yellow" newspapers would make out of a
                            story of this character. How they would gloat over the details. It was a
                            most terrible and dangerous situation, and yet it was plain that
                            something had to be done and that immediately. What?
                        In this crisis it occurred to her that several things might be done and
                            that without great danger of irremediable consequences if she could only
                            have a little time in which Suzanne would promise to remain quiescent
                            and do so. If she could get her to say that she would do nothing for ten
                            days or five days all might be well for them. She could go to see
                            Angela, Eugene, Mr. Colfax, if necessary. To leave Suzanne in order to
                            go on these various errands, she had to obtain Suzanne's word,
                            which she knew she could respect absolutely, that she would make no move
                            of any kind until the time was up. Under pretense that Suzanne herself
                            needed time to think, or should take it, she pleaded and pleaded until
                            finally the girl, on condition that she be allowed to phone to Eugene
                            and state how things stood, consented. Eugene had called her up on the
                            second day after the quarrel began and had been informed by the butler,
                            at Mrs. Dale's request, that she was out of town. He called the
                            second day, and got the same answer. He wrote to her and Mrs. Dale hid
                            the letter, but on the fourth day, Suzanne called him up and explained.
                            The moment she did so, he was sorry that she had been so hasty in
                            telling her mother, terribly so, but there was nothing to be done now
                            save to stand by his guns. He was ready in a grim way to rise or fall so
                            long as, in doing either, he should obtain his heart's
                            desire.
                        "Shall I come and help you argue?" he asked.
                        "No, not for five days. I have given my word."
                        "Shall I see you?"
                        "No, not for five days, Eugene."
                        
                        "Mayn't I even call you up?"
                        "No, not for five days. After that, yes."
                        "All right, Flower FaceDivine Fire. I'll obey.
                            I'm yours to command. But, oh, sweet, it's a long
                            time."
                        "I know, but it will pass."
                        "And you won't change?"
                        "They can't make you?"
                        "No, you know they can't, dearest. Why do you
                            ask?"
                        "Oh, I can't help feeling a little fearful, sweet. You
                            are so young, so new to love."
                        "I won't change. I won't change. I
                            don't need to swear. I won't."
                        "Very well, then, Myrtle Bloom."
                        She hung up the receiver, and Mrs. Dale knew now that her greatest
                            struggle was before her.
                        Her several contemplated moves consisted first, in going to see Mrs.
                            Witla, unknown to Suzanne and Eugene, learning what she knew of how
                            things were and what she would advise.
                        This really did no good, unless the fact that it fomented anew the rage
                            and grief of Angela, and gave Mrs. Dale additional material wherewith to
                            belabor Eugene, could be said to be of advantage. Angela, who had been
                            arguing and pleading with Eugene all this time, endeavoring by one
                            thought and another to awaken him to a sense of the enormity of the
                            offense he was contemplating, was practically in despair. She had
                            reached the point where she had become rather savage again, and he also.
                            In spite of her condition, in spite of all she could say, he was cold
                            and bitter, so insistent that he was through with the old order that he
                            made her angry. Instead of leaving him, as she might have done, trusting
                            to time to alter his attitude, or to teach her the wisdom of releasing
                            him entirely, she preferred to cling to him, for there was still
                            affection left. She was used to him, he was the father of her coming
                            child, unwelcome as it was. He represented her social position to her,
                            her station in the world. Why should she leave him? Then, too, there was
                            this fear of the outcome, which would come over her like a child. She
                            might die. What would become of the child?
                        "You know, Mrs. Dale," she said at one point
                            significantly, "I don't hold Suzanne absolutely
                            guiltless. She is old enough to know better. She has been out in society
                            long enough to know that a married man is sacred property to another
                            woman."
                        "I know, I know," replied Mrs. Dale resentfully, but
                            cautiously, "but Suzanne is so young. You really don't
                            know how  much of a child she is. And she
                            has this silly, idealistic, emotional disposition. I suspected something
                            of it, but I did not know it was so strong. I'm sure I
                            don't know where she gets it. Her father was most practical.
                            But she was all right until your husband persuaded her."
                        "That may be all true," went on Angela, "but
                            she is not guiltless. I know Eugene. He is weak, but he will not follow
                            where he is not led, and no girl need be tempted unless she wants
                            to."
                        "Suzanne is so young," again pleaded Mrs. Dale.
                        "Well, I'm sure if she knew Mr. Witla's record
                            accurately," went on Angela foolishly, "she
                            wouldn't want him. I have written her. She ought to know. He
                            isn't honest and he isn't moral as this thing shows.
                            If this were the first time he had fallen in love with another woman, I
                            could forgive him, but it isn't. He did something quite as bad
                            six or seven years ago, and only two years before that there was another
                            woman. He wouldn't be faithful to Suzanne if he had her. It
                            would be a case of blazing affection for a little while, and then he
                            would tire and cast her aside. Why, you can tell what sort of a man he
                            is when he would propose to me, as he did here, that I should let him
                            maintain a separate establishment for Suzanne and say nothing of it. The
                            idea!"
                        Mrs. Dale clicked her lips significantly. She considered Angela foolish
                            for talking in this way, but it could not be helped now. Possibly Eugene
                            had made a mistake in marrying her. This did not excuse him, however, in
                            her eyes for wanting to take Suzanne under the conditions he proposed.
                            If he were free, it would be an entirely different matter. His standing,
                            his mind, his manners, were not objectionable, though he was not to the
                            manner born.
                        Mrs. Dale went away toward evening, greatly nonplussed by what she had
                            seen and heard, but convinced that no possible good could come of the
                            situation. Angela would never give him a divorce. Eugene was not a fit
                            man morally for her daughter, anyhow. There was great scandal on the
                            verge of exposure here in which her beloved daughter would be
                            irretrievably smirched. In her desperation, she decided, if she could do
                            no better, she would try to dissuade Eugene from seeing Suzanne until he
                            could obtain a divorce, in which case, to avoid something worse, she
                            would agree to a marriage, but this was only to be a lip promise. The
                            one thing she wanted to do was to get Suzanne to give him up entirely.
                            If Suzanne could be spirited away, or dissuaded from throwing herself
                            away on Eugene, that would  be the thing.
                            Still, she proposed to see what a conversation with Eugene would do.
                        The next morning as he was sitting in his office wondering what the delay
                            of five days portended, and what Suzanne was doing, as well as trying to
                            fix his mind on the multitudinous details which required his constant
                            attention, and were now being rather markedly neglected, the card of
                            Mrs. Emily Dale was laid on his table, and a few moments later, after
                            his secretary had been dismissed, and word given that no one else was to
                            be allowed to enter, Mrs. Dale was shown in.
                        She was pale and weary, but exquisitely dressed in a greenish blue silk
                            and picture hat of black straw and feathers. She looked quite young and
                            handsome herself, not too old for Eugene, and indeed once she had
                            fancied he might well fall in love with her. What her thoughts were at
                            that time, she was not now willing to recall, for they had involved the
                            probable desertion or divorce, or death of Angela, and Eugene's
                            passionate infatuation for her. All that was over now, of course, and in
                            the excitement and distress, almost completely obliterated. Eugene had
                            not forgotten that he had had similar sensations or imaginations at the
                            time, and that Mrs. Dale had always drawn to him in a sympathetic and
                            friendly way. Here she was, though, this morning coming upon a desperate
                            mission no doubt, and he would have to contend with her as best he
                            could.
                        The conversation opened by his looking into her set face as she
                            approached and smiling blandly, though it was something of an effort.
                            "Well," he said, in quite a business like way,
                            "what can I do for you?"
                        "You villain," she exclaimed melodramatically,
                            "my daughter has told me all."
                        "Yes, Suzanne phoned me that she told you," he replied,
                            in a conciliatory tone.
                        "Yes," she said in a low, tense voice, "and I
                            ought to kill you where you stand. To think that I should have ever
                            harbored such a monster as you in my home and near my dear, innocent
                            daughter. It seems incredible now. I can't believe it. That you
                            should dare. And you with a dear, sweet wife at home, sick and in the
                            condition she is in. I should think if you had any manhood at allany
                            sense of shame! When I think of that poor, dear little woman, and what
                            you have been doing, or trying to doif it weren't for the
                            scandal you would never leave this office alive."
                        "Oh, bother! Don't talk rot, Mrs. Dale," said
                            Eugene quietly, though irritably. He did not care for her melodramatic
                                 attitude. "The dear, darling
                            little woman you speak of is not as badly off as you think, and I
                            don't think she needs as much of your sympathy as you are so
                            anxious to give. She is pretty well able to take care of herself, sick
                            as she is. As for killing me, you or anyone else, well that
                            wouldn't be such a bad idea. I'm not so much in love
                            with life. This is not fifty years ago, though, but the nineteenth
                            century, and this is New York City. I love Suzanne. She loves me. We
                            want each other desperately. Now, an arrangement can be made which will
                            not interfere with you in any way, and which will adjust things for us.
                            Suzanne is anxious to make that arrangement. It is as much her
                            proposition as it is mine. Why should you be so vastly disturbed? You
                            know a great deal about life."
                        "Why should I be disturbed? Why should I? Can you sit in this
                            office, you a man in charge of all this vast public work, and ask me in
                            cold blood why I should be disturbed? And my daughter's very
                            life at stake. Why should I be disturbed and my daughter only out of her
                            short dresses a little while ago and practically innocent of the world.
                            You dare to tell me that she proposed! Oh, you impervious scoundrel! To
                            think I could be so mistaken in any human being. You, with your bland
                            manners and your inconsistent talk of happy family life. I might have
                            understood, though, when I saw you so often without your wife. I should
                            have known. I did, God help me! but I did't act upon it. I was
                            taken by your bland, gentlemanly attitude. I don't blame poor,
                            dear little Suzanne. I blame you, you utterly deceiving villain and
                            myself for being so silly. I am being justly rewarded,
                            however."
                        Eugene merely looked at her and drummed with his fingers.
                        "But I did not come here to bandy words with you," she
                            went on. "I came to say that you must never see my daughter
                            again, or speak of her, or appear where she might chance to be, though
                            she won't be where you may appear, if I have my way, for you
                            won't have a chance to appear anywhere in decent society very
                            much longer. I shall go, unless you agree here and now never to see or
                            communicate with her any more, to Mr. Colfax, whom I know personally, as
                            you are aware, and lay the whole matter before him. I'm sure
                            with what I know now of your record, and what you have attempted to do
                            in connection with my daughter, and the condition of your wife, that he
                            will not require your services very much longer. I shall go to Mr.
                            Winfield, who is also an old friend, and lay the matter before him.
                            Privately you will be drummed out of society and my daughter will be
                            none the worse for it. She is so very young  that when the facts are known, you are the only one who will bear the
                            odium of this. Your wife has given me your wretched record only
                            yesterday. You would like to make my Suzanne your fourth or fifth. Well,
                            you will not. I will show you something you have not previously known.
                            You are dealing with a desperate mother. Defy me if you dare. I demand
                            that you write your farewell to Suzanne here and now, and let me take it
                            to her."
                        Eugene smiled sardonically. Mrs. Dale's reference to Angela made
                            him bitter. She had been there and Angela had talked of himhis past to
                            her. What a mean thing to do. After all, Angela was his wife. Only the
                            morning before, she had been appealing to him on the grounds of love,
                            and she had not told him of Mrs. Dale's visit. Love! Love! What
                            sort of love was this? He had done enough for her to make her generous
                            in a crisis like this, even if she did not want to be.
                        "Write you a statement of release to Suzanne?" he
                            observed, his lips curling"how silly. Of course, I
                            won't. And as for your threat to run to Mr. Colfax, I have
                            heard that before from Mrs. Witla. There is the door. His office is
                            twelve flights down. I'll call a boy, if you wish. You tell it
                            to Mr. Colfax and see how much farther it goes before you are much
                            older. Run to Mr. Winfield also. A lot I care about him or Mr. Colfax.
                            If you want a grand, interesting discussion of this thing, just begin.
                            It will go far and wide, I assure you. I love your daughter.
                            I'm desperate about her. I'm literally crazy about
                            her"he got up"she loves me, or I think she does.
                            Anyhow, I'm banking all on that thought. My life from the point
                            of view of affection has been a failure. I have never really been in
                            love before, but I am crazy about Suzanne Dale. I am wild about her. If
                            you had any sympathy for an unhappy, sympathetic, emotional mortal, who
                            has never yet been satisfied in a woman, you would give her to me. I
                            love her. I love her. By God!"he banged the desk with his
                            fist"I will do anything for her. If she will come to me, Colfax
                            can have his position, Winfield can have his Blue Sea Corporation. You
                            can have her money, if she wants to give it to you. I can make a living
                            abroad by my art, and I will. Other Americans have done it before me. I
                            love her! I love her! Do you hear me? I love her, and what's
                            more, I'm going to have her! You can't stop me. You
                            haven't the brains; you haven't the strength; you
                            haven't the resources to match that girl. She's
                            brighter than you are. She's stronger, she's finer.
                            She's finer than the whole current day conception of society
                            and life. She loves me and she wants to 
                            give herself to me, willingly, freely, joyously. Match that in your
                            petty society circles if you can. Society! You say you will have me
                            drummed out of it, will you? A lot I care about your society. Hacks,
                            mental light weights, money grubbers, gamblers, thieves, leechesa fine
                            lot! To see you sitting there and talking to me with your grand air
                            makes me laugh. A lot I care for you. I was thinking of another kind of
                            woman when I met you, not a narrow, conventional fool. I thought I saw
                            one in you. I did, didn't Inot? You are like all the rest, a
                            narrow, petty slavish follower after fashion and convention.
                            Well," he snapped his fingers in her face, "go on and
                            do your worst. I will get Suzanne in the long run. She will come to me.
                            She will dominate you. Run to Colfax! Run to Winfield! I will get her
                            just the same. She's mine. She belongs to me. She is big enough
                            for me. The Gods have given her to me, and I will have her if I have to
                            smash you and your home and myself and everyone else connected with me.
                            I'll have her! I'll have her! She is mine! She is
                            mine!" He lifted a tense hand. "Now you run and do
                            anything you want to. Thank God, I've found one woman who knows
                            how to live and love. She's mine!"
                        Mrs. Dale stared at him in amazement, scarcely believing her ears. Was he
                            crazy? Was he really so much in love? Had Suzanne turned his brain? What
                            an astonishing thing. She had never seen him anything like thisnever
                            imagined him capable of anything like it. He was always so quiet,
                            smiling, bland, witty. Here he was dramatic, impassioned, fiery, hungry.
                            There was a terrible light in his eyes and he was desperate. He must be
                            in love.
                        "Oh, why will you do this to me?" she whimpered all at
                            once. The terror of his mood conveying itself to her for the moment, and
                            arousing a sympathy which she had not previously felt. "Why
                            will you come into my home and attempt to destroy it? There are lots of
                            women who will love you. There are lots more suited to your years and
                            temperament than Suzanne. She doesn't understand you. She
                            doesn't understand herself. She is just young, and foolish and
                            hypnotized. You have hypnotized her. Oh, why will you do this to me? You
                            are so much older than she, so much more schooled in life. Why not give
                            her up? I don't want to go to Mr. Colfax. I don't want
                            to speak to Mr. Winfield. I will, if I have to, but I don't
                            want to. I have always thought so well of you. I know you are not an
                            ordinary man. Restore my respect for you, my confidence in you. I can
                            forgive, if I can't forget. You 
                            may not be happily married. I am sorry for you. I don't want to
                            do anything desperate. I only want to save poor, little Suzanne. Oh,
                            please! please! I love her so. I don't think you understand how
                            I feel. You may be in love, but you ought to be willing to consider
                            others. True love would. I know that she is hard and wilful and
                            desperate now, but she will change if you will help her. Why, if you
                            really love her, if you have any sympathy for me or regard for her
                            future, or your own, you will renounce your schemes and release her.
                            Tell her you made a mistake. Write to her now. Tell her you
                            can't do this and not socially ruin her and me and yourself,
                            and so you won't do it. Tell her that you have decided to wait
                            until time has made you a free man, if that is to be, and then let her
                            have a chance of seeing if she will not be happy in a normal life. You
                            don't want to ruin her at this age, do you? She is so young, so
                            innocent. Oh, if you have any judgment of life at all, any regard, any
                            consideration, anything, I beg of you; I beg as her mother, for I love
                            her. Oh!" Tears came into her eyes again and she cried weakly
                            in her handkerchief.
                        Eugene stared at her. What was he doing? Where was he going? Was he
                            really as bad as he appeared to be here? Was he possessed? Was he really
                            so hard-hearted? Through her grief and Angela's and the threats
                            concerning Colfax and Winfield, he caught a glimpse of the real heart of
                            the situation. It was as if there had been a great flash of lightning
                            illuminating a black landscape. He saw sympathetically, sorrow, folly, a
                            number of things that were involved, and then the next moment, it was
                            gone. Suzanne's face came back, smooth, classic, chiseled,
                            perfectly modeled, her beauty like a tightened bow; her eyes, her lips,
                            her hair, the gaiety and buoyancy of her motions and her smile. Give her
                            up! Give up Suzanne and that dream of the studio, and of joyous,
                            continuous, delicious companionship? Did Suzanne want him to? What had
                            she said over the phone? No! No! No! Quit now, and her clinging to him.
                            No! No! No! Never!! He would fight first. He would go down fighting.
                            Never! Never! Never!
                        His brain seethed.
                        "I can't do it," he said, getting up again,
                            for he had sat down after his previous tirade. "I
                            can't do it. You are asking something that is utterly
                            impossible. It can never be done. God help me, I'm insane,
                            I'am wild over her. Go and do anything you want to, but I must
                            have her and I will. She's mine! She's mine!
                            She's mine!"
                        His thin, lean hands clenched and he clicked his teeth.
                        
                        "Mine, mine, mine!" he muttered, and one would have
                            thought him a villain in a cheap melodrama.
                        Mrs. Dale shook her head.
                        "God help us both!" she said. "You shall
                            never, never have her. You are not worthy of her. You are not right in
                            your mind. I will fight you with all the means in my power. I am
                            desperate! I am wealthy. I know how to fight. You shall not have her.
                            Now we will see which will win." She rose to go and Eugene
                            followed her.
                        "Go ahead," he said calmly, "but in the end
                            you lose. Suzanne comes to me. I know it. I feel it. I may lose many
                            other things, but I get her. She's mine."
                        "Oh," sighed Mrs. Dale wearily, half believing him and
                            moving towards the door. "Is this your last word?"
                        "It is positively."
                        "Then I must be going."
                        "Good-bye," he said solemnly.
                        "Good-bye," she answered, white faced, her eyes
                            staring.
                        She went out and Eugene took up the telephone; but he remembered that
                            Suzanne had warned him not to call, but to depend on her. So he put it
                            down again.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XV
                        THE fire and pathos of Mrs. Dale's appeal should have given
                            Eugene pause. He thought once of going after her and making a further
                            appeal, saying that he would try and get a divorce eventually and marry
                            Suzanne, but he remembered that peculiar insistency of Suzanne on the
                            fact that she did not want to get married. Somehow, somewhere, somewhy,
                            she had formulated this peculiar ideal or attitude, which whatever the
                            world might think of it, was possible of execution, providing he and she
                            were tactful enough. It was not such a wild thing for two people to want
                            to come together in this way, if they chose, he thought. Why was it?
                            Heaven could witness there were enough illicit and peculiar
                            relationships in this world to prevent society from becoming excited
                            about one more, particularly when it was to be conducted in so
                            circumspect and subtle a way. He and Suzanne did not intend to blazon
                            their relationship to the world. As a distinguished artist, not active,
                            but acknowledged and accomplished, he was entitled to a studio life. He
                            and Suzanne could meet there. Nothing would be thought of it. Why had
                            she insisted on telling her mother? It could all have been done without
                            that. There was another peculiar ideal of hers, her determination to
                            tell the truth under all circumstances. And yet she had really not told
                            it. She had deceived her mother a long time about him simply by saying
                            nothing. Was this some untoward trick of fate's, merely devised
                            to harm him? Surely not. And yet Suzanne's headstrong
                            determination seemed almost a fatal mistake now. He sat down brooding
                            over it. Was this a terrific blunder? Would he be sorry? All his life
                            was in the balance. Should he turn back?
                        No! No! No! Never! It was not to be. He must go on. He must! He must! So
                            he brooded.
                        The next of Mrs. Dale's resources was not quite so unavailing as
                            the others, though it was almost so. She had sent for Dr. Latson
                            Woolley, her family physicianan old school practitioner of great repute,
                            of rigid honor and rather Christian principles himself, but also of a
                            wide intellectual and moral discernment, so far as others were
                            concerned.
                        "Well, Mrs. Dale," he observed, when he was ushered
                            into her presence in the library on the ground floor, and extending his
                            hand cordially, though wearily, "what can I do for you this
                            morning?"
                        
                        "Oh, Dr. Woolley," she began directly, "I am
                            in so much trouble. It isn't a case of sickness. I wish it
                            were. It is something so much worse. I have sent for you because I know
                            I can rely on your judgment and sympathy. It concerns my daughter,
                            Suzanne."
                        "Yes, yes," he grunted, in a rather crusty voice, for
                            his vocal cords were old, and his eyes looked out from under shaggy,
                            gray eyebrows which somehow bespoke a world of silent observation.
                            "What's the matter with her? What has she done now
                            that she ought not to do?"
                        "Oh, doctor," exclaimed Mrs. Dale nervously, for the
                            experiences of the last few days had almost completely dispelled her
                            normal composure, "I don't know how to tell you,
                            really. I don't know how to begin. Suzanne, my dear precious
                            Suzanne, in whom I have placed so much faith and reliance has,
                            has"
                        "Well, tell me," interrupted Dr. Woolley
                            laconically.
                        When she had told him the whole story, and answered some of his incisive
                            questions, he said:
                        "Well, I am thinking you have a good deal to be grateful for.
                            She might have yielded without your knowledge and told you afterwardsor
                            not at all."
                        "Nat at all. Oh, doctor! My Suzanne!"
                        "Mrs. Dale, I looked after you and your mother before you and
                            Suzanne. I know something about human nature and your family
                            characteristics. Your husband was a very determined man, as you will
                            remember. Suzanne may have some of his traits in her. She is a very
                            young girl, you want to remember, very robust and vigorous. How old is
                            this Witla man?"
                        "About thirty-eight or nine, doctor."
                        "Um! I suspected as much. The fatal age. It's a wonder
                            you came through that period as safely as you did. You're
                            nearly forty, aren't you?"
                        "Yes, doctor, but you're the only one that knows
                            it."
                        "I know, I know. It's the fatal age. You say he is in
                            charge of the United Magazines Corporation. I have probably heard of
                            him. I know of Mr. Colfax of that company. Is he very emotional in his
                            temperament?"
                        "I had never thought so before this."
                        "Well, he probably is. Thirty-eight to thirty-nine and eighteen
                            or nineteenbad combination. Where is Suzanne?"
                        "Upstairs in her room, I fancy."
                        "It might not be a bad thing if I talked to her myself a little,
                            though I don't believe it will do any good."
                        Mrs. Dale disappeared and was gone for nearly three-quarters  of an hour. Suzanne was stubborn,
                            irritable, and to all preliminary entreaties insisted that she would
                            not. Why should her mother call in outsiders, particularly Dr. Woolley,
                            whom she knew and liked. She suspected at once when her mother said Dr.
                            Woolley wanted to see her that it had something to do with her case, and
                            demanded to know why. Finally, after much pleading, she consented to
                            come down, though it was with the intention of showing her mother how
                            ridiculous all her excitement was.
                        The old doctor who had been meditating upon the inexplicable tangle,
                            chemical and physical, of lifethe blowing hither and thither of
                            diseases, affections, emotions and hates of all kinds, looked up
                            quizzically as Suzanne entered.
                        "Well, Suzanne," he said genially, rising and walking
                            slowly toward her, "I'm glad to see you again. How are
                            you this morning?"
                        "Pretty well, doctor, how are you?"
                        "Oh, as you see, as you see, a little older and a little
                            fussier, Suzanne, making other people's troubles my own. Your
                            mother tells me you have fallen in love. That's an interesting
                            thing to do, isn't it?"
                        "You know, doctor," said Suzanne defiantly, "I
                            told mama that I don't care to discuss this, and I
                            don't think she has any right to try to make me. I
                            don't want to and I won't. I think it is all in rather
                            poor taste."
                        "Poor taste, Suzanne?" asked Mrs. Dale. "Do
                            you call our discussion of what you want to do poor taste, when the
                            world will think that what you want to do is terrible when you do
                            it?"
                        "I told you, mama, that I was not coming down here to discuss
                            this thing, and I'm not!" said Suzanne, turning to her
                            mother and ignoring Dr. Woolley. "I'm not going to
                            stay. I don't want to offend Dr. Woolley, but I'm not
                            going to stay and have you argue this all over again."
                        She turned to go.
                        "There, there, Mrs. Dale, don't interrupt,"
                            observed Dr. Woolley, holding Suzanne by the very tone of his voice.
                            "I think myself that very little is to be gained by argument.
                            Suzanne is convinced that what she is planning to do is to her best
                            interest. It may be. We can't always tell. I think the best
                            thing that could be discussed, if anything at all in this matter can be
                            discussed, is the matter of time. It is my opinion that before doing
                            this thing that Suzanne wants to do, and which may be all right, for all
                            I know, it would be best if she would 
                            take a little time. I know nothing of Mr. Witla. He may be a most able
                            and worthy man. Suzanne ought to give herself a little time to think,
                            though. I should say three months, or six months. A great many after
                            effects hang on this decision, as you know," he said, turning
                            to Suzanne. "It may involve responsibilities you are not quite
                            ready to shoulder. You are only eighteen or nineteen, you know. You
                            might have to give up dancing and society, and travel, and a great many
                            things, and devote yourself to being a mother and ministering to your
                            husband's needs. You expect to live with him permanently,
                            don't you?"
                        "I don't want to discuss this, Dr.
                            Woolley."
                        "But you do expect that, don't you?"
                        "Only as long as we love each other."
                        "Um, well, you might love him for some little time yet. You
                            rather expect to do that, don't you?"
                        "Why, yes, but what is the good of this, anyhow? My mind is made
                            up."
                        "Just the matter of thinking," said Dr. Woolley, very
                            soothingly and in a voice which disarmed Suzanne and held her.
                            "Just a little time in which to be absolutely sure. Your mother
                            is anxious not to have you do it at all. You, as I understand it, want
                            to do this thing right away. Your mother loves you, and at bottom, in
                            spite of this little difference, I know you love her. It just occurred
                            to me that for the sake of good feeling all around, you might like to
                            strike a balance. You might be willing to take, say six months, or a
                            year and think about it. Mr. Witla would probably not object. You
                            won't be any the less delightful to him at the end of that
                            time, and as for your mother, she would feel a great deal better if she
                            thought that, after all, what you decided to do you had done after
                            meture deliberation."
                        "Yes," exclaimed Mrs. Dale, impulsively, "do
                            take time to think, Suzanne. A year won't hurt
                            you."
                        "No," said Suzanne unguardedly. "It is all a
                            matter of whether I want to or not. I don't want
                            to."
                        "Precisely. Still this is something you might take into
                            consideration. The situation from all outside points of view is serious.
                            I haven't said so, but I feel that you would be making a great
                            mistake. Still, that is only my opinion. You are entitled to yours. I
                            know how you feel about it, but the public is not likely to feel quite
                            the same. The public is a wearisome thing, Suzanne, but we have to take
                            it into consideration."
                        Suzanne stared stubbornly and wearily at her tormentors.  Their logic did not appeal to her at all.
                            She was thinking of Eugene and her plan. It could be worked. What did
                            she care about the world? During all this talk, she drew nearer and
                            nearer the door and finally opened it.
                        "Well, that is all," said Dr. Woolley, when he saw she
                            was determined to go. "Good morning, Suzanne. I am glad to have
                            seen you again."
                        "Good morning, Dr. Woolley," she replied.
                        She went out and Mrs. Dale wrung her hands. "I wish I knew what
                            was to be done," she exclaimed, gazing at her counselor.
                        Dr. Woolley brooded over the folly of undesired human counsel.
                        "There is no need for excitement," he observed after a
                            time. "It is obvious to me that if she is handled rightly, she
                            will wait. She is in a state of high strung opposition and emotion for
                            some reason at present. You have driven her too hard. Relax. Let her
                            think this thing out for herself. Counsel for delay, but don't
                            irritate. You cannot control her by driving. She has too stern a will.
                            Tears won't help. Emotion seems a little silly to her. Ask her
                            to think, or better yet, let her think and plead only for delay. If you
                            could get her away for two or three weeks or months, off by herself
                            undisturbed by your pleadings and uninfluenced by hisif she would ask
                            him of her own accord to let her alone for that time, all will be well.
                            I don't think she will ever go to him. She thinks she will, but
                            I have the feeling that she won't. However, be calm. If you
                            can, get her to go away."
                        "Would it be possible to lock her up in some sanatorium or
                            asylum, doctor, until she has had time to think?"
                        "All things are possible, but I should say it would be the most
                            inadvisable thing you could do. Force accomplishes nothing in these
                            cases."
                        "I know, but suppose she won't listen to
                            reason?"
                        "You really haven't come to that bridge yet. You
                            haven't talked calmly to her yet. You are quarreling with her.
                            There is very little in that. You will simply grow further and further
                            apart."
                        "How practical you are, doctor," observed Mrs. Dale, in
                            a mollified and complimentary vein.
                        "Not practical, but intuitional. If I were practical, I would
                            never have taken up medicine."
                        He walked to the door, his old body sinking in somewhat  upon itself. His old, gray eyes twinkled
                            slightly as he turned.
                        "You were in love once, Mrs. Dale," he said.
                        "Yes," she replied.
                        "You remember how you felt then?"
                        "Yes."
                        "Be reasonable. Remember your own sensationsyour own attitude.
                            You probably weren't crossed in your affair. She is. She has
                            made a mistake. Be patient. Be calm. We want to stop it and no doubt
                            can. Do unto others as you would be done by."
                        He ambled shufflingly across the piazza and down the wide steps to his
                            car.
                        "Mama," she said, when after Dr. Woolley had gone her
                            mother came to her room to see if she might not be in a mellower mood,
                            and to plead with her further for delay, "it seems to me you
                            are making a ridiculous mess of all this. Why should you go and tell Dr.
                            Woolley about me! I will never forgive you for that. Mama, you have done
                            something I never thought you would do. I thought you had more pridemore
                            individuality."
                        One should have seen Suzanne, in her spacious boudoir, her back to her
                            oval mirrored dressing table, her face fronting her mother, to
                            understand her fascination for Eugene. It was a lovely, sunny, many
                            windowed chamber, and Suzanne in a white and blue morning dress was in
                            charming accord with the gay atmosphere of the room.
                        "Well, Suzanne, you know," she said, rather
                            despondently, "I just couldn't help it. I had to go to
                            someone. I am quite alone apart from you and Kinroy and the
                            children"she referred to Adele and Ninette as the children when
                            talking to either Suzanne or Kinroy"and I didn't want
                            to say anything to them. You have been my only confidant up to now, and
                            since you have turned against me"
                        "I haven't turned against you, mama."
                        "Oh, yes you have. Let's not talk about it, Suzanne.
                            You have broken my heart. You are killing me. I just had to go to
                            someone. We have known Dr. Woolley so long. He is so good and
                            kind."
                        "Oh, I know, mama, but what good will it do? How can anything he
                            might say help matters? He isn't going to change me.
                            You're only telling it to somebody who oughtn't to
                            know anything about it."
                        "But I thought he might influence you," pleaded Mrs.
                            Dale.  "I thought you would
                            listen to him. Oh, dear, oh, dear. I'm so tired of it all. I
                            wish I were dead. I wish I had never lived to see this."
                        "Now there you go, mama," said Suzanne confidently.
                            "I can't see why you are so distressed about what I am
                            going to do. It is my life that I am planning to arrange, not yours. I
                            have to live my life, mama, not you."
                        "Oh, yes, but it is just that that distresses me. What will it
                            be after you do thisafter you throw it away? Oh, if you could only see
                            what you are contemplating doingwhat a wretched thing it will be when it
                            is all over with. You will never live with himhe is too old for you, too
                            fickle, too insincere. He will not care for you after a little while,
                            and then there you will be, unmarried, possibly with a child on your
                            hands, a social outcast! Where will you go?"
                        "Mama," said Suzanne calmly, her lips parted in a rosy,
                            baby way, "I have thought of all this. I see how it is. But I
                            think you and everybody else make too much ado about these things. You
                            think of everything that could happen, but it doesn't all
                            happen that way. People do these things, I'm sure, and nothing
                            much is thought of it."
                        "Yes, in books," put in Mrs. Dale. "I know
                            where you get all this from. It's your reading."
                        "Anyhow, I'm going to. I have made up my
                            mind," added Suzanne. "I have decided that by
                            September fifteenth I will go to Mr. Witla, and you might just as well
                            make up your mind to it now." This was August tenth.
                        "Suzanne," said her mother, staring at her, "I
                            never imagined you could talk in this way to me. You will do nothing of
                            the kind. How can you be so hard? I did not know that you had such a
                            terrible will in you. Doesn't anything I have said about Adele
                            and Ninette or Kinroy appeal to you? Have you no heart in you? Why
                            don't you wait, as Dr. Woolley suggests, six months or a year?
                            Why do you talk about jumping into this without giving yourself time to
                            think? It is such a wild, rash experiment. You haven't thought
                            anything about it, you haven't had time."
                        "Oh, yes, I have, mama!" replied Suzanne.
                            "I've thought a great deal about it. I'm
                            fully convinced. I want to do it then because I told Eugene that I would
                            not keep him waiting long; and I won't. I want to go to him.
                            That will make a clear two months since we first talked of
                            this."
                        Mrs. Dale winced. She had no idea of yielding to her daughter or letting
                            her do this, but this definite conclusion as to the  time brought matters finally to a head. Her daughter was
                            out of her mind, that was all. It gave her not any too much time to turn
                            round in. She must get Suzanne out of the cityout of the country, if
                            possible, or lock her up, and she must do it without antagonizing her
                            too much.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XVI
                        MRSE'S next step in this struggle was to tell Kinroy, who
                            wanted, of course, in a fit of boyish chivalry, to go immediately and
                            kill Eugene. This was prevented by Mrs. Dale, who had more control over
                            him than she had over Suzanne, pointing out to him what a terrifically
                            destructive scandal would ensue and urging subtlety and patience. Kinroy
                            had a sincere affection for his sisters, particularly Suzanne and Adele,
                            and he wanted to protect all of them. He decided in a pompous, ultra
                            chivalrous spirit that he must help his mother plan, and together they
                            talked of chloroforming her some night, of carrying her thus, as a sick
                            girl, in a private car to Maine or the Adirondacks or somewhere in
                            Canada.
                        It would be useless to follow all these strategic details in their order.
                            There were, after the five days agreed upon by Suzanne, attempted phone
                            messages by Eugene, which were frustrated by Kinroy, who was now
                            fulfilling the rle of private detective. Suzanne resolved to have Eugene
                            summoned to the house for a discussion, but to this her mother objected.
                            She felt that additional meetings would simply strengthen their bond of
                            union. Kinroy wrote to Eugene of his own accord that he knew all, and
                            that if he attempted to come near the place he would kill him at sight.
                            Suzanne, finding herself blocked and detained by her mother, wrote
                            Eugene a letter which Elizabeth, her maid, secretly conveyed to the mail
                            for her, telling him how things stood. Her mother had told Dr. Woolley
                            and Kinroy. She had decided that September fifteenth was the time she
                            would leave home, unless their companionship was quietly sanctioned.
                            Kinroy had threatened to kill him to her, but she did not think he had
                            anything to fear. Kinroy was just excited. Her mother wanted her to go
                            to Europe for six months and think it over, but this she would not do.
                            She was not going to leave the city, and he need not fear, if he did not
                            hear anything for a few days at a time, that anything was wrong with
                            her. They must wait until the storm subsided a little. "I shall
                            be here, but perhaps it is best for you not to try to see me just now.
                            When the time comes, I will come to you, and if I get a chance, I will
                            see you before."
                        Eugene was both pained and surprised at the turn things had taken, but
                            still encouraged to hope for the best by the attitude  Suzanne took toward it all. Her courage
                            strengthened him. She was calm, so purposeful! What a treasure she
                            was!
                        So began a series of daily love notes for a few days, until Suzanne
                            advised him to cease. There were constant arguments between her, her
                            mother and Kinroy. Because she was being so obviously frustrated, she
                            began to grow bitter and hard, and short contradictory phrases passed
                            between her and her mother, principally originating in Suzanne.
                        "No, no, no!" was her constantly reiterated statement.
                            "I won't do it! What of it? It's silly! Let
                            me alone! I won't talk!" So it went.
                        Mrs. Dale was planning hourly how to abduct her. Chloroforming and secret
                            removal after the fashion she had in her mind was not so easy of
                            accomplishment. It was such a desperate thing to do to Suzanne. She was
                            afraid she might die under its influence. It could not be administered
                            without a doctor. The servants would think it strange. She fancied there
                            were whispered suspicions already. Finally she thought of pretending to
                            agree with Suzanne, removing all barriers, and asking her to come to
                            Albany to confer with her guardian, or rather the legal representative
                            of the Marquardt Trust Company, which held her share of her father the
                            late Westfield Dale's estate in trust for her, in regard to
                            some property in western New York, which belonged to her. Mrs. Dale
                            decided to pretend to be obliged to go to Albany in order to have
                            Suzanne sign a waiver of right to any share in her mother's
                            private estate, after which, supposedly, she would give Suzanne her
                            freedom, having also disinherited her in her will. Suzanne, according to
                            this scheme, was then to come back to New York and go her way and her
                            mother was not to see her any more.
                        To make this more effective, Kinroy was sent to tell her of her
                            mother's plan and beg her for her own and her family's
                            sake not to let the final separation come about. Mrs. Dale changed her
                            manner. Kinroy acted his part so effectively that what with her
                            mother's resigned look and indifferent method of address,
                            Suzanne was partly deceived. She imagined her mother had experienced a
                            complete change of heart and might be going to do what Kinroy said.
                        "No," she replied to Kinroy's pleadings,
                            "I don't care whether she cuts me off. I'll
                            be very glad to sign the papers. If she wants me to go away,
                            I'll go. I think she has acted very foolishly through all this,
                            and so have you."
                        "I wish you wouldn't let her do that,"
                            observed Kinroy, who  was rather exulting
                            over the satisfactory manner in which this bait was being swallowed.
                            "Mama is broken hearted. She wants you to stay here, to wait
                            six months or a year before you do anything at all, but if you
                            won't, she's going to ask you to do this.
                            I've tried to persuade her not to. I'd hate like
                            anything to see you go. Won't you change your
                            mind?"
                        "I told you I wouldn't, Kinroy. Don't ask
                            me."
                        Kinroy went back to his mother and reported that Suzanne was stubborn as
                            ever, but that the trick would in all probability work. She would go
                            aboard the train thinking she was going to Albany. Once aboard, inside a
                            closed car, she would scarcely suspect until the next morning, and then
                            they would be far in the Adirondack Mountains.
                        The scheme worked in part. Her mother, as had Kinroy, went through this
                            prearranged scene as well as though she were on the stage. Suzanne
                            fancied she saw her freedom near at hand. Only a travelling bag was
                            packed, and Suzanne went willingly enough into the auto and the train,
                            only stipulating one thingthat she be allowed to call up Eugene and
                            explain. Both Kinroy and her mother objected, but, when finally she
                            refused flatly to go without, they acceded. She called him up at the
                            officeit was four o'clock in the afternoon, and they were
                            leaving at five-thirtyand told him. He fancied at once it was a ruse,
                            and told her so, but she thooght not. Mrs. Dale had never lied to her
                            before, neither had her brother. Their words were as bonds.
                        "Eugene says this is a trap, mama," said Suzanne,
                            turning from the phone to her mother, who was near by. "Is
                            it?"
                        "You know it isn't," replied her mother, lying
                            unblushingly.
                        "If it is, it will come to nothing," she replied, and
                            Eugene heard her. He was strengthened into acquiescence by the tone of
                            her voice. Surely she was a wonderful girla master of men and women in
                            her way.
                        "Very well, if you think it's all right," said
                            Eugene; "but I'll be very lonely. I've been
                            so already. I shall be more so, Flower Face, unless I see you soon. Oh,
                            if the time were only up!"
                        "It will be, Eugene," she replied, "in a very
                            few days now.
                        "I'll be back Thursday, and then you can come down and
                            see me."
                        "Thursday afternoon?"
                        "Yes. We're to be back Thursday morning."
                        She finally hung up the receiver and they entered the automobile and an
                            hour later the train.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XVII
                        IT was a Montreal, Ottawa and Quebec express, and it
                                ra without stopping to Albany. By the time it was
                            nearing the latter place Suzanne was going to bedand because it was a
                            private carMrs. Dale explained that the president of the road had lent
                            it to herno announcement of its arrival, which would have aroused
                            Suzanne, was made by the porter. When it stopped there shortly after ten
                            o'clock it was the last car at the south end of the train, and
                            you could hear voices calling, but just what it was was not possible to
                            say. Suzanne, who had already gone to bed, fancied it might be
                            Poughkeepsie or some wayside station. Her mother's statement
                            was that since they arrived so late, the car would be switched to a
                            siding, and they would stay aboard until morning. Nevertheless, she and
                            Kinroy were alert to prevent any untoward demonstration or decision on
                            Suzanne's part, and so, as the train went on, she slept soundly
                            until Burlington in the far northern part of Vermont was reached the
                            next morning. When she awoke and saw that the train was still speeding
                            on, she wondered vaguely but not clearly what it could mean. There were
                            mountains about, or rather tall, pine-covered hills, mountain streams
                            were passed on high trestles and sections of burned woodlands were
                            passed where forest fires had left lonely, sad charred stretches of tree
                            trunks towering high in the air. Suddenly it occurred to Suzanne that
                            this was peculiar, and she came out of the bath to ask why.
                        "Where are we, mama?" she asked. Mrs. Dale was leaning
                            back in a comfortable willow chair reading, or pretending to read a
                            book. Kinroy was out on the observation platform for a moment. He came
                            back though shortly, for he was nervous as to what Suzanne would do when
                            she discovered her whereabouts. A hamper of food had been put aboard the
                            night before, unknown to Suzanne, and Mrs. Dale was going shortly to
                            serve breakfast. She had not risked a maid on this journey.
                        "I don't know," replied her mother
                            indifferently, looking out at a stretch of burnt woods.
                        "I thought we were to be in Albany a little after
                            midnight?" said Suzanne.
                        "So we were," replied Mrs. Dale, preparing to confess.
                            Kinroy came back into the car.
                        "Well, then," said Suzanne, pausing, looking first out
                            of the  windows and then fixedly at her
                            mother. It came to her as she saw the unsettled, somewhat nervous
                            expression in her mother's face and eyes and in
                            Kinroy's that this was a trick and that she was being taken
                            somewherewhere?against her will.
                        "This is a trick, mama," she said to her mother
                            grandly. "You have lied to meyou and Kinroy. We are not going
                            to Albany at all. Where are we going?"
                        "I don't want to tell you now, Suzanne,"
                            replied Mrs. Dale quietly. "Have your bath and we'll
                            talk about it afterwards. It doesn't matter. We're
                            going up into Canada, if you want to know. We are nearly there now.
                            You'll know fast enough when we get there."
                        "Mama," replied Suzanne, "this is a despicable
                            trick! You are going to be sorry for this. You have lied to meyou and
                            Kinroy. I see it now. I might have known, but I didn't believe
                            you would lie to me, mama. I can't do anything just now, I see
                            that very plainly. But when the time comes, you are going to be sorry.
                            You can't control me this way. You ought to know better. You
                            yourself are going to take me back to New York." And she fixed
                            her mother with a steady look which betokened a mastership which her
                            mother felt nervously and wearily she might eventually be compelled to
                            acknowledge.
                        "Now, Suzanne, what's the use of talking that
                            way?" pleaded Kinroy. "Mama is almost crazy, as it is.
                            She couldn't think of any other way or thing to
                            do."
                        "You hush, Kinroy," replied Suzanne. "I
                            don't care to talk to you. You have lied to me, and that is
                            more than I ever did to you. Mama, I am astonished at you," she
                            returned to her mother. "My mother lying to me! Very well,
                            mama. You have things in your hands today. I will have them in mine
                            later. You have taken just the wrong course. Now you wait and
                            see."
                        Mrs. Dale winced and quailed. This girl was the most unterrified,
                            determined fighter she had ever known. She wondered where she got her
                            couragefrom her late husband, probably. She could actually feel the
                            quietness, grit, lack of fear, which had grown up in her during the last
                            few weeks under the provocation which antagonism had provided.
                            "Please don't talk that way, Suzanne," she
                            pleaded. "I have done it all for your own good. You know I
                            have. Why will you torture me? You know I won't give you up to
                            that man. I won't. I'll move heaven and earth first.
                            I'll die in this struggle, but I won't give you
                            up."
                        "Then you'll die, mama, for I'm going to do
                            what I said. You can take me to where this car stops, but you
                            can't take me  out of it.
                            I'm going back to New York. Now, a lot you have accomplished,
                            haven't you?"
                        "Suzanne, I am convinced almost that you are out of your mind.
                            You have almost driven me out of mine, but I am still sane enough to see
                            what is right"
                        "Mama, I don't propose to talk to you any more, or to
                            Kinroy. You can take me back to New York, or you can leave me, but you
                            will not get me out of this car. I am done with listening to nonsense
                            and pretences. You have lied to me once. You will not get a chance to do
                            it again."
                        "I don't care, Suzanne," replied her mother,
                            as the train sped swiftly along. "You have forced me to do
                            this. It is your own attitude that is causing all the trouble. If you
                            would be reasonable and take some time to think this all over, you would
                            not be where you are now. I won't let you do this thing that
                            you want to do. You can stay in the car if you wish, but you cannot be
                            taken back to New York without money. I will speak to the station agent
                            about that."
                        Suzanne thought of this. She had no money, no clothes, other than those
                            she had on. She was in a strange country and not so very used to
                            travelling alone. She had really gone to very few places in times past
                            by herself. It took the edge off her determination to resist, but she
                            was not conquered by any means.
                        "How are you going to get back?" asked her mother,
                            after a time, when Suzanne paid no attention to her. "You have
                            no money. Surely, Suzanne, you are not going to make a scene? I only
                            want you to come up here for a few weeks so that you will have time to
                            think away from that man. I don't want you to go to him on
                            September the fifteenth. I just won't let you do that. Why
                            won't you be reasonable? You can have a pleasant time up here.
                            You like to ride. You are welcome to do that. I will ride with you. You
                            can invite some of your friends up here, if you choose. I will send for
                            your clothes. Only stay here a while and think over what you are going
                            to do."
                        Suzanne refused to talk. She was thinking what she could do. Eugene was
                            back in New York. He would expect her Thursday.
                        "Yes, Suzanne," put in Kinroy. "Why not take
                            ma's advice? She's trying to do the best thing by you.
                            This is a terrible thing you are trying to do. Why not listen to common
                            sense and stay up here three or four months?"
                        "Don't talk like a parrot, Kinroy! I'm hearing
                            all this from mama."
                        When her mother reproached her, she said: "Oh, hush,  mama, I don't care to hear
                            anything more. I won't do anything of the sort. You lied to me.
                            You said you were going to Albany. You brought me out here under a
                            pretence. Now you can take me back. I won't go to any lodge. I
                            won't go anywhere, except to New York. You might just as well
                            not argue with me."
                        The train rolled on. Breakfast was served. The private car was switched
                            to the tracks of the Canadian Pacific at Montreal. Her mother's
                            pleas continued. Suzanne refused to eat. She sat and looked out of the
                            window, meditating over this strange dnouement. Where was Eugene? What
                            was he doing? What would he think when she did not come back? She was
                            not enraged at her mother. She was merely contemptuous of her. This
                            trick irritated and disgusted her. She was not thinking of Eugene in any
                            wild way, but merely that she would get back to him. She conceived of
                            him much as she did of herselfthough her conception of her real self was
                            still vagueas strong, patient, resourceful, able to live without her a
                            little while if he had to. She was eager to see him, but really more
                            eager that he should see her if he wanted to. What a creature he must
                            take her mother to be!
                        By noon they had reached Juinata, by two o'clock they were fifty
                            miles west of Quebec. At first, Suzanne thought she would not eat at all
                            to spite her mother. Later she reasoned that that was silly and ate. She
                            made it exceedingly unpleasant for them by her manner, and they realized
                            that by bringing her away from New York they had merely transferred
                            their troubles. Her spirit was not broken as yet. It filled the car with
                            a disturbing vibration.
                        "Suzanne," questioned her mother at one point,
                            "won't you talk to me? Won't you see
                            I'm trying to do this for your own good? I want to give you
                            time to think. I really don't want to coerce you, but you must
                            see."
                        Suzanne merely stared out of the window at the green fields speeding
                            by.
                        "Suzanne! Don't you see this will never do?
                            Can't you see how terrible it all is?"
                        "Mama, I want you to let me alone. You have done what you
                            thought was the right thing to do. Now let me alone. You lied to me,
                            mama. I don't want to talk to you. I want you to take me back
                            to New York. You have nothing else to do. Don't try to explain.
                            You haven't any explanation."
                        Mrs. Dale's spirit fairly raged, but it was impotent in the
                            presence of this her daughter. She could do nothing.
                        
                        Still more hours, and at one small town Suzanne decided to get off, but
                            both Mrs. Dale and Kinroy offered actual physical opposition. They felt
                            intensely silly and ashamed, though, for they could not break the spirit
                            of the girl. She ignored their mindstheir mental attitude in the most
                            contemptuous way. Mrs. Dale cried. Then her face hardened. Then she
                            pleaded. Her daughter merely looked loftily away.
                        At Three Rivers Suzanne stayed in the car and refused to move. Mrs. Dale
                            pleaded, threatened to call aid, stated that she would charge her with
                            insanity. It was all without avail. The car was uncoupled after the
                            conductor had asked Mrs. Dale if she did not intend to leave it. She was
                            beside herself, frantic with rage, shame, baffled opposition.
                        "I think you are terrible!" she exclaimed to Suzanne.
                            "You are a little demon. We will live in this car, then. We
                            will see."
                        She knew that this could not be, for the car was only leased for the
                            outward trip and had to be returned the next day.
                        The car was pushed on to a siding.
                        "I beg of you, Suzanne. Please don't make a mockery of
                            us. This is terrible. What will people think?"
                        "I don't care what they think," said
                            Suzanne.
                        "But you can't stay here."
                        "Oh, yes, I can!"
                        "Come, get off, please do. We won't stay up here
                            indefinitely. I'll take you back. Promise me to stay a month
                            and I'll give you my solemn word I'll take you back at
                            the end of that time. I'm getting sick of this. I
                            can't stand it. Do what you like after that. Only stay a month
                            now."
                        "No, mama," replied Suzanne. "No, you
                            won't. You lied to me. You're lying to me now, just as
                            you did before."
                        "I swear to you I'm not. I lied that once, but I was
                            frantic. Oh, Suzanne, please, please. Be reasonable. Have some
                            consideration. I will take you back, but wait for some clothes to
                            arrive. We can't go this way."
                        She sent Kinroy for the station master, to whom was explained the need of
                            a carriage to take them to Mont Cecile and also for a doctorthis was
                            Mrs. Dale's latest thoughtto whom she proposed to accuse
                            Suzanne of insanity. Help to remove her was to be called. She told this
                            to Suzanne, who simply glared at her.
                        "Get the doctor, mama," she said. "We will see
                            if I have to go that way. But you will rue every step of this. You will
                            be thoroughly sorry for every sillv step you have taken."
                        
                        When the carriage arrived, Suzanne refused to get out. The country
                            driver, a French habitant, reported its presence at the car. Kinroy
                            tried to soothe his sister by saying that he would help straighten
                            matters out if she would only go peacefully.
                        "I'll tell you, Susie, if it isn't all
                            arranged to suit you within a month, and you still want to go back,
                            I'll send you the money. I have to go back tomorrow, or next
                            day for ma, but I'll give you my word. In fact, I'll
                            persuade mother to bring you back in two weeks. You know I never lied to
                            you before. I never will again. Please come. Let's go over
                            there. We can be comfortable, anyhow."
                        Mrs. Dale had leased the lodge from the Cathcarts by phone. It was all
                            furnishedready to live ineven wood fires prepared for lighting in the
                            fireplaces. It had hot and cold water controlled by a hot-water furnace
                            system; acetylene gas, a supply of staples in the kitchen. The service
                            to take care of it was to be called together by the caretaker, who could
                            be reached by phone from the depot. Mrs. Dale had already communicated
                            with him by the time the carriage arrived. The roads were so poor that
                            the use of an automobile was impossible. The station agent, seeing a fat
                            fee in sight, was most obliging.
                        Suzanne listened to Kinroy, but she did not believe him. She did not
                            believe anyone now, save Eugene, and he was nowhere near to advise her.
                            Still, since she was without money and they were threatening to call a
                            doctor, she thought it might be best perhaps to go peacefully. Her
                            mother was most distracted. Her face was white and thin and nervous, and
                            Kinroy was apparently strained to the breaking point.
                        "De you promise me faithfully," she asked her mother,
                            who had begun her pleadings anew, corroborating Kinroy in a way,
                            "that you will take me back to New York in two weeks if I
                            promise to stay that long?" This was still within the date in
                            which she had promised to go to Witla, and as long as she got back by
                            that time, she really did not care, provided she could write to her
                            lover. It was a silly arbitrary thing for her mother to have done, but
                            it could be endured. Her mother, seeing no reasonable way to obtain
                            peace, promised. If she could only keep her there two weeks quietly,
                            perhaps that would help. Suzanne could think here under different
                            conditions. New York was so exciting. Out at this lodge all would be
                            still. There was more argument, and, finally, Suzanne agreed to enter
                            the hack, and they drove over toward Mont Cecile and the
                            Cathcarts' Lodge, now vacant and lonely, which was known as
                            "While-a-Way."
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XVIII
                        THE Cathcart Lodge, a long, two-story affair, half-way up a fine covered
                            mountain slope, was one of those summer conveniences of the rich,
                            situated just near enough to the primeval wilds to give one a sense of
                            the unexplored and dangerous in raw nature, and yet near enough to the
                            comforts of civilization, as represented by the cities of Quebec and
                            Montreal, to make one feel secure in the possession of those material
                            joys, otherwise so easily interrupted. It was full of great rooms taste,
                            fully furnished with simple summery thingswillow chairs, box
                            window-seats, structural book shelves, great open fireplaces, surmounted
                            by handsome mantels, outward swinging leaded casements, settees,
                            pillow-strewn rustic couches, great fur rugs and robes and things of
                            that character. The walls were ornamented with trophies of the
                            chaseantlers, raw fox skins, mounted loons and eagles, skins of bears
                            and other animals. This year the Cathcarts were elsewhere, and the lodge
                            was to be had by a Woman of Mrs. Dale's standing for the
                            asking.
                        When they reached While-a-Way, the caretaker, Pierre, an old habitant of
                            musty log-hut origin, who spoke broken English and was dressed in
                            earth-brown khaki over Heaven knows what combination of clothes beneath,
                            had lighted the fires and was bestirring himself about warming the house
                            generally with the furnaces. His wife, a small, broad-skirted,
                            solid-bodied woman, was in the kitchen preparing something to eat. There
                            was plenty of meat to be had from the larder of the habitant himself, to
                            say nothing of flour, butter, and the like. A girl to serve was called
                            from the family of a neighboring trapper. She had worked in the lodge as
                            maid to the Cathcarts. They settled down to make themselves comfortable,
                            but the old discussion continued. There was no cessation to it, and
                            through it all, actually, Suzanne was having her way.
                        Meanwhile, Eugene back in New York was expecting word from Suzanne on
                            Thursday, and none came. He called up the house only to learn that Mrs.
                            Dale was out of the city and was not expected back soon. Friday came,
                            and no word; and Saturday. He tried a registered letter "for
                            personal delivery only, return signature demanded," but it came
                            back marked "not there." Then he realized that his
                            suspicions were correct and that Suzanne had fallen into a trap. He grew
                            gloomy, fearful,  impatient and nervous by
                            turn, and all at the same time. He drummed on his desk at the office,
                            tried almost in vain to fix his mind on the scores of details which were
                            ever before him, wandered aimlessly about the streets at times,
                            thinking. He was asked for his opinion on art plans, and books, and
                            advertising and circulation propositions, but he could not fix his mind
                            closely on what was being said.
                        "The chief has certainly got something on his mind which is
                            troubling him these days," said Carter Hayes, the advertising
                            man, to the circulation head. "He's not himself. I
                            don't believe he hears what I'm telling
                            him."
                        "I've noticed that," replied the latter. They
                            were in the reception room outside Eugene's door, and strolled
                            arm in arm down the richly carpeted hall to the elevator.
                            "There's certainly something wrong. He ought to take a
                            rest. He's trying to do too much."
                        Hayes did not believe Eugene was trying to do too much. In the last four
                            or five months it had been almost impossible to get near him. He came
                            down at ten or ten-thirty in the morning, left frequently at two and
                            three, had lunch engagements which had nothing to do with office work,
                            and at night went into the social world to dinner or elsewhere, where he
                            could not be found. Colfax had sent for him on a number of occasions
                            when he was not present, and on several other occasions, when he had
                            called on his floor and at his office, Eugene was out. It did not strike
                            him as anything to complain ofEugene had a right to be aboutbut as
                            inadvisable, in the managing publisher's own interest. He knew
                            that he had a vast number of things to take care of. It would take an
                            exceptionally efficient man to manage them and not give all his time to
                            them. He would not have thought this if Eugene had been a partner with
                            himself, as were other men in other ventures in which he was interested,
                            but not being so, he could not help viewing him as an employee, one who
                            ought to give all his time to his work.
                        White never asked anything much save the privilege of working, and was
                            always about the place, alert, earnest at his particular duties, not
                            haughty, but calm and absolutely efficient in every way. He was never
                            weary of consulting with Colfax, whereas Eugene was indifferent, not at
                            all desirous of running to him with every little proposition, but
                            preferring to act on his own initiative, and carrying himself constantly
                            with very much of an air.
                        In other ways there were other things which were and had been militating
                            against him. By degrees it had come to be rumored  about the office that Eugene was interested in the Blue
                            Sea or Sea Island Development and Construction Company, of which there
                            was a good deal of talk about the city, particularly in financial and
                            social circles. Colfax had heard of the corporation. He had been
                            interested in the scheme because it promised so much in the way of
                            luxury. Not much of the panoramic whole so beautifully depicted in the
                            colored insets of a thirtytwo-page literary prospectus fathered by
                            Eugene was as yet accomplished, but there was enough to indicate that it
                            was going to be a great thing. Already somewhat over a mile and a
                            quarter of the great sea walk and wall were in place. A dining and
                            dancing pavilion had been built, and one of the smaller hotelsall in
                            accordance with the original architectural scheme. There were a number
                            of housessomething like twenty or thirtyon plots one hundred and fifty
                            by one hundred and fifty feet, built in the most ornate fashion on
                            ground which had formerly been wet marsh grown high with grass. Three or
                            four islands had been filled in and the club house of a minor yacht club
                            had been constructed, but still the Sea Island Development Company had a
                            long way to go before even a third of its total perfection would be in
                            sight.
                        Eugene did not know the drift of the company's financial
                            affairs, except in a general way. He had tried to keep out of it so far
                            as public notice of him was concerned, though he was constantly lunching
                            with Winfield, Willebrand, and others, and endeavoring to direct as much
                            attention to the wonders and prospects of the new resort as was possible
                            for him to do. It was an easy thing for him to say to one person and
                            another whom he met that Blue Sea was rapidly becoming the most perfect
                            thing in the way of a summer resort that he had ever seen, and this did
                            good; so did the comments of all the other people who were interested in
                            it, but it did not make it anything of a success as yet. As a matter of
                            fact, the true success of Blue Sea depended on the investment of much
                            more than the original ten millions for which it had been capitalized.
                            It depended on a truly solid growth, which could not be rapid.
                        The news which came to the United Magazines Corporation and eventually to
                            Colfax and White was that Eugene was heavily interested in this venture,
                            that he was secretary or held some other office in connection with it,
                            and that he was giving a great deal of his time to its development,
                            which might better be employed in furthering the interests of the United
                            Magazines Corporation.
                        "What do you think of that?" asked Colfax of White, on
                                 hearing the news one morning. It had
                            come through the head of the printing department under White, who had
                            mentioned it to Colfax in White's presence by the
                            latter's directions.
                        "It's just what I've been telling you all
                            along," said the latter blandly. "He isn't
                            interested in this business any more than he is in any other.
                            He's using it as a stepping-stone, and when he's
                            through with it, good-bye. Now that's all right from his point
                            of view. Every man has a right to climb up, but it isn't so
                            good from yours. You'd be better off if you had a man who
                            wanted to stay here. You'd be better off really if you were
                            handling it yourself. You may not want to do that, but with what you
                            know now you can get someone who will work under you quite well.
                            That's the one satisfactory thing about ityou really can get
                            along without him if it comes right down to it now. With a good man in
                            there, it can be handled from your office."
                        It was about this time that the most ardent phase of Eugene's
                            love affair with Suzanne began. All through the spring and summer Eugene
                            had been busy with thoughts of Suzanne, ways of meeting her, pleasurable
                            rides with her, thinking of things she had done and said. As a rule now,
                            his thoughts were very fat from the interests of his position, and in
                            the main it bored him greatly. He began to wish earnestly that his
                            investment in the Sea Island Corporation would show some tangible return
                            in the way of interest, so that he could have means to turn round with.
                            It struck him after Angela's discovery of his intrigue with
                            Suzanne as a most unfortunate thing that he had tied up all his means in
                            this Blue Sea investment. If it had been fated that he was to go on
                            living with Angela, it would have been all right. Then he could have
                            waited in patience and thought nothing of it. Now it simply meant that
                            if he wanted to realize it, it would all be tied up in the courts, or
                            most likely so, for Angela could sue him; and at any rate he would wish
                            to make reasonable provision for her, and that would require legal
                            adjustment. Apart from this investment, he had nothing now save his
                            salary, and that was not accumulating fast enough to do him much good in
                            case Mrs. Dale went to Colfax soon, and the latter broke with him. He
                            wondered if Colfax really would break with him. Would he ask him to give
                            up Suzanne, or simply force him to resign? He had noticed that for some
                            time Colfax had not been as cordial to and as enthusiastic about him as
                            he had formerly been, but this might be due to other things besides
                            opposition. Moreover, it was natural for them to become a little tired
                            of each other. They did not go about so much together, and when they did
                            Colfax was not as high-flown  and boyish
                            in his spirits as he had formerly been. Eugene fancied it was White who
                            was caballing against him, but he thought if Colfax was going to change,
                            he was going to change, and there was no help for it. There were no
                            grounds, he fancied, in so far as the affairs of the corporation were
                            concerned. His work was successful.
                        The storm broke one day out of a clear sky, in so far as the office was
                            concerned, but not until there had been much heartache and misery in
                            various directionswith the Dales, with Angela, and with Eugene
                            himself.
                        Suzanne's action was the lightning bolt which precipitated the
                            storm. It could only come from that quarter. Eugene was frantic to hear
                            from her, and for the first time in his life began to experience those
                            excruciating and gnawing pangs which are the concomitants of uncertain
                            and distraught love. It manifested itself in an actual pain in his
                            vitalsin the region of the solar plexus, or what is commonly known as
                            the pit of the stomach. He suffered there very much, quite as the
                            Spartan boy may have done who was gnawed by the fox concealed under his
                            belt. He would wonder where Suzanne was, what she was doing, and then,
                            being unable to work, would call his car and ride, or take his hat and
                            walk. It did him no good to ride, for the agony was in sitting still. At
                            night he would go home and sit by one or the other of his studio
                            windows, principally out on the little stone balcony, and watch the
                            changing panorama of the Hudson, yearning and wondering where she was.
                            Would he ever see her again? Would he be able to win this battle if he
                            did? Oh, her beautiful face, her lovely voice, her exquisite lips and
                            eyes, the marvel of her touch and beautiful fancy!
                        He tried to compose poetry to her, and wrote a series of sonnets to his
                            beloved, which were not at all bad. He worked on his sketch book of
                            pencil portraits of Suzanne seeking a hundred significant and delightful
                            expressions and positions, which could afterwards be elaborated into his
                            gallery of paintings of her, which he proposed to paint at some time. It
                            did not matter to him that Angela was about, though he had the
                            graciousness to conceal these things from her. He was ashamed, in a way,
                            of his treatment of her, and yet the sight of her now was not so much
                            pitiable as objectionable and unsatisfactory. Why had he married her? He
                            kept asking himself that.
                        They sat in the studio one night. Angela's face was a picture of
                            despair, for the horror of her situation was only by degrees coming to
                            her, and she said, seeing him so moody and despondent:
                        
                        "Eugene, don't you think you can get over this? You say
                            Suzanne has been spirited away. Why not let her go? Think of your
                            career, Eugene. Think of me. What will become of me? You can get over
                            it, if you try. Surely you won't throw me down after all the
                            years I have been with you. Think how I have tried. I have been a pretty
                            good wife to you, haven't I? I haven't annoyed you so
                            terribly much, have I? Oh, I feel all the time as though we were on the
                            brink of some terrible catastrophe! If only I could do something; if
                            only I could say something! I know I have been hard and irritable at
                            times, but that is all over now. I am a changed woman. I would never be
                            that way any more."
                        "It can't be done, Angela," he replied calmly.
                            "It can't be done. I don't love you.
                            I've told you that. I don't want to live with you. I
                            can't. I want to get free in some way, either by divorce, or a
                            quiet separation, and go my way. I'm not happy. I never will be
                            as long as I am here. I want my freedom and then I will decide what I
                            want to do."
                        Angela shook her head and sighed. She could scarcely believe that this
                            was she wandering around in her own apartment wondering what she was
                            going to do in connection with her own husband. Marietta had gone back
                            to Wisconsin before the storm broke. Myrtle was in New York, but she
                            hated to confess to her. She did not dare to write to any member of her
                            own family but Marietta, and she did not want to confess to her.
                            Marietta had fancied while she was here that they were getting along
                            nicely. She had fits of crying, which alternated with fits of anger, but
                            the latter were growing weak. Fear, despondency, and grief were becoming
                            uppermost in her soul againthe fear and despondency that had weighed her
                            down in those lonely days before she married Eugene, the grief that she
                            was now actually and finally to lose the one man whom, in spite of
                            everything, she loved still.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XIX
                        IT was three days later when he was at his office that a telegram came
                            from Mrs. Dale, which read, "I depend on you, on the honor of a
                            gentleman, to ignore any message which may come from my daughter until I
                            see you."
                        Eugene was puzzled, but fancied that there must be a desperate quarrel on
                            between Suzanne and her mother, wherever they were, and that it was
                            probable that he would hear from her now. It was his first inkling as to
                            her whereabouts, for the telegram was sent off from Three Rivers, in
                            Canada, and he fancied they must be near there somewhere. The place of
                            despatch did him no good from a material point of view, for he could
                            neither write nor pursue Suzanne on the strength of this. He would not
                            know where to find her. He could only wait, conscious that she was
                            having a struggle, perhaps as severe, or possibly more so, than his own.
                            He wandered about with this telegram in his pocket wondering when he
                            should hearwhat a day should bring forth, and all those who came in
                            contact with him noticed that there was something wrong.
                        Colfax saw him, and asked: "What's the matter, old man?
                            You're not looking as chipper as you might." He
                            fancied it might be something in connection with the Blue Sea
                            Corporation. He had heard, after he had learned that Eugene was in it,
                            that it would take much more money than had been invested to date to
                            make it a really successful seaside proposition according to the
                            original outlines, and that it would be years before it could possibly
                            yield an adequate return. If Eugene had put much money in it, he had
                            probably lost it or tied it up in a most unsatisfactory way. Well, it
                            served him right for trifling with things he knew nothing about.
                        "Oh, nothing," replied Eugene abstractedly.
                            "I'm all right. I'm just a little run down
                            physically. I'll come round."
                        "You'd better take a month or so off and brace up, if
                            you're not in shape."
                        "Oh, not at all! Nat now, anyhow."
                        It occurred to Eugene that he might use the time to advantage a little
                            later and that he would claim it.
                        They proceeded to business, but Colfax noticed that Eugene's
                            eyes were specially hollow and weary and that he was noticeably  restless. He wondered whether he might be
                            going to break down physically.
                        Suzanne had drifted along peacefully enough considering the nature of the
                            feeling between her and her mother at this time. After a few days of
                            desultory discussion, however, along the lines now so familiar, she
                            began to see that her mother had no intention of terminating their stay
                            at the time agreed upon, particularly since their return to New York
                            meant, so far as Suzanne was concerned, her immediate departure to
                            Witla. Mrs. Dale began at first to plead for additional delay, and later
                            that Suzanne should agree not to go to New York but to Lenox for a
                            season. It was cold up here already now, though there were still spells
                            of bright warm summery or autumn weather between ten and four in the
                            day, and sometimes in the evening. The nights usually were cold. Mrs.
                            Dale would gladly have welcomed a compromise, for it was terribly
                            lonely, just herself and Suzanneafter the gaieties of New York. Four
                            days before the time of her proposed departure, Mrs. Dale was still
                            obdurate or parleying in a diplomatic way, and Suzanne, disgusted, made
                            the threat which caused Mrs. Dale to wire distractedly to Eugene. Later,
                            she composed the following, which she gave to Gabrielle: 
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            "DEAR EUGENE
                                        
                                        If you love me, come and get me. I have told mama that if
                                            she did not keep her word to return with me to New York
                                            by the fifteenth, I would write to you and she is still
                                            obstinate. I am at the Cathcart Lodge, While-a-Way,
                                            eighteen miles north of Three Rivers, here in Canada.
                                            Anyone can show you. I will be here when you come. Do
                                            not try to write to me as I am afraid I should not get
                                            it. But I will be at the Lodge.
                                        
                                            "With love,
                                                "SUZANNE."
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        Eugene had never before received a love appeal, nor indeed any such
                            appeal from any woman in his life.
                        This letter reached him thirty-six hours after the telegram arrived, and
                            set him to planning at once. The hour had struck. He must act. Perhaps
                            this old world was now behind him forever. Could he really get Suzanne,
                            if he went to Canada to find her? How was she surrounded? He thrilled
                            with delight when he realized that it was Suzanne who was calling him
                            and that he was going to find her. "If you love me, come and
                            get me."
                        Would he?
                        Watch!
                        
                        He called for his car, telephoned his valet to pack his bag and bring it
                            to the Grand Central Station, first ascertaining for himself the time of
                            departure, asked to talk to Angela, who had gone to Myrtle's
                            apartment in upper Seventh Avenue, ready at last to confess her woes to
                            Eugene's sister. Her condition did not appeal to Eugene in this
                            situation. The inevitable result, which he thought of frequently, was
                            still far away. He notified Colfax that he was going to take a few days
                            rest, went to the bank where he had over four thousand dollars on
                            deposit, and drew it all. He then went to a ticket office and purchased
                            a one-way ticket, uncertain where his actions would take him once he saw
                            Suzanne. He tried once more to get Angela, intending boldly to tell her
                            that he was going to seek Suzanne, and to tell her not to worry, that he
                            would communicate with her, but she had not returned. Curiously, through
                            all this, he was intensely sorry for her, and wondered how she would
                            take it, if he did not return. How would the child be arranged for? He
                            felt he must go. Angela was heartsick, he knew that, and frightened.
                            Still he could not resist this call. He could not resist anything in
                            connection with this love affair. He was like a man possessed of a devil
                            or wandering in a dream. He knew that his whole career was at stake, but
                            it did not make any difference. He must get her. The whole world could
                            go hang if he could only obtain herher, the beautiful, the perfect!
                        At five-thirty the train departed, and then he sat as it rolled northward
                            speculating on what he was to do when he got there. If Three Rivers were
                            much of a place, he could probably hire an automobile. He could leave it
                            some distance from the lodge and then see if he could not approach
                            unobserved and signal Suzanne. If she were about, she would no doubt be
                            on the lookout. At a sign she would run to him. They would hurry to the
                            automobile. The pursuit might quickly follow, but he would arrange it so
                            that his pursuers would not know which railroad station he was going to.
                            Quebec was the nearest big city, he found by studying the map, though he
                            might return to Montreal and New York or Buffalo, if he chose to go
                            westhe would see how the train ran.
                        It is curious what vagaries the human mind is subject to, under
                            conditions of this kind. Up to the time of Eugene's arrival in
                            Three Rivers and after, he had no plan of campaign, or of future conduct
                            beyond that of obtaining Suzanne. He did not know that he would return
                            to New Yorkhe did not know that he would not. If Suzanne wished, and it
                            were best, and they could, they would go to England from Montreal, or
                            France.  If necessary, they could go to
                            Portland and sail. Mrs. Dale, on the evidence that he had Suzanne and
                            that of her own free will and volition, might yield and say nothing, in
                            which case he could return to New York and resume his position. This
                            courageous stand on his part if he had only followed it might have
                            solved the whole problem quickly. It might have been the sword that
                            would have cut the Gordian Knot. On the train was a heavy black-bearded
                            man, which was always good luck to him. At Three Rivers, when he
                            dismounted from the train, he found a horseshoe, which was also a lucky
                            sign. He did not stop to think what he would do if he really lost his
                            position and had to live on the sum he had with him. He was really not
                            thinking logically. He was dreaming. He fancied that he would get
                            Suzanne and have his salary, and that somehow things would be much as
                            they were. Of such is the logic of dreams.
                        When he arrived at Three Rivers, of course the conditions were not what
                            he anticipated. It is true that at times, after a long continued period
                            of dry weather, the roads were passable for automobiles, at least as far
                            as While-a-Way, but the weather had not recently been entirely dry.
                            There had been a short period of cold rain and the roads were
                            practically impassable, save for horses and carryalls. There was a
                            carryall which went as far as St. Jacques, four miles from While-a-Way,
                            where the driver told him he could get a horse, if he wanted one. The
                            owner of this hack line had a stable there.
                        This was gratifying to him, and he decided to make arrangements for two
                            horses at St. Jacques, which he would take to within a reasonable
                            distance of the lodge and tie in some spot where they would not be seen.
                            Then he could consider the situation and signal Suzanne; if she were
                            there on the lookout. How dramatic the end would be! How happy they
                            would be flying together! Judge then his astonishment on reaching St.
                            Jacques to find Mrs. Dale waiting for him. Word had been telephoned by
                            her faithful representative, the station agent at Three Rivers, that a
                            man of Eugene's description had arrived and departed for
                            While-a-Way. Before this a telegram had come from New York from Kinroy
                            to the effect that Eugene had gone somewhere. His daily habits since
                            Mrs. Dale had gone away had been under observation. Kinroy, on his
                            return, had called at the United Magazines Corporation and asked if
                            Eugene was in the city. Heretofore he had been reported in. When on this
                            day he was reported as having gone, Kinroy called up Angela to inquire.
                            She also stated that he had left the city. He then wired his mother and
                            she, calculating the time of his arrival, and hearing from the  station agent of his taking the carryall,
                            had gone down to meet him. She had decided to fight every inch of the
                            way with all the strategy at her command. She did not want to kill
                            himhad not really the courage to do thatbut she still hoped to dissuade
                            him. She had not been able to bring herself to resort to guards and
                            detectives as yet. He could not be as hard as he looked and acted.
                            Suzanne was bedeviling him by her support and communications. She had
                            not been able to govern there, she saw. Her only hope was to talk him
                            out of it, or into an additional delay. If necessary, they would all go
                            back to New York together and she would appeal to Colfax and Winfield.
                            She hoped they would persuade him to reason. Anyhow, she would never
                            leave Suzanne for one moment until this thing had been settled in her
                            favor, or brutally against her.
                        When Eugene appeared she greeted him with her old social smile and called
                            to him affably: "Come, get in."
                        He looked at her grimly and obeyed, but changed his manner when he saw
                            that she was really kindly in her tone and greeted her sociably.
                        "How have you been?" he asked.
                        "Oh, quite well, thank you!"
                        "And how is Suzanne?"
                        "All right, I fancy. She isn't here, you
                            know."
                        "Where is she?" asked Eugene, his face a study in
                            defeat.
                        "She went with some friends to visit Quebec for ten days. Then
                            she is going from there to New York. I don't expect to see her
                            here any more."
                        Eugene choked with a sense of repugnance to her airy taradiddles. He did
                            not believe what she was sayingsaw at once that she was fencing with
                            him.
                        "That's a lie," he said roughly, "and
                            it's out of the whole cloth! She's here, and you know
                            it. Anyhow, I am going to see for myself."
                        "How polite you are!" she laughed diplomatically.
                            "That isn't the way you usually talk. Anyhow, she
                            isn't here. You'll find that out, if you insist. I
                            wouldn't advise you to insist, for I've sent for
                            counsel since I heard you were coming, and you will find detectives as
                            well as guards waiting to receive you. She isn't here, though,
                            even at that, and you might just as well turn round and go back. I will
                            drive you over to Three Rivers, if you wish. Why not be reasonable, now,
                            and avoid a scene? She isn't here. You couldn't have
                            her if she were. The people I have employed will prevent that. If you
                            make trouble, you will simply be arrested and then the newspapers will
                            have it.  Why not be reasonable now, Mr.
                            Witla, and go on back? You have everything to lose. There is a train
                            through Three Rivers from Quebec for New York at eleven tonight. We can
                            make it. Don't you want to do that? I will agree, if you come
                            to your senses now, and cause me no trouble here, to bring Suzanne back
                            to New York within a month. I won't let you have her unless you
                            get a divorce and straighten things out with your wife, but if you can
                            do that within six months, or a year, and she still wants you, you can
                            have her. I will promise in writing to withdraw all objection, and see
                            that her full share of her property comes to her uncontested. I will
                            help you and her socially all I can. You know I am not without
                            influence."
                        "I want to see her first," replied Eugene grimly and
                            disbelievingly.
                        "I won't say that I will forget everything,"
                            went on Mrs. Dale, ignoring his interpolated remark. "I
                            can'tbut I will pretend to. You can have the use of my country
                            place at Lenox. I will buy out the lease at Morristown, or the New York
                            House, and you can live in either place. I will set aside a sum of money
                            for your wife, if you wish. That may help you obtain your release.
                            Surely you do not want to take her under the illegal condition which you
                            propose, when you can have her outright in this brilliant manner by
                            waiting a little while. She says she does not want to get married, but
                            that is silly talk, based on nothing except erratic reading. She does,
                            or she will, the moment she comes to think about it seriously. Why not
                            help her? Why not go back now and let me bring her to New York a little
                            later and then we will talk this all over. I shall be very glad to have
                            you in my family. You are a brilliant man. I have always liked you. Why
                            not be reasonable? Come now and let's drive over to Three
                            Rivers and you take the train back to New York, will you?"
                        While Mrs. Dale had been talking, Eugene had been surveying her calmly.
                            What a clever talker she was! How she could lie! He did not believe her.
                            He did not believe one word that she said. She was fighting to keep him
                            from Suzanne, why he could readily understand. Suzanne was somewhere,
                            here, he fancied, though, as in the case of her recent trip to Albany,
                            she might have been spirited away.
                        "Absurd!" said Eugene easily, defiantly, indifferently.
                            "I'll not do anything of the sort. In the first place,
                            I don't believe you. If you are so anxious to be nice to me,
                            let me see her, and then you can say all this in front of her.
                            I've come up here to see her, and I'm going to.
                            She's here. I know she is.
                        
                        You needn't lie. You needn't talk. I know
                            she's here. Now I'm going to see her, if I have to
                            stay here a month and search."
                        Mrs. Dale stirred nervously. She knew that Eugene was desperate. She knew
                            that Suzanne had written to him. Talk might be useless. Strategy might
                            not avail, but she could not help using it.
                        "Listen to me," she said excitedly. "I tell
                            you Suzanne is not here. She's gone. There are guards up
                            therelots of them. They know who you are. They have your description.
                            They have orders to kill you, if you try to break in. Kinroy is there.
                            He is desperate. I have been having a struggle to prevent his killing
                            you already. The place is watched. We are watched at this moment.
                            Won't you be reasonable? You can't see her.
                            She's gone. Why make all this fuss? Why take your life in your
                            hands?"
                        "Don't talk," said Eugene.
                            "You're lying. I can see it in your face. Besides, my
                            life is nothing. I am not afraid. Why talk? She's here.
                            I'm going to see her."
                        He stared before him and Mrs. Dale ruminated as to what she was to do.
                            There were no guards or detectives, as she said. Kinroy was not there.
                            Suzanne was not away. This was all palaver, as Eugene suspected, for she
                            was too anxious to avoid publicity to give any grounds for it, before
                            she was absolutely driven.
                        It was a rather halcyon evening after some days of exceeding chill. A
                            bright moon was coming up in the east, already discernible in the
                            twilight, but which later would shine brilliantly. It was not cold but
                            really pleasantly warm, and the rough road along which they were driving
                            was richly odorous. Eugene was not unconscious of its beauty, but
                            depressed by the possibility of Suzanne's absence.
                        "Oh, do be generous," pleaded Mrs. Dale, who feared
                            that once they saw each other, reason would disappear. Suzanne would
                            demand, as she had been continually demanding, to be taken back to New
                            York. Eugene with or without Suzanne's consent or plea, would
                            ignore her overtures of compromise and there would be immediate
                            departure or defiant union here. She thought she would kill them if need
                            be, but in the face of Eugene's defiant persistence on one
                            side, and Suzanne's on the other, her courage was failing. She
                            was frightened by the daring of this man. "I will keep my
                            word," she observed distractedly. "Honestly she
                            isn't here. She's in Quebec, I tell you. Wait a month.
                            I will bring her back then. We will arrange things together. Why
                            can't you be generous?"
                        
                        "I could be," said Eugene, who was considering all the
                            brilliant prospects which her proposal involved and being moved by them,
                            "but I can't believe you. You're not telling
                            me the truth. You didn't tell the truth to Suzanne when you
                            took her from New York. That was a trick, and this is another. I know
                            she isn't away. She's right up there in the lodge,
                            wherever it is. You take me to her and then we will talk this thing out
                            together. By the way, where are you going?"
                        Mrs. Dale had turned into a bypath or half-formed road closely lined with
                            small trees and looking as though it might be a woodchoppers'
                            path.
                        "To the lodge."
                        "I don't believe it," replied Eugene, who was
                            intensely suspicious. "This isn't a main road to any
                            such place as that."
                        "I tell you it is."
                        Mrs. Dale was nearing the precincts of the lodge and wanted more time to
                            talk and plead.
                        "Well," said Eugene, "you can go this way if
                            you want to. I'm going to get out and walk. You can't
                            throw me off by driving me around in some general way. I'm
                            going to stay here a week, a month, two months, if necessary, but
                            I'm not going back without seeing Suzanne. She's here,
                            and I know it. I'll go up alone and find her. I'm not
                            afraid of your guards."
                        He jumped out and Mrs. Dale gave up in despair. "Wait,"
                            she pleaded. "It's over two miles yet. I'll
                            take you there. She isn't home tonight, anyhow. She's
                            over at the cottage of the caretaker. Oh, why won't you be
                            reasonable? I'll bring her to New York, I tell you. Are you
                            going to throw aside all those fine prospects and wreck your Life and
                            hers and mine? Oh, if Mr. Dale were only alive! If I had a man on whom I
                            could rely! Come, get in, and I'll drive you up there, but
                            promise me you won't ask to see her tonight. She isn't
                            there, anyway. She's over at the caretaker's. Oh,
                            dear, if only something would happen to solve this!"
                        "I thought you said she was in Quebec?"
                        "I only said that to gain time. I'm so unstrung. It
                            wasn't true, but she isn't at the lodge, truly.
                            She's away tonight. I can't let you stay there. Let me
                            take you back to St. Jacques and you can stay with old Pierre Gaine. You
                            can come up in the morning. The servants will think it so strange. I
                            promise you you shall see Suzanne. I give you my word."
                        "Your word. Why, Mrs. Dale, you're going around in a
                            ring! I can't believe anything you say," replied
                            Eugene calmly. He was very much collected and elated now since he knew
                            that  Suzanne was here. He was going to
                            see herhe felt it. He had Mrs. Dale badly worsted, and he proposed to
                            drive her until, in the presence of Suzanne, he and his beloved dictated
                            terms.
                        "I'm going there tonight and you are going to bring her
                            to me. If she isn't there, you know where to find her.
                            She's here, and I'm going to see her tonight.
                            We'll talk of all this you're proposing in front of
                            her. It's silly to twist things around this way. The girl is
                            with me, and you know it. She's mine. You can't
                            control her. Now we two will talk to you together."
                        He sat back in the light vehicle and began to hum a tune. The moon was
                            getting clearer.
                        "Promise me just one thing," urged Mrs. Dale
                            despairingly. "Promise me that you will urge Suzanne to accept
                            my proposition. A few months won't hurt. You can see her in New
                            York as usual. Go about getting a divorce. You are the only one who has
                            any influence with her. I admit it. She won't believe me. She
                            won't listen to me. You tell her. Your future is in it.
                            Persuade her to wait. Persuade her to stay up here or at Lenox for a
                            little while and then come down. She will obey you. She will believe
                            anything you say. I have lied. I have lied terribly all through this,
                            but you can't blame me. Put yourself in my place. Think of my
                            position. Please use your influence. I will do all that I say and
                            more."
                        "Will you bring Suzanne to me tonight?"
                        "Yes, if you promise."
                        "Will you bring her to me tonight, promise or no promise? I
                            don't want to say anything to you which I can't say in
                            front of her."
                        "Won't you promise me that you will accept my
                            proposition and urge her to?"
                        "I think I will, but I won't say. I want her to hear
                            what you have to say. I think I will."
                        Mrs. Dale shook her head despondently.
                        "You might as well acquiesce," went on Eugene.
                            "I'm going to see her anyhow, whether you will or no.
                            She's there, and I'll find her if I have to search the
                            house room by room. She can hear my voice."
                        He was carrying things with a high hand.
                        "Well," replied Mrs. Dale, "I suppose I must.
                            Please don't let on to the servants. Pretend you're my
                            guest. Let me take you back to St. Jacques tonight, after you see her.
                            Don't stay with her more than half an hour."
                        She was absolutely frightened out of her wits at this terrific
                            dnouement.
                        
                        Eugene sat grimly congratulating himself as they jogged on in the
                            moonlight. He actually squeezed her arm cheerfully and told her not to
                            be so despairingthat all would come out all right. They would talk to
                            Suzanne. He would see what she would have to say.
                        "You stay here," she said, as they reached a little
                            wooded knoll in a bend of the roada high spot commanding a vast stretch
                            of torritory now lit by a glistening northern moon.
                            "I'll go right inside and get her. I don't
                            know whether she's there, but if she isn't,
                            she's over at the caretaker's, and we'll go
                            over there. I don't want the servants to see you meet her.
                            Please don't be demonstrative. Oh, be careful!"
                        Eugene smiled. How excited she was! How pointless, after all her threats!
                            So this was victory. What a fight he had made! Here he was outside this
                            beautiful lodge, the lights of which he could see gleaming like yellow
                            gold through the silvery shadows. The air was full of field fragrances.
                            You could smell the dewy earth, soon to be hard and covered deep in
                            snow. There was still a bird's voice here and there and faint
                            stirrings of the wind in the leaves. "On such a
                            night," came back Shakespeare's lines. How fitting
                            that Suzanne should come to him under such conditions! Oh, the wonder of
                            this romancethe beauty of it! From the very beginning it had been set
                            about with perfections of scenery and material environment. Obviously,
                            nature had intended this as the crowning event of his life. Life
                            recognized him as a geniusthe fatesit was heaping posies in his lap,
                            laying a crown of victory upon his brow.
                        He waited while Mrs. Dale went to the lodge, and then after a time, true
                            enough, there appeared in the distance the swinging, buoyant, girlish
                            form of Suzanne. She was plump, healthful, vigorous. He could detect her
                            in the shadows under the trees and behind her a little way Mrs. Dale.
                            Suzanne came eagerly onyouthful, buoyant, dancing, determined,
                            beautiful. Her skirts were swinging about her body in ripples as she
                            strode. She looked all Eugene had ever thought her. Hebea young Diana, a
                            Venus at nineteen. Her lips were parted in a welcoming smile as she drew
                            near and her eyes were as placid as those dull opals which still burn
                            with a hidden lustre of gold and flame.
                        She held out her arms to him as she came, running the last few steps.
                        "Suzanne!" called her mother. "For
                            shame!"
                        "Hush, mama!" declared Suzanne defiantly. "I
                            don't care. I don't care. It's your fault.
                            You shouldn't have lied to me.
                        
                        He wouldn't have come if I hadn't sent for him.
                            I'm going back to New York. I told you I was."
                        She did not say, "Oh, Eugene!" as she came close, but
                            gathered his face in her hands and looked eagerly into his eyes. His
                            burned into hers. She stepped back and opened wide her arms only to fold
                            them tightly about him.
                        "At last! At last!" he said, kissing her feverishly.
                            "Oh, Suzanne! Oh, Flower Face!"
                        "I knew you would come," she said. "I told her
                            you would. I'll go back with you."
                        "Yes, yes," said Eugene. "Oh, this wonderful
                            night! This wonderful climax! Oh, to have you in my arms
                            again!"
                        Mrs. Dale stood by, white, intense. To think a daughter of hers should
                            act like this, confound her so, make her a helpless spectator of her
                            iniquity. What an astounding, terrible, impossible thing!
                        "Suzanne!" she cried. "Oh, that I should have
                            lived to see this day!"
                        "I told you, mama, that you would regret bringing me up
                            here," declared Suzanne. "I told you I would write to
                            him. I knew you would come," she said to Eugene, and she
                            squeezed his hand affectionately.
                        Eugene inhaled a deep breath and stared at her. The night, the stars
                            swung around him in a gorgeous orbit. Thus it was to be victorious. It
                            was too beautiful, too wonderful! To think he should have triumphed in
                            this way! Could any other man anywhere ever have enjoyed such a
                            victory?
                        "Oh, Suzanne," he said eagerly, "this is like
                            a dream; it's like heaven! I can scarcely believe I am
                            alive."
                        "Yes, yes," she replied, "it is beautiful,
                            perfect!" And together they strolled away from her mother, hand
                            in hand.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XX
                        THE flaw in this situation was that Eugene, after getting Suzanne in his
                            arms once more, had no particular solution to offer. Instead of at once
                            outlining an open or secret scheme of escape, or taking her by main
                            force and walking off with her, as she more than half expected him to
                            do, here he was repeating to her what her mother had told him, and
                            instead of saying "Come!" he was asking her
                            advice.
                        "This is what your mother proposed to me just now,
                            Suzanne," he began, and entered upon a full explanation. It was
                            a vision of empire to him.
                        "I said to her," he said, speaking of her mother, who
                            was near by, "that I would decide nothing. She wanted me to say
                            that I would do this, but I insisted that it must be left to you. If you
                            want to go back to New York, we will go, tonight or tomorrow. If you
                            want to accept this plan of your mother's, it's all
                            right, so far as I am concerned. I would rather have you now, but if I
                            can see you, I am willing to wait."
                        He was calm now, logical, foolishly speculative. Suzanne wondered at
                            this. She had no advice to offer. She had expected some dramatic climax,
                            but since it had not come about, she had to be content. The truth was
                            that she had been swept along by her desire to be with Eugene. It had
                            seemed to her in the beginning that it was not possible for him to get a
                            divorce. It had seemed also from her reading and youthful philosophizing
                            that it was really not necessary. She did not want to be mean to Angela.
                            She did not want Eugene to mortify her by openly leaving her. She had
                            fancied since Eugene had said that Angela was not satisfactory to him
                            and that there was no real love between, that Angela really did not
                            careshe had practically admitted as much in her letterthat it would not
                            make so much difference if she shared him with her. What was he
                            explaining nowa new theory as to what they were to do? She thought he
                            was coming for her to take her away like a god, whereas here he was
                            presenting a new theory to her in anything but a god-like way. It was
                            confusing. She did not know how it was that Eugene did not want to leave
                            at once.
                        "Well, I don't knowwhatever you think," she
                            said. "If you want me to stay here another month"
                        "No no!" exclaimed Eugene quickly, conscious of a flaw
                            in  the arrangement, and anxious to make
                            it seem right. "I didn't mean that. Not that. I want
                            you to come back with me now, if possible, tonight, only I wanted to
                            tell you this. Your mother seems sincere. It seems a shame if we can
                            keep friends with her and still have our way, not to do so. I
                            don't want to do any greater harm than I can help unless you
                            are perfectly willing and" He hesitated over his own
                            thoughts.
                        At this moment Suzanne could scarcely have told what she felt. The crux
                            of the situation was being put to her for her decision, and it should
                            not be. She was not strong enough, not experienced enough. Eugene should
                            decide, and whatover he decided would be right.
                        The truth was that after getting her in his arms again, and that in the
                            presence of her mother, Eugene did not feel that he was quite so much
                            the victor as he had imagined, or that the whole problem of his life was
                            solved. He could not very well ignore, he thought, what Mrs. Dale had to
                            offer, if she was offering it seriously. She had said to him just before
                            he came into the presence of Suzanne that unless he accepted these terms
                            she would go on fightingthat she would telegraph to Colfax and ask him
                            to come up here. Although Eugene had drawn his money and was ready to
                            fly if he could, still the thought of Colfax and the desire to keep his
                            present state of social security and gain all Mrs. Dale had to offer
                            besides were deterrents. He hesitated. Wasn't there some way to
                            smooth everything out?
                        "I don't want you to decide finally," he said,
                            "but what do you think?"
                        Suzanne was in a simmering, nebulous state, and could not think. Eugene
                            was here. This was Arcady and the moon was high.
                        It was beautiful to have him with her again. It was wonderful to feel his
                            caresses. But he was not flying with her. They were not defying the
                            world; they were not doing what she fancied they would be doing, rushing
                            to victory, and that was what she had sent for him for. Mrs. Dale was
                            going to help Eugene get a divorce, so she said. She was going to help
                            subsidize Angela, if necessary. Suzanne was going to get married, and
                            actually settle down after a time. What a curious thought. Why that was
                            not what she had wanted to do. She had wanted to flout convention in
                            some way; to do original things as she had planned, as she had dreamed.
                            It might be disastrous, but she did not think so. Her mother would have
                            yielded. Why was Eugene compromising? It was curious. Such thoughts as
                            these formulated in her mind at this time 
                            were the most disastrous things that could happen to their romance.
                            Union should have followed his presence. Flight should have been a
                            portion of it. As it was she was in his arms, but she was turning over
                            vague, nebulous thoughts. Somethinga pale mist before an otherwise
                            brilliant moon; a bit of spindrift; a speck of cloud, no bigger than a
                            man's hand that might possibly portend something and might not,
                            had come over the situation. Eugene was as desirable as ever, but he was
                            not flying with her. They were talking about going back to New York
                            afterwards, but they were not going together at once. How was that?
                        "Do you think mama can really damage you with Mr.
                            Colfax?" she asked curiously at one point, after Eugene had
                            mentioned her mother's threat.
                        "I don't know," he replied solemnly.
                            "Yes, I think she could. I don't know what
                            he'd do, though. It doesn't matter much one way or the
                            other," he added. Suzanne puzzled.
                        "Well, if you want to wait, it's all right,"
                            she said. "I want to do whatever you think best. I
                            don't want you to lose your position. If you think we ought to
                            wait, we will."
                        "Not if I'm not to be with you regularly,"
                            replied Eugene, who was wavering. He was not your true champion of
                            victoryyour administrative leader. Foolishly he was spelling over an
                            arrangement whereby he could eat his cake and have itsee Suzanne, drive
                            with her, dance with her, all but live with her in New York until such
                            time as the actual union could be arranged secretly or openly. Mrs. Dale
                            was promising to receive him as a son, but she was merely plotting for
                            timetime to think, act, permit Suzanne, under argument, to come to her
                            senses. Time would solve everything, she thought, and tonight as she
                            hung about, keeping close and overhearing some of Eugene's
                            remarks, she felt relieved. Either he was coming to his senses and
                            beginning to regret his folly or he was being deluded by her lies. If
                            she could keep him and Suzanne apart one more week, and get to New York
                            herself, she would go to Colfax now, and to Winfield, and see if they
                            could not be induced to use their good offices. Eugene must be broken.
                            He was erratic, insane. Her lies were apparently plausible enough to
                            gain her this delay, and that was all she wanted.
                        "Well, I don't know. Whatever you think," said
                            Suzanne again, after a time between embraces and kisses, "do
                            you want me to come back with you tomorrow, or"
                        "Yes, yes," he replied quickly and vigorously,
                            "tomorrow, only we must try and argue your mother into the
                            right frame of  mind. She feels that she
                            has lost now since we are together, and we must keep her in that mind.
                            She talks compromise and that's just what we want. If she is
                            willing to have us make some arrangement, why not? I would be willing to
                            let things rest for a week or so, just to give her a chance if she
                            wishes. If she doesn't change then we can act. You could come
                            as far as Lenox for a week, and then come on."
                        He talked like one who had won a great victory, whereas he had really
                            suffered a great defeat. He was not taking Suzanne.
                        Suzanne brooded. It was not what she expectedbut
                        "Yes," she said, after a time.
                        "Will you return with me tomorrow?"
                        "Yes."
                        "As far as Lenox or New York?"
                        "We'll see what mama says. If you can agree with
                            heranything you wantI am willing."
                        After a time Eugene and Suzanne parted for the night. It was agreed that
                            they should see each other in the morning, that they should go back as
                            far as Lenox together. Mrs. Dale was to help Eugene get a divorce. It
                            was a delightfully affectionate and satisfactory situation, but somehow
                            Eugene felt that he was not handling it right. He went to bed in one
                            part of the house Suzanne in anotherMrs. Dale, fearful and watchful,
                            staying near by, but there was no need. He was not desperate. He went to
                            sleep thinking that the near future was going to adjust everything for
                            him nicely, and that he and Suzanne were eventually going to get
                            married.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XXI
                        THE next day, after wavering whether they would not spend a few days here
                            in billing and cooing and listening to Mrs. Dale's veiled pleas
                            as to what the servants might think, or what they might know already or
                            suspect from what the station master at Three Rivers might say, they
                            decided to return, Eugene to New York, Suzanne to Lenox. All the way
                            back to Albany, Eugene and Suzanne sat together in one seat in the
                            Pullman like two children rejoicing in each other's company.
                            Mrs. Dale sat one seat away, turning over her promises and pondering
                            whether, after all, she had not yet better go at once and try to end all
                            by an appeal to Colfax, or whether she had better wait a little while
                            and see if the affair might not die down of its own accord.
                        At Albany the following morning, Suzanne and Mrs. Dale transferred to the
                            Boston and Albany, Eugene going on to New York. He went to the office
                            feeling much relieved, and later in the day to his apartment. Angela,
                            who had been under a terrific strain, stared at him as if he were a
                            ghost, or one come back to life from the dead. She had not known where
                            he had gone. She had not known whether he would ever come back. There
                            was no use in reproaching himshe had realized that long since. The best
                            she could do was to make an appeal. She waited until after dinner, at
                            which they had discussed the mere commonplaces of life, and then came to
                            his room, where he was unpacking.
                        "Did you go to find Suzanne?" she asked.
                        "Yes."
                        "Is she with you?"
                        "No."
                        "Oh, Eugene, do you know where I have spent the last three
                            days?" she asked.
                        He did not answer.
                        "On my knees. On my knees," she declared,
                            "asking God to save you from yourself."
                        "Don't talk rot, Angela," he returned coldly.
                            "You know how I feel about this thing. How much worse am I now
                            than I was before? I tried to get you on the phone to tell you. I went
                            to find her and bring her back, and I did as far as Lenox. I am going to
                            win this fight. I am going to get Suzanne,  either legally or otherwise. If you want to give me a divorce, you
                            can. I will provide amply for you. If you don't I'm
                            going to take her, anyhow. That's understood between me and
                            her. Now what's the use of hysterics?"
                        Angela looked at him tearfully. Could this be the Eugene she had known?
                            In each scene with him, after each plea, or through it, she came to this
                            adamantine wall. Was he really so frantic about this girl? Was he going
                            to do what he said? He outlined to her quite calmly his plans as
                            recently revised, and at one point Angela, speaking of Mrs. Dale,
                            interrupted him"she will never give her up to youyou will see.
                            You think she will. She says she will. She is only fooling you. She is
                            fighting for time. Think what you are doing. You can't
                            win."
                        "Oh, yes, I can," said Eugene, "I practically
                            have already. She will come to me."
                        "She may, she may, but at what a cost. Look at me, Eugene. Am I
                            not enough? I am still good looking. You have declared to me time and
                            again that I have a beautiful form. See, see"she tore open her
                            dressing gown and the robe do nuit, in which she had come in. She had
                            arranged this scene, especially thought it out, and hoped it would move
                            him. "Am I not enough? Am I not still all that you
                            desire?"
                        Eugene turned his head away in disgustwearilysick of their melodramatic
                            appeals. This was the last rle Angela should have played. It was the
                            most ineffectual, the least appropriate at the moment. It was dramatic,
                            striking, but totally ineffective under the circumstances.
                        "It's useless acting in that way to me,
                            Angela," he said. "I'm no longer to be moved
                            in that way by you. All marital affection between us is deadterribly so.
                            Why plead to me with something that has no appeal. I can't help
                            it. It's dead. Now what are we going to do about
                            it?"
                        Once more Angela turned wearily. Although she was nerve worn and
                            despairing, she was still fascinated by the tragedy which was being
                            played out under her eyes. Would nothing make him see?
                        They went their separate ways for the night, and the next day he was at
                            his desk again. Word came from Suzanne that she was still in Lenox, and
                            then that her mother had gone to Boston for a day or two on a visit. The
                            fifth day Colfax stepped into his office, and, hailing him pleasantly,
                            sat down.
                        "Well, how are things with you, old man?" he asked.
                        "Oh, about the same," said Eugene. "I
                            can't complain."
                        
                        "Everything going all right with you?"
                        "Yes, moderately so."
                        "People don't usually butt in on you here when
                            I'm here, do they?" he asked curiously.
                        "I've given orders against anything like that, but
                            I'll make it doubly sure in this case," said Eugene,
                            alert at once. Could Colfax be going to talk to him about anything in
                            connection with his case? He paled a little.
                        Colfax looked out of the window at the distant panorama of the Hudson. He
                            took out a cigar, and cut the end, but did not light it.
                        "I asked you about not being interrupted," he began
                            thoughtfully, "because I have a little something I want to talk
                            to you about, which I would rather no one else heard. Mrs. Dale came to
                            me the other day," he said quietly. Eugene started at the
                            mention of her name and paled still more, but gave no other outward
                            sign. "And she told me a long story about something that you
                            were trying to do in connection with her daughterrun away with her, or
                            go and live with her without a license or a divorce, or desert your
                            wife, or something to that effect, which I didn't pay much
                            attention to, but which I have to talk to you about just the same. Now,
                            I never like to meddle with a man's personal affairs. I
                            don't think that they concern me. I don't think they
                            concern this business, except in so far as they may affect it
                            unfavorably, but I would like to know if it is true. Is
                            it?"
                        "Yes," said Eugene.
                        "Mrs. Dale is an old friend of mine. I've known her for
                            years. I know Mrs. Witla, of course, but not quite in the same way. I
                            haven't seen as much of her as I have of you. I didn't
                            know that you were unhappily married, but that is neither here nor
                            there. The point is, that she seems to be on the verge of making a great
                            scandal out of thisshe seems a little distracted to meand I thought
                            I'd better come up and have a little talk with you before
                            anything serious really happened. You know it would be a rather damaging
                            thing to this business if any scandal were started in connection with
                            you just at present."
                        He paused, expecting some protest or explanation, but Eugene merely held
                            his peace. He was tense, pale, harried. So she had gone to Colfax, after
                            all. Instead of going to Boston; instead of keeping her word, she had
                            come down here to New York and gone to Colfax. Had she told him the full
                            story? Very likely Colfax, in spite of all his smooth words, would be
                            inclined to sympathize with her. What must he think of him?
                        
                        He was rather conservative in a social way. Mrs. Dale could be of service
                            to him in her world in one way and another. He had never seen Colfax
                            quite so cool and deliberate as he was now. He seemed to be trying to
                            maintain an exceedingly judicial and impartial tone, which was not
                            characteristic.
                        "You have always been an interesting study to me, Witla, ever
                            since I first met you," he went on, after a time.
                            "You're a genius, I fancy, if there ever was one, but
                            like all geniuses you are afflicted with tendencies which are erratic. I
                            used to think for a little while that maybe you sat down and planned the
                            things which you have carried through so successfully, but I have since
                            concluded that you don't. You attract some forms of force and
                            order. Also, I think you have various other facultiesit would be hard
                            for me to say just what they are. One is vision. I know you have that.
                            Another is appreciation of ability. I know you have that. I have seen
                            you pick some exceptional people. You plan in a way, but you
                            don't plan logically or deliberately, unless I am greatly
                            mistaken. The matter of this Dale girl now is an interesting case in
                            point, I think."
                        "Let's not talk of her," said Eugene frigidly
                            and bridling slightly. Suzanne was a sore point with him. A dangerous
                            subject. Colfax saw it. "That's something I
                            can't talk about very well."
                        "Well, we won't," put in the other calmly,
                            "but the point can be established in other ways.
                            You'll admit, I think, that you haven't been planning
                            very well in connection with this present situation, for if you had
                            been, you would see that in doing what you have been doing you have been
                            riding straight for a fall. If you were going to take the girl, and she
                            was willing, as she appears to be, you should have taken her without her
                            mother's knowledge, old man. She might have been able to adjust
                            things afterward. If not, you would have had her, and I suppose you
                            would have been willing to suffer the consequences, if you had been
                            caught. As it is, you have let Mrs. Dale in on it, and she has powerful
                            friends. You can't ignore her. I can't. She is in a
                            fighting mood, and it looks as though she were going to bring
                            considerable pressure to bear to make you let go."
                        He paused again, waiting to see if Eugene would say something, but the
                            latter made no comment.
                        "I want to ask one question, and I don't want you to
                            take any offense at it, for I don't mean anything by it, but it
                            will help to clear this matter up in my own mind, and probably  in yours later, if you will. Have you had
                            anything to do in a compromising way with Miss?"
                        "No," said Eugene before he could finish.
                        "How long has this fight been going on?"
                        "Oh, about four weeks, or a little less."
                        Colfax bit at the end of his cigar.
                        "You have powerful enemies here, you know, Witla. Your rule
                            hasn't been very lenient. One of the things I have noticed
                            about you is your utter inability to play politics. You have picked men
                            who would be very glad to have your shoes, if they could. If they could
                            get the details of this predicament, your situation wouldn't be
                            tenable more than fifteen minutes. You know that, of course. In spite of
                            anything I might do you would have to resign. You couldn't
                            maintain yourself here. I couldn't let you. You
                            haven't thought of that in this connection, I suppose. No man
                            in love does. I know just how you feel. From having seen Mrs. Witla, I
                            can tell in a way just what the trouble is. You have been reined in too
                            close. You haven't been master in your own home. It's
                            irritated you. Life has appeared to be a failure. You have lost your
                            chance, or thought you had on this matrimonial game, and it's
                            made you restless. I know this girl. She's beautiful. But just
                            as I say, old man, you haven't counted the costyou
                            haven't calculated rightyou haven't planned. If
                            anything could prove to me what I have always faintly suspected about
                            you, it is this: You don't plan carefully enough"and
                            he looked out of the window.
                        Eugene sat staring at the floor. He couldn't make out just what
                            it was that Colfax intended to do about it. He was calmer in his
                            thinking than he had ever seen him beforeless dramatic. As a rule,
                            Colfax yelled thingsdemonstrated, performedmade excited motions. This
                            morning, he was slow, thoughtful, possibly emotional.
                        "In spite of the fact that I like you personally, Witlaand every
                            man owes a little something to friendshipit can't be worked out
                            in business, thoughI have been slowly coming to the conclusion that
                            perhaps, after all, you aren't just the ideal man for this
                            place. You're too emotional, I fancytoo erratic. White has been
                            trying to tell me that for a long time, but I wouldn't believe
                            it. I'm not taking his judgment now. I don't know that
                            I would ever have acted on that feeling or idea, if this thing
                            hadn't come up. I don't know that I am going to do so
                            finally, but it strikes me that you are in a very ticklish positionone
                            rather dangerous to this house, and you know  that this house could never brook a scandal. Why the
                            newspapers would never get over it. It would do us infinite harm. I
                            think, viewing it all in all, that you had better take a year off and
                            see if you can't straighten this out quietly. I don't
                            think you had better try to take this girl unless you can get a divorce
                            and marry her, and I don't think you had better try to get a
                            divorce unless you can do it quietly. I mean so far as your position
                            here is concerned only. Apart from that, you can do what you please. But
                            remember! a scandal would affect your usefulness here. If things can be
                            patched up, well and good. If not, well then they can't. If
                            this thing gets talked about much, you know that there will be no hope
                            of your coming back here. I don't suppose you would be willing
                            to give her up?"
                        "No," said Eugene.
                        "I thought as much. I know just how you take a thing of this
                            kind. It hits your type hard. Can you get a divorce from Mrs.
                            Witla?"
                        "I'm not so sure," said Eugene. "I
                            haven't any suitable grounds. We simply don't agree,
                            that's allmy life has been a hollow shell."
                        "Well," said Colfax, "it's a bad mix
                            up all around. I know how you feel about the girl. She's very
                            beautiful. She's just the sort to bring about a situation of
                            this kind. I don't want to tell you what to do. You are your
                            own best judge, but if you will take my advice, you won't try
                            to live with her without first marrying her. A man in your position
                            can't afford to do it. You're too much in the public
                            eye. You know you have become fairly conspicuous in New York during the
                            last few years, don't you?"
                        "Yes," said Eugene. "I thought I had arranged
                            that matter with Mrs. Dale."
                        "It appears not. She tells me that you are trying to persuade
                            her daughter to live with you; that you have no means of obtaining a
                            divorce within a reasonable time; that your wife is in apardon me, and
                            that you insist on associating with her daughter, meanwhile, which
                            isn't possible, according to her. I'm inclined to
                            think she's right. It's hard, but it can't be
                            helped. She says that you say that if you are not allowed to do that,
                            you will take her and live with her."
                        He paused again. "Will you?"
                        "Yes," said Eugene.
                        Colfax twisted slowly in his chair and looked out of the window. What a
                            man! What a curious thing love was!
                        
                        "When is it," he asked finally, "that you
                            think you might do this?"
                        "Oh, I don't know. I'm all tangled up now.
                            I'll have to think."
                        Colfax meditated.
                        "It's a peculiar business. Few people would understand
                            this as well as I do. Few people would understand you, Witla, as I do.
                            You haven't calculated right, old man, and you'll have
                            to pay the price. We all do. I can't let you stay here. I wish
                            I could, but I can't. You'll have to take a year off
                            and think this thing out. If nothing happensif no scandal ariseswell, I
                            won't say what I'll do. I might make a berth for you
                            here somewherenot exactly in the same position, perhaps, but somewhere.
                            I'll have to think about that. Meanwhile"he stopped
                            and thought again.
                        Eugene was seeing clearly how it was with him. All this talk about coming
                            back meant nothing. The thing that was apparent in Colfax's
                            mind was that he would have to go, and the reason that he would have to
                            go was not Mrs. Dale or Suzanne, or the moral issue involved, but the
                            fact that he had lost Colfax's confidence in him. Somehow,
                            through White, through Mrs. Dale, through his own actions day in and day
                            out, Colfax had come to the conclusion that he was erratic, uncertain,
                            and, for that reason, nothing else, he was being dispensed with now. It
                            was Suzanneit was fate, his own unfortunate temperament. He brooded
                            pathetically, and then he said: "When do you want this to
                            happen?"
                        "Oh, any time, the quicker, the better, if a public scandal is
                            to grow out of it. If you want you can take your time, three weeks, a
                            month, six weeks. You had better make it a matter of health and resign
                            for your own good.I mean the looks of the thing. That won't
                            make any difference in my subsequent conclusions. This place is arranged
                            so well now, that it can run nicely for a year without much trouble. We
                            might fix this up againit depends"
                        Eugene wished he had not added the last hypocritical phrase.
                        He shook hands and went to the door and Eugene strolled to the window.
                            Here was all the solid foundation knocked from under him at one fell
                            stroke, as if by a cannon. He had lost this truly magnificent position,
                            $25,000 a year. Where would he get another like it? Who elsewhat other
                            company could pay any such salary? How could he maintain the Riverside
                            Drive apartment now, unless he married Suzanne? How could he have his
                            automobilehis valet? Colfax said nothing about  continuing his incomewhy should he? He really owed him
                            nothing. He had been exceedingly well paidbetter paid than he would have
                            been anywhere else.
                        He regretted his fanciful dreams about Blue Seahis silly enthusiasm in
                            tying up all his money in that. Would Mrs. Dale go to Winfield? Would
                            her talk do him any real harm there? Winfield had always been a good
                            friend to him, had manifested a high regard. This charge, this talk of
                            abduction. What a pity it all was. It might change Winfield's
                            attitude, and still why should it? He had women; no wife, however. He
                            hadn't, as Colfax said, planned this thing quite right. That
                            was plain now. His shimmering world of dreams was beginning to fade like
                            an evening sky. It might be that he had been chasing a
                            will-o'-the-wisp, after all. Could this really be possible?
                            Could it be?
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XXII
                        ONE would have thought that this terrific blow would have given Eugene
                            pause in a way, and it did. It frightened him. Mrs. Dale had gone to
                            Colfax in order to persuade him to use his influence to make Eugene
                            behave himself, and, having done so much, she was actually prepared to
                            go further. She was considering some scheme whereby she could blacken
                            Eugene, have his true character become known without in any way
                            involving Suzanne. Having been relentlessly pursued and harried by
                            Eugene, she was now as relentless in her own attitude. She wanted him to
                            let go now, entirely, if she could, not to see Suzanne any more and she
                            went, first to Winfield, and then back to Lenox with the hope of
                            preventing any further communication, or at least action on
                            Suzanne's part, or Eugene's possible presence
                            there.
                        In so far as her visit to Winfield was concerned, it did not amount to so
                            much morally or emotionally in that quarter, for Winfield did not feel
                            that he was called upon to act in the matter. He was not
                            Eugene's guardian, nor yet a public censor of morals. He waived
                            the whole question grandly to one side, though in a way he was glad to
                            know of it, for it gave him an advantage over Eugene. He was sorry for
                            him a littlewhat man would not be? Nevertheless, in his thoughts of
                            reorganizing the Blue Sea Corporation, he did not feel so bad over what
                            might become of Eugene's interests. When the latter approached
                            him, as he did some time afterward, with the idea that he might be able
                            to dispose of his holdings, he saw no way to do it. The company was
                            really not in good shape. More money would have to be put in. All the
                            treasury stock would have to be quickly disposed of, or a reorganization
                            would have to be effected. The best that could be promised under these
                            circumstances was that Eugene's holdings might be exchanged for
                            a fraction of their value in a new issue by a new group of directors. So
                            Eugene saw the end of his dreams in that direction looming up quite
                            clearly.
                        When he saw what Mrs. Dale had done, he saw also that it was necessary to
                            communicate the situation clearly to Suzanne. The whole thing pulled him
                            up short, and he began to wonder what was to become of him. With his
                            twenty-five thousand a year in salary cut off, his prospect of an
                            independent fortune in  Blue Sea
                            annihilated, the old life closed to him for want of cash, for who can go
                            about in society without money? he saw that he was in danger of complete
                            social and commercial extinction. If by any chance a discussion of the
                            moral relation between him and Suzanne arose, his unconscionable
                            attitude toward Angela, if White heard of it for instance, what would
                            become of him? The latter would spread the fact far and wide. It would
                            be the talk of the town, in the publishing world at least. It would
                            close every publishing house in the city to him. He did not believe
                            Colfax would talk. He fancied that Mrs. Dale had not, after all, spoken
                            to Winfield, but if she had, how much further would it go? Would White
                            hear of it through Colfax? Would he keep it a secret if he knew? Never!
                            The folly of what he had been doing began to dawn upon him dimly. What
                            was it that he had been doing? He felt like a man who had been cast into
                            a deep sleep by a powerful opiate and was now slowly waking to a dim
                            wondering sense of where he was. He was in New York. He had no position.
                            He had little ready moneyperhaps five or six thousand all told. He had
                            the love of Suzanne, but her mother was still fighting him, and he had
                            Angela on his hands, undivorced. How was he to arrange things now? How
                            could he think of going back to her? Never!
                        He sat down and composed the following letter to Suzanne, which he
                            thought would make clear to her just how things stood and give her an
                            opportunity to retract if she wished, for he thought he owed that much
                            to her now: 
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            "FLOWER FACE:
                                        
                                        I had a talk with Mr. Colfax this morning and what I
                                            feared might happen has happened. Your mother, instead
                                            of going to Boston as you thought, came to New York and
                                            saw him and, I fancy, my friend Winfield, too. She
                                            cannot do me any harm in that direction, for my
                                            relationship with that company does not depend on a
                                            salary, or a fixed income of any kind, but she has done
                                            me infinite harm here. Frankly, I have lost my position.
                                            I do not believe that would have come about except for
                                            other pressure with which she had nothing to do, but her
                                            charges and complaints, coming on top of opposition here
                                            on the part of someone else, has done what she
                                            couldn't have done alone. Flower Face, do you
                                            know what that means? I told you once that I had tied up
                                            all my spare cash in Blue Sea, which I hoped would come
                                            to so much. It may, but the cutting off my salary here
                                            means great changes for me there, unless I can make some
                                            other business engagement immediately. I shall probably
                                            have to give up my apartment in Riverside Drive and my
                                            automobile, and in other ways trim my sails to meet the
                                            bad weather. It means that if you come to me, We should
                                            have to live on what I can earn as an artist unless I
                                            should decide and be able to find something else. When I
                                            came to  Canada for you, I
                                            had some such idea in mind, but since this thing has
                                            actually happened, you may think differently. If nothing
                                            happens to my Blue Sea investment, there may be an
                                            independent fortune some day in that. I can't
                                            tell, but that is a long way off, and meanwhile, there
                                            is only this, and I don't know what else your
                                            mother may do to my reputation. She appears to be in a
                                            very savage frame of mind. You heard what she said at
                                            While-a-Way. She has evidently gone back on that
                                            completely.
                                        "Flower Face, I lay this all before you so that
                                            you may see how things are. If you come to me it may be
                                            in the face of a faded reputation. You must realize that
                                            there is a great difference between Eugene Witla,
                                            Managing Publisher of the United Magazines Corporation,
                                            and Eugene Witla, Artist. I have been very reckless and
                                            defiantin my love for you. Because you are so lovelythe
                                            most perfect thing that I have ever known, I have laid
                                            all on the altar of my affection. I would do it again,
                                            gladlya thousand times. Before you came, my life was a
                                            gloomy thing. I thought I was living, but I knew in my
                                            heart that it was all a dusty shella lie. Then you came,
                                            and oh, how I have lived! The nights, the days of
                                            beautiful fancy. Shall I ever forget White Wood, or Blue
                                            Sea, or Briarcliff, or that wonderful first day at South
                                            Beach? Little girl, our ways have been the ways of
                                            perfectness and peace. This has been an intensely
                                            desperate thing to do, but for my sake, I am not sorry.
                                            I have been dreaming a wonderfully sweet and perfect
                                            dream. It may be when you know all and see how things
                                            stand, and stop and think, as I now ask you to do, you
                                            may be sorry and want to change your mind.
                                            Don't hesitate to do so if you feel that way.
                                            You know I told you to think calmly long ago before you
                                            told your mother. This is a bold, original thing we have
                                            been planning. It is not to be expected that the world
                                            would see it as we have. It is quite to be expected that
                                            trouble would follow in the wake of it, but it seemed
                                            possible to me, and still seems so. If you want to come
                                            to me, say so. If you want to come to me, say so. If you
                                            want me to come to you, speak the word. We will go to
                                            England or Italy, and I will try my hand at painting
                                            again. I can do that I am sure. Or, we can stay here,
                                            and I can see if some engagement cannot be had.
                                        "You want to remember, though, that your mother
                                            may not have finished fighting. She may go to much
                                            greater lengths than she has gone. You thought you might
                                            control her, but it seems not. I thought we had won in
                                            Canada, but it appears not. If she attempts to restrain
                                            you from using your share of your father's
                                            estate, she may be able to cause you trouble there. If
                                            she attempts to incarcerate you, she might be
                                            successful. I wish I could talk to you. Can't I
                                            see you at Lenox? Are you coming home next week? We
                                            ought to think and plan and act now if at all.
                                            Don't let any consideration for me stand in
                                            your way, though, if you are doubtful. Remember that
                                            conditions are different now. Your whole future hangs on
                                            your decision. I should have talked this way long ago,
                                            perhaps, but I did not think your mother could do what
                                            she has succeeded in doing. I did not think my financial
                                            standing would play any part in it.
                                        "Flower Face, this is the day of real trial for
                                            me. I am unhappy, but only at the possible prospect of
                                            losing you. Nothing of all these other things really
                                            matters. With you, everything would be perfect, whatever
                                            my condition might be. Without you, it will be as dark
                                            as night. The decision is in your hands and you must
                                            act. Whatever you decide, that I will do.
                                            Don't, as I say, let consideration for me  stand in the way. You are
                                            young. You have a social career before you. After all, I
                                            am twice your age. I talk thus sanely because if you
                                            come to me now, I want you to understand clearly how you
                                            come.
                                        "Oh, I wonder sometimes if you really
                                            understand. I wonder if I have been dreaming a dream.
                                            You are so beautiful. You have been such an inspiration
                                            to me. Has this been a lurea will-o'-the wisp?
                                            I wonder. I wonder. And yet I love you, love you, love
                                            you. A thousand kisses, Divine Fire, and I wait for your
                                            word.
                                        
                                            "EUGENE."
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        Suzanne read this letter at Lenox, and for the first time in her life she
                            began to think and ponder seriously. What had she been doing? What was
                            Eugene doing? This dnouement frightened her. Her mother was more
                            purposeful than she imagined. To think of her going to Colfaxof her
                            lying and turning so in her moods. She had not thought this possible of
                            her mother. Had not thought it possible that Eugene could lose his
                            position. He had always seemed so powerful to her; so much a law unto
                            himself. Once when they were out in an automobile together, he had asked
                            her why she loved him, and she said, "because you are a genius
                            and can do anything you please."
                        "Oh, no," he answered, "nothing like that. I
                            can't really do very much of anything. You just have an
                            exaggerated notion of me."
                        "Oh, no, I haven't," she replied.
                            "You can paint, and you can write"she was judging by
                            some of the booklets about Blue Sea and verses about herself and
                            clippings of articles done in his old Chicago newspaper days, which he
                            showed her once in a scrapbook in his apartment"and you can run
                            that office, and you were an advertising manager and an art
                            director."
                        She lifted up her face and looked into his eyes admiringly.
                        "My, what a list of accomplishments!" he replied.
                            "Well whom the gods would destroy they first make
                            mad." He kissed her.
                        "And you love so beautifully," she added by way of
                            climax.
                        Since then, she had thought of this often, but now, somehow, it received
                            a severe setback. He was not quite so powerful. He could not prevent her
                            mother from doing this, and could she really conquer her mother?
                            Whatever Suzanne might think of her deceit, she was moving Heaven and
                            earth to prevent this. Was she wholly wrong? After that climacteric
                            night at St. Jacques, when somehow the expected did not happen, Suzanne
                            had been thinking. Did she really want to leave home, and go with
                            Eugene? Did she want to fight her mother in regard to her estate? She
                            might have to do that. Her original  idea
                            had been that she and Eugene would meet in some lovely studio, and that
                            she would keep her own home, and he would have his. It was something
                            very different, this talk of poverty, and not having an automobile, and
                            being far away from home. Still she loved him. Maybe she could force her
                            mother to terms yet.
                        There were more struggles in the two or three succeeding days, in which
                            the guardian of the estateMr. Herbert Pitcairn, of the Marquardt Trust
                            Company, and, once more, Dr. Woolley, were called in to argue with her.
                            Suzanne, unable to make up her mind, listened to her mother's
                            insidious plea, that if she would wait a year, and then say she really
                            wanted him, she could have him; listened to Mr. Pitcairn tell her mother
                            that he believed any court would on application adjudge her incompetent
                            and tie up her estate; heard Dr. Woolley say in her presence to her
                            mother that he did not deem a commission in lunacy advisable, but if her
                            mother insisted, no doubt a judge would adjudge her insane, if no more
                            than to prevent this unhallowed consummation. Suzanne became frightened.
                            Her iron nerve, after Eugene's letter, was weakening. She was
                            terribly incensed against her mother, but she began now for the first
                            time to think what her friends would think. Supposing her mother did
                            lock her up. Where would they think she was? All these days and weeks of
                            strain, which had worn her mother threadbare had told something on her
                            own strength, or rather nerve. It was too intense, and she began to
                            wonder whether they had not better do as Eugene suggested, and wait a
                            little while. He had agreed up at St. Jacques to wait, if she were
                            willing. Only the provision was that they were to see each other. Now
                            her mother had changed front again, pleading danger, undue influence,
                            that she ought to have at least a year of her old kind of life
                            undisturbed to see whether she really cared.
                        "How can you tell?" she insisted to Suzanne, in spite
                            of the girl's desire not to talk. "You have been swept
                            into this, and you haven't given yourself time to think. A year
                            won't hurt. What harm will it do you or him?"
                        "But, mama," asked Suzanne over and over at different
                            times, and different places, "why did you go and tell Mr.
                            Colfax? What a mean, cruel thing that was to do!"
                        "Because I think he needs something like that to make him pause
                            and think. He isn't going to starve. He is a man of talent. He
                            needs something like that to bring him to his senses. Mr. Colfax
                            hasn't discharged him. He told me he wouldn't. He  said he would make him take a year off
                            and think about it, and that's just what he has done. It
                            won't hurt him. I don't care if it does. Look at the
                            way he has made me suffer."
                        She felt exceedingly bitter toward Eugene, and was rejoicing that at last
                            she was beginning to have her innings.
                        "Mama," said Suzanne, "I am never going to
                            forgive you for this. You are acting horriblyI will wait, but it will
                            come to the same thing in the end. I am going to have him."
                        "I don't care what you do after a year," said
                            Mrs. Dale cheerfully and subtly. "If you will just wait that
                            long and give yourself time to think and still want to marry him, you
                            can do so. He can probably get a divorce in that time, anyhow."
                            She did not mean what she was saying, but any argument was good for the
                            situation, if it delayed matters.
                        "But I don't know that I want to marry him,"
                            insisted Suzanne, doggedly, harking back to her original idea.
                            "That isn't my theory of it."
                        "Oh, well," replied Mrs. Dale complaisantly,
                            "you will know better what to think of that after a year. I
                            don't want to coerce you, but I'm not going to have
                            our home and happiness broken up in this way without turning a hand, and
                            without your stopping to think about it. You owe it to meto all these
                            years I have cared for you, to show me some consideration. A year
                            won't hurt you. It won't hurt him. You will find out
                            then whether he really loves you or not. This may just be a passing
                            fancy. He has had other women before you. He may have others after you.
                            He may go back to Mrs. Witla. It doesn't make any difference
                            what he tells you. You ought to test him before you break up his home
                            and mine. If he really loves you, he will agree readily enough. Do this
                            for me, Suzanne, and I will never cross your path any more. If you will
                            wait a year you can do anything you choose. I can only hope you
                            won't go to him without going as his wife, but if you insist, I
                            will hush the matter up as best I can. Write to him and tell him that
                            you have decided that you both ought to wait a year. You don't
                            need to see him any more. It will just stir things all up afresh. If you
                            don't see him, but just write, it will be better for him, too.
                            He won't feel so badly as he will if you see him again and go
                            all over the ground once more."
                        Mrs. Dale was terribly afraid of Eugene's influence, but she
                            could not accomplish this.
                        "I won't do that," said Suzanne, "I
                            won't do it. I'm going back to New York,
                            that's all there is about it!" Mrs. Dale finally
                            yielded that much. She had to.
                        
                        There was a letter from Suzanne after three days, saying that she
                            couldn't answer his letter in full, but that she was coming
                            back to New York and would see him, and subsequently a meeting between
                            Suzanne and Eugene at Daleview in her mother's presenceDr.
                            Woolley and Mr. Pitcairn were in another part of the house at the timein
                            which the proposals were gone over anew.
                        Eugene had motored down after Mrs. Dale's demands had been put
                            before him in the gloomiest and yet more feverish frame of mind in which
                            he had ever been,gloomy because of heavy forebodings of evil and his own
                            dark financial conditionwhile inspirited at other moments by thoughts of
                            some splendid, eager revolt on the part of Suzanne, of her rushing to
                            him, defying all, declaring herself violently and convincingly, and so
                            coming off a victor with him. His faith in her love was still so
                            great.
                        The night was one of those cold October ones with a steely sky and a
                            sickle moon, harbinger of frost, newly seen in the west, and pointed
                            stars thickening overhead. As he sat in his car on the Staten Island
                            ferry boat, he could see a long line of southward bound ducks, homing to
                            those reedy marshes which Bryant had in mind when he wrote "To
                            a Waterfowl." They were honking as they went, their faint
                            "quacks" coming back on the thin air and making him
                            feel desperately lonely and bereft. When he reached Daleview, speeding
                            past October trees, and entered the great drawing-room where a fire was
                            blazing and where once in spring he had danced with Suzanne, his heart
                            leaped up, for he was to see her, and the mere sight of her was as a
                            tonic to his fevered bodya cool drink to a thirsting man.
                        Mrs. Dale stared at Eugene defiantly when he came, but Suzanne welcomed
                            him to her embrace. "Oh!" she exclaimed, holding him
                            close for a few moments and breathing feverishly. There was complete
                            silence for a time.
                        "Mama insists, Eugene," she said after a time,
                            "that we ought to wait a year, and I think since there is such
                            a fuss about it, that perhaps it might be just as well. We may have been
                            just a little hasty, don't you think? I have told mama what I
                            think about her action in going to Mr. Colfax, but she doesn't
                            seem to care. She is threatening now to have me adjudged insane. A year
                            won't make any real difference since I am coming to you,
                            anyhow, will it? But I thought I ought to tell you this in person, to
                            ask you about it"she paused, looking into his eyes.
                        "I thought we settled all this up in St. Jacques?" said
                            Eugene,  turning to Mrs. Dale, but
                            experiencing a sinking sensation of fear.
                        "We did, all except the matter of not seeing her. I think it is
                            highly inadvisable that you two should be together. It isn't
                            possible the way things stand. People will talk. Your wife's
                            condition has to be adjusted. You can't be running around with
                            her and a child coming to you. I want Suzanne to go away for a year
                            where she can be calm and think it all out, and I want you to let her.
                            If she still insists that she wants you after that, and will not listen
                            to the logic of the situation in regard to marriage, then I propose to
                            wash my hands of the whole thing. She may have her inheritance. She may
                            have you if she wants you. If you have come to your senses by that time,
                            as I hope you will have, you will get a divorce, or go back to Mrs.
                            Witla, or do whatever you do in a sensible way."
                        She did not want to incense Eugene here, but she was very bitter.
                        Eugene merely frowned.
                        "Is this your decision, Suzanne, too?" he asked
                            wearily.
                        "I think mama is terrible, Eugene," replied Suzanne
                            evasively, or perhaps as a reply to her mother. "You and I have
                            planned our lives, and we will work them out. We have been a little
                            selfish, now that I think of it. I think a year won't do any
                            harm, perhaps, if it will stop all this fussing. I can wait, if you
                            can."
                        An inexpressible sense of despair fell upon Eugene at the sound of this,
                            a sadness so deep that he could scarcely speak. He could not believe
                            that it was really Suzanne who was saying that to him. Willing to wait a
                            year! She who had declared so defiantly that she would not. It would do
                            no harm? To think that life, fate, her mother were triumphing over him
                            in this fashion, after all. What then was the significance of the
                            blackbearded men he had seen so often of late? Why had he been finding
                            horseshoes? Was fate such a liar? Did life in its dark, subtle chambers
                            lay lures and traps for men? His position gone, his Blue Sea venture
                            involved in an indefinite delay out of which might come nothing, Suzanne
                            going for a whole year, perhaps for ever, most likely so, for what could
                            not her mother do with her in a whole year, having her alone? Angela
                            alienateda child approaching. What a climax!
                        "Is this really your decision, Suzanne?" he asked,
                            sadly, a mist of woe clouding his whole being.
                        "I think it ought to be, perhaps, Eugene," she replied,
                            still  evasively. "It's
                            very trying. I will be faithful to you, though. I promise you that I
                            will not change. Don't you think we can wait a year? We can,
                            can't we?"
                        "A whole year without seeing you, Suzanne?"
                        "Yes, it will pass, Eugene."
                        "A whole year?"
                        "Yes, Eugene."
                        "I have nothing more to say, Mrs. Dale," he said,
                            turning to her mother solemnly, a sombre, gloomy light in his eye, his
                            heart hardening towards Suzanne for the moment. To think she should
                            treat him sothrow him down, as he phrased it. Well, such was life.
                            "You win," he added. "It has been a terrible
                            experience for me. A terrible passion. I love this girl. I love her with
                            my whole heart. Sometimes I have vaguely suspected that she might not
                            know."
                        He turned to Suzanne, and for the first time he thought that he did not
                            see there that true understanding which he had fancied had been there
                            all the time. Could fate have been lying to him also in this? Was he
                            mistaken in this, and had he been following a phantom lure of beauty?
                            Was Suzanne but another trap to drag him down to his old nothingness?
                            God! The prediction of the Astrologer of a second period of defeat after
                            seven or eight years came back.
                        "Oh, Suzanne!" he said, simply and unconsciously
                            dramatic. "Do you really love me?"
                        "Yes, Eugene," she replied.
                        "Really?"
                        "Yes."
                        He held out his arms and she came, but for the life of him he could not
                            dispel this terrible doubt. It took the joy out of his kissas if he had
                            been dreaming a dream of something perfect in his arms and had awaked to
                            find it nothingas if life had sent him a Judas in the shape of a girl to
                            betray him.
                        "Do let us end this, Mr. Witla," said Mrs. Dale coldly,
                            "there is nothing to be gained by delaying. Let us end it for a
                            year, and then talk."
                        "Oh, Suzanne," he continued, as mournful as a passing
                            bell, "come to the door with me."
                        "No, the servants are there," put in Mrs. Dale.
                            "Please make your farewells here."
                        "Mama," said Suzanne angrily and defiantly, moved by
                            the pity of it, "I won't have you talk this way. Leave
                            the room, or I shall go to the door with him and further. Leave us,
                            please."
                        
                        Mrs. Dale went out.
                        "Oh, Flower Face," said Eugene pathetically,
                            "I can't believe it. I can't. I
                            can't! This has been managed wrong. I should have taken you
                            long ago. So it is to end this way. A year, a whole year, and how much
                            longer?"
                        "Only a year," she insisted. "Only a year,
                            believe me, can't you? I won't change, I
                            won't!"
                        He shook his head, and Suzanne as before took his face in her hands. She
                            kissed his cheeks, his lips, his hair.
                        "Believe me, Eugene. I seem cold. You don't know what I
                            have gone through. It is nothing but trouble everywhere. Let us wait a
                            year. I promise you I will come to you. I swear. One year.
                            Can't we wait one year?"
                        "A year," he said. "A year. I can't
                            believe it. Where will we all be in a year? Oh, Flower Face, Myrtle
                            Bloom, Divine Fire. I can't stand this. I can't.
                            It's too much. I'm the one who is paying now. Yes, I
                            pay."
                        He took her face and looked at it, all its soft, enticing features, her
                            eyes, her lips, her cheeks, her hair.
                        "I thought, I thought," he murmured.
                        Suzanne only stroked the back of his head with her hands. "Well,
                            if I must, I must," he said.
                        He turned away, turned back to embrace her, turned again and then,
                            without looking back, walked out into the hall. Mrs. Dale was there
                            waiting.
                        "Good night, Mrs. Dale," he said gloomily.
                        "Good night, Mr. Witla," she replied frigidly, but with
                            a sense of something tragic in her victory at that.
                        He took his hat and walked out.
                        Outside the bright October stars were in evidence by millions. The Bay
                            and Harbor of New York were as wonderfully lit as on that night when
                            Suzanne came to him after the evening at Fort Wadsworth on her own
                            porch. He recalled the spring odours, the wonderful feel of youth and
                            lovethe hope that was springing then. Now, it was five or six months
                            later, and all that romance was gone. Suzanne, sweet voice, accomplished
                            shape, light whisper, delicate touch. Gone. All gone
                        
                            "Faded the flower and all its budded charms,
                            Faded the sight of beauty from my eyes,
                            Faded the shape of beauty from my arms,
                            Faded the voice, warmth, whiteness, paradise."
                        
                        Gone were those bright days in which they had ridden together, dined
                            together, walked in sylvan places beside their car.  A little way from here he first played tennis with her. A
                            little way from here he had come so often to meet her clandestinely. Now
                            she was gonegone.
                        He had come in his car, but he really did not want it. Life was accursed.
                            His own was a failure. To think that all his fine dreams should crumble
                            this way. Shortly he would have no car, no home on Riverside Drive, no
                            position, no anything.
                        "God, I can't stand this!" he exclaimed, and a
                            little later"By God, I can't! I
                            can't!"
                        He dismissed his car at the Battery, telling his chauffeur to take it to
                            the garage, and walking gloomily through all the tall dark streets of
                            lower New York. Here was Broadway where he had often been with Colfax
                            and Winfield. Here was this great world of finance around Wall Street in
                            which he had vaguely hoped to shine. Now these buildings were high and
                            silentreceding from him in a way. Overhead were the clear bright stars,
                            cool and refreshing, but without meaning to him now. How was he to
                            settle it? How adjust it? A year! She would never come backnever! It was
                            all gone. A bright cloud faded. A mirage dissolved into its native
                            nothingness. Position, distinction, love, homewhere were they? Yet a
                            little while and all these things would be as though they had never
                            been. Hell! Damn! Curse the brooding fates that could thus plot to
                            destroy him!
                        Back in her room in Daleview Suzanne had locked herself in. She was not
                            without a growing sense of the tragedy of it. She stared at the floor,
                            recalled his face.
                        "Oh, oh," she said, and for the first time in her life
                            felt as though she could cry from a great heartachebut she could
                            not.
                        And in Riverside Drive was another woman brooding, lonely, despondently,
                            desperately, over the nature of the tragedy that was upon her. How were
                            things to be adjusted? How was she to be saved? Oh! oh! her life, her
                            child! If Eugene could be made to understand! If he could only be made
                            to see!
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XXIII
                        DURING the weeks which followed Colfax's talk with him. and
                            Suzanne's decision, which amounted practically to a dismissal,
                            Eugene tried to wind up his affairs at the United Magazines Corporation,
                            as well as straighten out his relationship with Angela. It was no easy
                            task. Colfax helped him considerably by suggesting that he should say he
                            was going abroad for the company, for the time being, and should make it
                            appear imperative that he go at once. Eugene called in his department
                            heads, and told them what Colfax suggested, but added that his own
                            interests elsewhere, of which they knew, or suspected, were now so
                            involved that he might possibly not return, or only for a little while
                            at best. He put forward an air of great sufficiency and
                            self-satisfaction, considering the difficulties he was encountering, and
                            the thing passed off as a great wonder, but with no suspicion of any
                            immediate misfortune attaching to him. As a matter of fact, it was
                            assumed that he was destined to a much higher estatethe control of his
                            private interests.
                        In his talk with Angela he made it perfectly plain that he was going to
                            leave her. He would not make any pretence about this. She ought to know.
                            He had lost his position; he was not going to Suzanne soon; he wanted
                            her to leave him, or he would leave her. She should go to Wisconsin or
                            Europe or anywhere, for the time being, and leave him to fight this
                            thing out alone. He was not indispensable to her in her condition. There
                            were nurses she could hirematernity hospitals where she could stay. He
                            would be willing to pay for that. He would never live with her any more,
                            if he could help ithe did not want to. The sight of her in the face of
                            his longing for Suzanne would be a wretched commentarya reproach and a
                            sore shame. No, he would leave her and perhaps, possibly, sometime when
                            she obtained more real fighting courage, Suzanne might come to him. She
                            ought to. Angela might die. Yes, brutal as it may seem, he thought this.
                            She might die, and thenand then No thought of the child that might
                            possibly live, even if she died, held him. He could not understand that,
                            could not grasp it as yet. It was a mere abstraction.
                        Eugene took a room in an apartment house in Kingsbridge,  where he was not known for the time
                            being, and where he was not likely to be seen. Then there was witnessed
                            that dreary spectacle of a man whose life has apparently come down in a
                            heap, whose notions, emotions, tendencies and feelings are confused and
                            disappointed by some untoward result. If Eugene had been ten or fifteen
                            years older, the result might have been suicide. A shade of difference
                            in temperament might have resulted in death, murder, anything. As it
                            was, he sat blankly at times among the ruins of his dreams speculating
                            on what Suzanne was doing, on what Angela was doing, on what people were
                            saying and thinking, on how he could gather up the broken pieces of his
                            life and make anything out of them at all.
                        The one saving element in it all was his natural desire to work, which,
                            although it did not manifest itself at first, by degrees later on began
                            to come back. He must do something, if it was not anything more than to
                            try to paint again. He could not be running around looking for a
                            position. There was nothing for him in connection with Blue Sea. He had
                            to work to support Angela, of whom he was now free, if he did not want
                            to be mean; and as he viewed it all in the light of what had happened,
                            he realized that he had been bad enough. She had not been
                            temperamentally suited to him, but she had tried to be. Fundamentally it
                            was not her fault. How was he to work and live and be anything at all
                            from now on?
                        There were long arguments over this situation between him and
                            Angelapleas, tears, a crashing downward of everything which was worth
                            while in life to Angela, and then, in spite of her pathetic situation,
                            separation. Because it was November and the landlord had heard of
                            Eugene's financial straits, or rather reverse of fortune, it
                            was possible to relinquish the lease, which had several years to run,
                            and the apartment was given up. Angela, distraught, scarcely knew which
                            way to turn. It was one of those pitiless, scandalous situations in life
                            which sicken us of humanity. She ran helplessly to Eugene's
                            sister, Myrtle, who first tried to conceal the scandal and tragedy from
                            her husband, but afterward confessed and deliberated as to what should
                            be done. Frank Bangs, who was a practical man, as well as firm believer
                            in Christian Science because of his wife's to him miraculous
                            healing from a tumor several years before, endeavored to apply his
                            understanding of the divine sciencethe omnipresence of good to this
                            situation.
                        "There is no use worrying about it, Myrtle," he said to
                            his wife, who, in spite of her faith, was temporarily shaken and
                            frightened by the calamities which seemingly had overtaken  her brother. "It's
                            another evidence of the workings of mortal mind. Itis real enough in its
                            idea of itself, but nothing in God's grace. It will come out
                            all right, if we think right. Angela can go to a maternity hospital for
                            the time being, or whenever she's ready. We may be able to
                            persuade Eugene to do the right thing."
                        Angela was persuaded to consult a Christian Science practitioner, and
                            Myrtle went to the woman who had cured her and begged her to use her
                            influence, or rather her knowledge of science to effect a rehabilitation
                            for her brother. She was told that this could not be done without his
                            wish, but that she would pray for him. If he could be persuaded to come
                            of his own accord, seeking spiritual guidance or divine aid, it would be
                            a different matter. In spite of his errors, and to her they seemed
                            palpable and terrible enough at present, her faith would not allow her
                            to reproach him, and besides she loved him. He was a strong man, she
                            said, always strange. He and Angela might not have been well mated. But
                            all could be righted in Science. There was a dreary
                            period of packing and storing for Angela, in which she stood about amid
                            the ruins of her previous comfort and distinction and cried over the
                            things that had seemed so lovely to her. Here were all Eugene's
                            things, his paintings, his canes, his pipes, his clothes. She cried over
                            a handsome silk dressing gown in which he had been wont to lounge
                            aboutit smacked so much, curiously, of older and happier days. There
                            were hard, cold and determined conferences also in which some of
                            Angela's old fighting, ruling spirit would come back, but not
                            for long. She was beaten now, and she knew itwrecked. The roar of a cold
                            and threatening sea was in her ears.
                        It should be said here that at one time Suzanne truly imagined she loved
                            Eugene. It must be remembered, however, that she was moved to affection
                            for him by the wonder of a personality that was hypnotic to her. There
                            was something about the personality of Eugene that was subversive of
                            conventionality. He approached, apparently a lamb of conventional
                            feelings and appearances; whereas, inwardly, he was a ravening wolf of
                            indifference to convention. All the organized modes and methods of life
                            were a joke to him. He saw through to something that was not material
                            life at all, but spiritual, or say immaterial, of which all material
                            things were a shadow. What did the great forces of life care whether
                            this system which was maintained here with so much show and fuss was
                            really maintained at all or not? How could they care? He once stood in a
                            morgue and saw human bodies apparently dissolving into a kind of
                            chemical mush.  and he had said to himself
                            then how ridiculous it was to assume that life meant anything much to
                            the forces which were doing these things. Great chemical and physical
                            forces were at work, which permitted, accidentally, perhaps, some little
                            shadow-play, which would soon pass. But, oh, its presencehow sweet it
                            was!
                        Naturally Suzanne was cast down for the time being, for she was capable
                            of suffering just as Eugene was. But having given her word to wait, she
                            decided to stick to that, although she had not stuck to her other. She
                            was between nineteen and twenty nowEugene was nearing forty. Life could
                            still soothe her in spite of herself. In Eugene's case it could
                            only hurt the more. Mrs. Dale went abroad with Suzanne and the other
                            children, visiting with people who could not possibly have heard, or
                            ever would except in a vague, uncertain way for that matter. If it
                            became evident, as she thought it might, that there was to be a scandal,
                            Mrs. Dale proposed to say that Eugene had attempted to establish an
                            insidious hold on her child in defiance of reason and honor, and that
                            she had promptly broken it up, shielding Suzanne, almost without the
                            latter's knowledge. It was plausible enough.
                        What was he to do now? how live? was his constant thought. Go into a wee,
                            small apartment in some back street with Angela, where he and she, if he
                            decided to stay with her, could find a pretty outlook for a little money
                            and live? Never. Admit that he had lost Suzanne for a year at least, if
                            not permanently, in this suddenly brusque way? Impossible. Go and
                            confess that he had made a mistake, which he still did not feel to be
                            true? or that he was sorry and would like to patch things up as before?
                            Never. He was not sorry. He did not propose to live with Angela in the
                            old way any more. He was sick of her, or rather of that atmosphere of
                            repression and convention in which he had spent so many years. He was
                            sick of the idea of having a child thrust on him against his will. He
                            would not do it. She had no business to put herself in this position. He
                            would die first. His insurance was paid up to date. He had carried
                            during the last five years a policy for something over eighteen thousand
                            in her favor, and if he died she would get that. He wished he might. It
                            would be some atonement for the hard knocks which fate had recently
                            given her, but he did not wish to live with her any more. Never, never,
                            child or no child. Go back to the apartment after this nighthow could
                            he? If he did, he must pretend that nothing had happenedat least,
                            nothing untoward between him and Suzanne. 
                            She might come back. Might! Might! Ah, the mockery of itto leave him in
                            this way when she really could have come to himshould haveoh, the
                            bitterness of this thrust of fate!
                        There was a day when the furniture was sent away and Angela went to live
                            with Myrtle for the time being. There was another tearful hour when she
                            left New York to visit her sister Marietta at Racine, where they now
                            were, intending to tell her before she came away, as a profound secret,
                            the terrible tragedy which had overtaken her. Eugene went to the train
                            with her, but with no desire to be there. Angela's one thought,
                            in all this, was that somehow time would effect a reconciliation. If she
                            could just wait long enough; if she could keep her peace and live and
                            not die, and not give him a divorce, he might eventually recover his
                            sanity and come to think of her as at least worth living with. The child
                            might do it, its coming would be something that would affect him surely.
                            He was bound to see her through it. She told herself she was willing and
                            delighted to go through this ordeal, if only it brought him back to her.
                            This childwhat a reception it was to receive, unwanted, dishonored
                            before its arrival, ignored; if by any chance she should die, what would
                            he do about it? Surely he would not desert it. Already in her nervous,
                            melancholy way, she was yearning toward it.
                        "Tell me," she said to Eugene one day, when they were
                            alternately quarreling and planning, "if the baby comes, and
                            Iand Idie, you won't absolutely desert it? You'll take
                            it, won't you?"
                        "I'll take it," he replied.
                            "Don't worry. I'm not an absolute dog. I
                            didn't want it. It's a trick on your part, but
                            I'll take it. I don't want you to die. You know
                            that."
                        Angela thought if she lived that she would be willing to go through a
                            period of poverty and depression with him again, if only she could live
                            to see him sane and moral and even semi-successful. The baby might do
                            it. He had never had a child. And much as he disliked the idea now,
                            still, when it was here he might change his mind. If only she could get
                            through that ordeal. She was so oldher muscles so set. Meanwhile she
                            consulted a lawyer, a doctor, a fortune teller, an astrologer and the
                            Christian Science practitioner to whom Myrtle had recommended her. It
                            was an aimless, ridiculous combination, but she was badly torn up, and
                            any port seemed worth while in this storm.
                        The doctor told her that her muscles were rather set, but with the
                            regimen he prescribed, he was satisfied she would be  all right. The astrologer told her that
                            she and Eugene were fated for this storm by the starsEugene,
                            particularly, and that he might recover, in which case, he would be
                            successful again in a measure. As for herself, he shook his head. Yes,
                            she would be all right. He was lying. The fortune teller laid the cards
                            to see if Eugene would ever marry Suzanne, and Angela was momentarily
                            gratified to learn that she would never enter his lifethis from a
                            semi-cadaverous, but richly dressed and bejeweled lady whose ante-room
                            was filled with women whose troubles were of the heart, the loss of
                            money, the enmity of rivals, or the dangers of childbirth. The Christian
                            Science practitioner declared all to be divine mindomnipotent,
                            omnipresent, omniscient good, and that evil could not exist in itonly
                            the illusion of it. "It is real enough to those who give it
                            their faith and believe," said the counselor, "but
                            without substance or meaning to those who know themselves to be a
                            perfect, indestructible reflection of an idea in God. God is a
                            principle. When the nature of that principle is realized and yourself as
                            a part of it, evil falls away as the troublesome dream that it is. It
                            has no reality." She assured her that no evil could befall her
                            in the true understanding of Science. God is love.
                        The lawyer told her, after listening to a heated story of
                            Eugene's misconduct, that under the laws of the State of New
                            York, in which these misdeeds were committed, she was not entitled to
                            anything more than a very small fraction of her husband's
                            estate, if he had any. Two years was the shortest time in which a
                            divorce could be secured. He would advise her to sue if she could
                            establish a suitable condition of affluence on Eugene's part,
                            not otherwise. Then he charged her twentyfive dollars for this
                            advice.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XXIV
                        TO those who have followed a routine or system of living in this worldwho
                            have, by slow degrees and persistent effort, built up a series of
                            habits, tastes, refinements, emotions and methods of conduct, and have,
                            in addition, achieved a certain distinction and position, so that they
                            have said to one "Go!" and he goes, and to another
                            "Come!" and he comes, who have enjoyed without stint
                            or reserve, let or hindrance, those joys of perfect freedom of action,
                            and that ease and deliberation which comes with the presence of
                            comparative wealth, social position, and comforts, the narrowing that
                            comes with the lack of means, the fear of public opinion, or the shame
                            of public disclosure, is one of the most pathetic, discouraging and
                            terrifying things that can be imagined. These are the hours that try
                            men's souls. The man who sits in a seat of the mighty and
                            observes a world that is ruled by a superior power, a superior force of
                            which he by some miraculous generosity of fate has been chosen
                            apparently as a glittering instrument, has no conception of the feelings
                            of the man who, cast out of his dignities and emoluments, sits in the
                            dark places of the world among the ashes of his splendor and meditates
                            upon the glory of his bygone days. There is a pathos here which passes
                            the conception of the average man. The prophets of the Old Testament
                            discerned it clearly enough, for they were forever pronouncing the fate
                            of those whose follies were in opposition to the course of righteousness
                            and who were made examples of by a beneficent and yet awful power.
                            "Thus saith the Lord: Because thou hast lifted thyself up
                            against the God of Heaven, and they have brought the vessels of His
                            house before thee, and thou and thy Lords, thy wives and concubines,
                            have drank wine in them, and thou hast praised the gods of silver and
                            gold, of brass, iron, wood, and stone. . . . God hath numbered thy
                            Kingdom and finished it. Thou art weighed in the balance and found
                            wanting; thy Kingdom is divided and given to the Medes and the
                            Persians."
                        Eugene was in a minor way an exemplification of this seeming course of
                            righteousness. His Kingdom, small as it was, was truly at an end. Our
                            social life is so organized, so closely knit upon a warp of instinct,
                            that we almost always instinctively flee that which does not accord with
                            custom, usage, preconceived notions and tendenciesthose various things
                            which we in our  littleness of vision
                            conceive to be dominant. Who does not run from the man who may because
                            of his deeds be condemned of that portion of the public which we chance
                            to respect? Walk he ever so proudly, carry himself with what
                            circumspectness he may, at the first breath of suspicion all are
                            offfriends, relations, business acquaintances, the whole social fabric
                            in toto. "Unclean!" is the cry. "Unclean!
                            Unclean!" And it does not matter how inwardly shabby we may be,
                            what whited sepulchres shining to the sun, we run quickly. It seems a
                            tribute to that providence which shapes our ends, which continues
                            perfect in tendency however vilely we may overlay its brightness with
                            the rust of our mortal corruption, however imitative we may be.
                        Angela had gone home by now to see her father, who was now quite old and
                            feeble, and also down to Alexandria to see Eugene's mother, who
                            was also badly deteriorated in health.
                        "I keep hoping against hope that your attitude will change
                            toward me," wrote Angela. "Let me hear from you if you
                            will from time to time. It can't make any difference in your
                            course. A word won't hurt, and I am so lonely. Oh, Eugene, if I
                            could only dieif I only could!" No word as to the true state of
                            things was given at either place. Angela pretended that Eugene had long
                            been sick of his commercial career and was, owing to untoward conditions
                            in the Colfax Company, glad to return to his art for a period. He might
                            come home, but he was very busy. So she lied. But she wrote Myrtle fully
                            of her hopes and, more particularly, her fears.
                        There were a number of conferences between Eugene and Myrtle, for the
                            latter, because of their early companionship, was very fond of him. His
                            traits, the innocent ones, were as sweet to her as when they were boy
                            and girl together. She sought him out in his lonely room at
                            Kingsbridge.
                        "Why don't you come and stay with us, Eugene?"
                            she pleaded. "We have a comfortable apartment. You can have
                            that big room next to ours. It has a nice view. Frank likes you. We have
                            listened to Angela, and I think you are wrong, but you are my brother,
                            and I want you to come. Everything is coming out right. God will
                            straighten it out. Frank and I are praying for you. There is no evil,
                            you know, according to the way we think. Now"and she smiled her
                            old-time girlish smile"don't stay up here alone.
                            Wouldn't you rather be with me?"
                        "Oh, I'd like to be there well enough, Myrtle, but I
                            can't do it now. I don't want to. I have to think. I
                            want to be alone.  I haven't
                            settled what I want to do. I think I will try my hand at some pictures.
                            I have a little money and all the time I want now. I see there are some
                            nice houses over there on the hill that might have a room with a north
                            window that would serve as a studio. I want to think this thing out
                            first. I don't know what I'll do."
                        He had now that new pain in his groin, which had come to him first when
                            her mother first carried Suzanne off to Canada and he was afraid that he
                            should never see her any more. It was a real pain, sharp, physical, like
                            a cut with a knife. He wondered how it was that it could be physical and
                            down there. His eyes hurt him and his finger tips. Wasn't that
                            queer, too?
                        "Why don't you go and see a Christian Science
                            practitioner?" asked Myrtle. "It won't do you
                            any harm. You don't need to believe. Let me get you the book
                            and you can read it. See if you don't think there is something
                            in it. There you go smiling sarcastically, but, Eugene, I can't
                            tell you what it hasn't done for us. It's done
                            everythingthat's just all. I'm a different person from
                            what I was five years ago, and so is Frank, You know how sick I
                            was?"
                        "Yes, I know."
                        "Why don't you go and see Mrs. Johns? You
                            needn't tell her anything unless you want to. She has performed
                            some perfectly wonderful cures."
                        "What can Mrs. Johns do for me?" asked Eugene bitterly,
                            his lip set in an ironic mould. "Cure me of gloom? Make my
                            heart cease to ache? What's the use of talking? I ought to quit
                            the whole thing." He stared at the floor.
                        "She can't, but God can. Oh, Eugene, I know how you
                            feel! Please go. It can't do you any harm. I'll bring
                            you the book tomorrow. Will you read it if I bring it to
                            you?"
                        "No."
                        "Oh, Eugene, please for my sake."
                        "What good will it do? I don't believe in it. I
                            can't. I'm too intelligent to take any stock in that
                            rot."
                        "Eugene, how you talk! You'll change your mind some
                            time. I know how you think. But read it anyhow. Will you please? Promise
                            me you will. I shouldn't ask. It isn't the way, but I
                            want you to look into it. Go and see Mrs. Johns."
                        Eugene refused. Of asinine things this seemed the silliest. Christian
                            Science! Christian rot! He knew what to do. His conscience was dictating
                            that he give up Suzanne and return to Angela in her hour of needto his
                            coming child, for the time being anyhow, but this awful lure of beauty,
                            of personality, of  lovehow it tugged at
                            his soul! Oh, those days with Suzanne in the pretty watering and dining
                            places about New York, those hours of bliss when she looked so
                            beautiful! How could he get over that? How give up the memory? She was
                            so sweet. Her beauty so rare. Every thought of her hurt. It hurt so
                            badly that most of the time he dared not thinkmust, perforce, walk or
                            work or stir restlessly about agonized for fear he should think too
                            much. Oh, life; oh, hell!
                        The intrusion of Christian Science into his purview just now was due, of
                            course, to the belief in and enthusiasm for that religious idea on the
                            part of Myrtle and her husband. As at Lourdes and St. Anne de Beau Pr
                            and other miracle-working centres, where hope and desire and religious
                            enthusiasm for the efficacious intervention of a superior and
                            non-malicious force intervenes, there had occurred in her case an actual
                            cure from a very difficult and compliated physical ailment. She had been
                            suffering from a tumor, nervous insomnia, indigestion, constipation and
                            a host of allied ills, which had apparently refused to yield to ordinary
                            medical treatment. She was in a very bad way mentally and physically at
                            the time the Christian Science textbook, "Science and Health,
                            with Key to the Scriptures," by Mrs. Eddy, was put into her
                            hands. While attempting to read it in a hopeless, helpless spirit, she
                            was instantly curedthat is, the idea that she was well took possession
                            of her, and not long after she really was so. She threw all her
                            medicines, of which there was quite a store, into the garbage pail,
                            eschewed doctors, began to read the Christian Science literature, and
                            attend the Christian Science church nearest her apartment, and was soon
                            involved in its subtle metaphysical interpretation of mortal life. Into
                            this faith, her husband, who loved her very much, had followed, for what
                            was good enough for her and would cure her was good enough for him. He
                            soon seized on its spiritual significance with great vigor and became,
                            if anything, a better exponent and interpreter of the significant
                            thought than was she herself.
                        Those who know anything of Christian Science know that its main tenet is
                            that God is a principle, not a personality understandable or conceivable
                            from the mortal or sensory side of life (which latter is an illusion),
                            and that man (spiritually speaking) in His image and likeness. Man is
                            not God or any part of Him. He is an idea in God, and, as such, as
                            perfect and indestructible and undisturbably harmonious as an idea in
                            God or principle must be. To those not metaphysically inclined, this is
                            usually dark and without significance, but to those spiritually or
                            metaphysically  minded it comes as a great
                            light. Matter becomes a built-up set or combination of illusions, which
                            may have evolved or not as one chooses, but which unquestionably have
                            been built up from nothing or an invisible, intangible idea, and have no
                            significance beyond the faith or credence, which those who are at base
                            spiritual give them. Deny themknow them to be what they areand they are
                            gone.
                        To Eugene, who at this time was in a great state of mental doldrumsblue,
                            dispirited, disheartened, inclined to see only evil and destructive
                            forcesthis might well come with peculiar significance, if it came at
                            all. He was one of those men who from their birth are metaphysically
                            inclined. All his life he had been speculating on the subtleties of
                            mortal existence, reading Spencer, Kant, Spinoza, at odd moments, and
                            particularly such men as Darwin, Huxley, Tyndall, Lord Avebury, Alfred
                            Russel Wallace, and latterly Sir Oliver Lodge and Sir William Crookes,
                            trying to find out by the inductive, naturalistic method just what life
                            was. He had secured inklings at times, he thought, by reading such
                            things as Emerson's "Oversoul," "The
                            Meditations of Marcus Aurelius," and Plato. God was a spirit,
                            he thought, as Christ had said to the woman at the well in Samaria, but
                            whether this spirit concerned itself with mortal affairs, where was so
                            much suffering and contention, was another matter. Personally he had
                            never believed soor been at all sure. He had always been moved by the
                            Sermon on the Mount; the beauty of Christ's attitude toward the
                            troubles of the world, the wonder of the faith of the old prophets in
                            insisting that God is God, that there are no other Gods before him, and
                            that he would repay iniquity with disfavor. Whether he did or not was an
                            open question with him. This question of sin had always puzzled
                            himoriginal sin. Were there laws which ante-dated human experience,
                            which were in GodThe Wordbefore it was made flesh? If so, what were
                            these laws? Did they concern matrimonysome spiritual union which was
                            older than life itself? Did they concern stealing? What was stealing
                            outside of life? Where was it before man began? Or did it only begin
                            with man? Ridiculous! It must relate to something in chemistry and
                            physics, which had worked out in life. A sociologista great professor in
                            one of the collegeshad once told him that he did not believe in success
                            or failure, sin, or a sense of self-righteousness except as they were
                            related to built-up instincts in the raceinstincts related solely to the
                            self-preservation and the evolution of the race. Beyond that was
                            nothing. Spiritual morality? Bah! He knew nothing about it.
                        
                        Such rank agnosticism could not but have had its weight with Eugene. He
                            was a doubter ever. All life, as I have said before, went to pieces
                            under his scalpel, and he could not put it together again logically,
                            once he had it cut up. People talked about the sanctity of marriage,
                            but, heavens, marriage was an evolution! He knew that. Someone had
                            written a two-volume treatise on it"The History of Human
                            Marriage," or something like thatand in it animals were shown
                            to have mated only for so long as it took to rear the young, to get them
                            to the point at which they could take care of themselves. And
                            wasn't this really what was at the basis of modern marriage? He
                            had read in this history, if he recalled aright, that the only reason
                            marriage had come to be looked upon as sacred, and for life, was the
                            length of time it took to rear the human young. It took so long that the
                            parents were old, safely so, before the children were launched into the
                            world. Then why separate?
                        But it was the duty of everybody to raise children.
                        Ah! there had been the trouble. He had been bothered by that. The home
                            centered around that. Children! Race reproduction! Pulling this wagon of
                            evolution! Was every man who did not inevitably damned? Was the race
                            spirit against him? Look at the men and women who didn'twho
                            couldn't. Thousands and thousands. And those who did always
                            thought those who didn't were wrong. The whole American spirit
                            he had always felt to be intensely set in this directionthe idea of
                            having children and rearing them, a conservative work-a-day spirit. Look
                            at his father. And yet other men were so shrewd that they preyed on this
                            spirit, moving factories to where this race spirit was the most active,
                            so that they could hire the children cheaply, and nothing happened to
                            them, or did something happen?
                        However, Myrtle continued to plead with him to look into this new
                            interpretation of the Scriptures, claiming that it was true, that it
                            would bring him into an understanding of spirit which would drive away
                            all these mortal ills, that it was above all mortal conceptionspiritual
                            over all, and so he thought about that. She told him that if it was
                            right that he should cease to live with Angela, it would come to pass,
                            and that if it was not, it would not; but anyhow and in any event in
                            this truth there would be peace and happiness to him. He should do what
                            was right ("seek ye first the Kingdom of God"), and
                            then all these things would be added unto him.
                        And it seemed terribly silly at first to Eugene for him to be listening
                            at all to any such talk, but later it was not so much  so. There were long arguments and
                            appeals, breakfast and dinner, or Sunday dinners at Myrtle's
                            apartment, arguments with Bangs and Myrtle concerning every phase of the
                            Science teaching, some visits to the Wednesday experience and testimony
                            meetings of their church, at which Eugene heard statements concerning
                            marvelous cures which he could scarcely believe, and so on. So long as
                            the testimonies confined themselves to complaints which might be due to
                            nervous imagination, he was satisfied that their cures were possibly due
                            to religious enthusiasm, which dispelled their belief in something which
                            they did not have, but when they were cured of cancer, consumption,
                            locomotor-ataxia, goitres, shortened limbs, herniahe did not wish to say
                            they were liars, they seemed too sincere to do that, but he fancied they
                            were simply mistaken. How could they, or this belief, or whatever it
                            was, cure cancer? Good Lord! He went on disbelieving in this way, and
                            refusing also to read the book until one Wednesday evening when he
                            happened to be at the Fourth Church of Christ Scientist in New York that
                            a man stood up beside him in his own pew and said:
                        "I wish to testify to the love and mercy of God in my case, for
                            I was hopelessly afflicted not so very long ago and one of the vilest
                            men I think it is possible to be. I was raised in a family where the
                            Bible was read night and morningmy father was a hidebound
                            Presbyterianand I was so sickened by the manner in which it was forced
                            down my throat and the inconsistencies which I thought I saw existing
                            between Christian principle and practice, even in my own home, that I
                            said to myself I would conform as long as I was in my father's
                            house and eating his bread, but when I got out I would do as I pleased.
                            I was in my father's house after that a number of years, until
                            I was seventeen, and then I went to a large city, Cincinnati, but the
                            moment I was away and free I threw aside all my so-called religious
                            training and set out to do what I thought was the most pleasant and
                            gratifying thing for me to do. I wanted to drink, and I did, though I
                            was really never a very successful drinker." Eugene smiled.
                            "I wanted to gamble, and I did, but I was never a very clever
                            gambler. Still I did gamble a bit. My great weakness was women, and here
                            I hope none will be offended, I know they will not be, for there may be
                            others who need my testimony badly. I pursued women as I would any other
                            lure. They were really all that I desiredtheir bodies. My lust was
                            terrible. It was such a dominant thought with me that I could not look
                            at any good-looking woman except, as the Bible says, to lust after her.
                            I was vile.  I became diseased. I was
                            carried into the First Church of Christ Scientist in Chicago, after I
                            had spent all my money and five years of my time on physicians and
                            specialists, suffering from locomotor ataxia, dropsy and kidney disease.
                            I had previously been healed of some other things by ordinary
                            medicine.
                        "If there is anyone within the sound of my voice who is
                            afflicted as I was, I want him to listen to me.
                        "I want to say to you tonight that I am a well mannot well
                            physically only, but well mentally, and, what is better yet, in so far
                            as I can see the truth, spiritually. I was healed after six
                            months' treatment by a Christian Science practitioner in
                            Chicago, who took my case on my appealing to her, and I stand before you
                            absolutely sound and whole. God is good."
                        He sat down.
                        While he had been talking Eugene had been studying him closely, observing
                            every line of his features. He was tall, lean, sandy-haired and
                            sandy-bearded. He was not bad-looking, with long straight nose, clear
                            blue eyes, a light pinkish color to his complexion, and a sense of vigor
                            and health about him. The thing that Eugene noted most was that he was
                            calm, cool, setene, vital. He said exactly what he wanted to say, and he
                            said it vigorously. His voice was clear and with good carrying power.
                            His clothes were shapely, new, well made. He was no beggar or tramp, but
                            a man of some professionan engineer, very likely. Eugene wished that he
                            might talk to him, and yet he felt ashamed. Somehow this man's
                            case paralleled his own; not exactly, but closely. He personally was
                            never diseased, but how often he had looked after a perfectly charming
                            woman to lust after her! Was the thing that this man was saying really
                            true? Could he be lying? How ridiculous! Could he be mistaken? This man? Impossible! He was too strong, too keen, too
                            sincere, too earnest, to be either of these things. StillBut this
                            testimony might have been given for his benefit, some strange helpful
                            powerthat kindly fate that had always pursued him might be trying to
                            reach him here. Could it be? He felt a little strange about it, as he
                            had when he saw the black-bearded man entering the train that took him
                            to Three Rivers, the time he went at the call of Suzanne, as he did when
                            horse-shoes were laid before him by supernatural forces to warn him of
                            coming prosperity. He went home thinking, and that night he seriously
                            tried to read "Science and Health" for the first
                            time.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XXV
                        THOSE who have ever tried to read that very peculiar and, to many, very
                            significant document know what an apparent jumble of contradictions and
                            metaphysical balderdash it appears to be. The statement concerning the
                            rapid multiplication and increased violence of diseases since the flood,
                            which appears in the introduction is enough to shock any believer in
                            definite, material, established natural science, and when Eugene came
                            upon this in the outset, it irritated him, of course, greatly. Why
                            should anybody make such a silly statement as this? Everybody knew that
                            there had never been a flood. Why quote a myth as a fact? It irritated
                            and from a critical point of view amused him. Then he came upon what he
                            deemed to be a jumble of confusion in regard to matter and spirit. The
                            author talked of the evidences of the five physical senses as being
                            worthless, and yet was constantly referring to and using similes based
                            upon those evidences to illustrate her spiritual meanings. He threw the
                            book down a number of times, for the Biblical references irritated him.
                            He did not believe in the Bible. The very word Christianity was a
                            sickening jest, as sickening as it had been to the man in the church. To
                            say that the miracles of Christ could be repeated today could not be
                            serious. Still the man had testified. Wasn't that so? A certain
                            vein of sincerity running through it allthat profound evidence of faith
                            and sympathy which are the characteristics of all sincere
                            reformersappealed to him. Some little thoughts here and therea profound
                            acceptance of the spiritual understanding of Jesus, which he himself
                            accepted, stayed with him. One sentence or paragraph somehow stuck in
                            his mind, because he himself was of a metaphysical turn
                        "Become conscious for a single moment that life and intelligence
                            are purely spiritual, neither in nor of matter, and the body will then
                            utter no complaints. If suffering from a belief in sickness, you will
                            find yourself suddenly well. Sorrow is turned into joy when the body is
                            controlled by spiritual life and love."
                        "God is a spirit," he recalled Jesus as saying.
                            "They that worship Him must worship in spirit and in
                            truth."
                        "You will find yourself suddenly well," thought Eugene.
                            "Sorrow is turned into joy."
                        
                        "Sorrow. What kind of sorrow? Love sorrow? This probably meant
                            the end of earthly love; that that too was mortal."
                        He read on, discovering that Scientists believed in the immaculate
                            conception of the Virgin Mary, which struck him as silly; also that they
                            believed in the ultimate abolition of marriage as representing a mortal
                            illusion of self-creation and perpetuation, and of course the having of
                            children through the agency of the sexes, also the dematerialization of
                            the bodyits chemicalization into its native spirituality, wherein there
                            can be neither sin, sickness, disease, decay nor death, were a part of
                            their belief or understanding. It seemed to him to be a wild claim, and
                            yet at the time, because of his natural metaphysical turn, it accorded
                            with his sense of the mystery of life.
                        It should be remembered as a factor in this reading that Eugene was
                            particularly fitted by temperamentintrospective, imaginative,
                            psychicaland by a momentarily despairing attitude, in which any straw
                            was worth grasping at which promised relief from sorrow, despair and
                            defeat, to make a study of this apparently radical theory of human
                            existence. He had heard a great deal of Christian Science, seeing its
                            churches built, its adherents multiplying, particularly in New York, and
                            enthusiastically claiming freedom from every human ill. Idle, without
                            entertainment or diversion and intensely introspective, it was natural
                            that these curious statements should arrest him.
                        He was not unaware, also, from past reading and scientific speculation,
                            that Carlyle had once said that "matter itselfthe outer world
                            of matter, was either nothing, or else a product due to man's
                            mind" (Carlyle's Journal, from Froude's Life
                            of Carlyle), and that Kant had held the whole universe to be something
                            in the eye or mindneither more nor less than a thought. Marcus Aurelius,
                            he recalled, had said somewhere in his meditations that the soul of the
                            universe was kind and merciful; that it had no evil in it, and was not
                            harmed by evil. This latter thought stuck in his mind as peculiar
                            because it was so diametrically opposed to his own feelings that the
                            universe, the spirit of it that is, was subtle, cruel, crafty, and
                            malicious. He wondered how a man who could come to be Emperor of Rome
                            could have thought otherwise. Christ's Sermon on the Mount had
                            always appealed to him as the lovely speculations of an idealist who had
                            no real knowledge of life. Yet he had always wondered why "Lay
                            not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth and rust doth
                            corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal" had
                            thrilled him as something so beautiful that it must be true
                            "For where your treasure is there will your  heart be also." Keats had said
                            "beauty is truthtruth beauty," and still another
                            "truth is what is."
                        "And what is?" he had asked himself in answer to
                            that.
                        "Beauty," was his reply to himself, for life at bottom,
                            in spite of all its teeming terrors, was beautiful.
                        Only those of a metaphysical or natural religious turn of mind would care
                            to follow the slow process of attempted alteration, which took place
                            during the series of months which followed Angela's departure
                            for Racine, her return to New York at Myrtle's solicitation,
                            the time she spent in the maternity hospital, whither she was escorted
                            on her arrival by Eugene and after. These are the deeps of being which
                            only the more able intellectually essay, but Eugene wandered in them far
                            and wide. There were long talks with Myrtle and Bangsarguments upon all
                            phases of mortal thought, real and unreal, with which Angela's
                            situation had nothing to do. Eugene frankly confessed that he did not
                            love herthat he did not want to live with her. He insisted that he could
                            scarcely live without Suzanne. There was the taking up and reading or
                            re-reading of odd philosophic and religious volumes, for he had nothing
                            else to do. He did not care at first to go and sit with Angela, sorry as
                            he was for her. He read or re-read Kent's "History of
                            the Hebrews"; Weiniger's "Sex and
                            Character"; Carl Snyder's "The World
                            Machine"; Muzzey's "Spiritual
                            Heroes"; Johnston's translation of "Bhagavad
                            Ghita"; Emerson's essay on the Oversoul, and
                            Huxley's "Science and Hebrew Tradition" and
                            "Science and Christian Tradition." He learned from
                            these things some curious facts which relate to religion, which he had
                            either not known before or forgotten, i.e., that the Jews were almost
                            the only race or nation which developed a consecutive line of religious
                            thinkers or prophets; that their ideal was first and last a single God
                            or Divinity, tribal at first, but later on universal, whose scope and
                            significance were widened until He embraced the whole universewas, in
                            fact, the Universea governing principleone God, however, belief in whom,
                            His power to heal, to build up and overthrow had never been
                            relinquished.
                        The Old Testament was full of that. Was that. The old prophets, he
                            learned to his astonishment, were little more than whirling dervishes
                            when they are first encountered historically, working themselves up into
                            wild transports and frenzies, lying on the ground and writhing, cutting
                            themselves as the Persian zealots do to this day in their feast of the
                            tenth month and resorting to the most curious devices for nurturing
                            their fanatic spirit, but always setting forth something that was
                            astonishingly  spiritual and great. They
                            usually frequented the holy places and were to be distinguished by their
                            wild looks and queer clothing. Isaiah eschewed clothing for three years
                            (Is. 22, 21); Jeremiah appeared in the streets of the capital (according
                            to Muzzey) with a wooden yoke on his neck, saying, "Thus shalt
                            Juda's neck be bent under bondage to the Babylonian"
                            (Jer. 27; 2 ff); Zedekiah came to King Ahab, wearing horns of iron like
                            a steer, and saying, "Thus shalt thou push the
                            Syrians" (I Kings 22, 11). The prophet was called mad because
                            he acted like a madman. Elisha dashed in on the gruff captain, Jehu, in
                            his camp and broke a vial of oil on his head, saying, "Thus
                            saith the Lord God of Israel, I have made thee king over the people of
                            the Lord"; then he opened the door and fled. Somehow, though
                            these things seemed wild, yet they accorded with Eugene's sense
                            of prophecy. They were not cheap but greatwildly dramatic, like the word
                            of a Lord God might be. Another thing that fascinated him was to find
                            that the evolutionary hypothesis did not after all shut out a conception
                            of a ruling, ordaining Divinity, as he had supposed, for he came across
                            several things in the papers which, now that he was thinking about this
                            so keenly, held him spellbound. One was quoted from a biological work by
                            a man named George M. Gould, and read:
                        "Life reaches control of physical forces by the cell-mechanism,
                            and, so far as we know, by it solely." From reading Mrs. Eddy
                            and arguing with Bangs, Eugene was not prepared to admit this, but he
                            was fascinated to see how it led ultimately to an acknowledgment of an
                            active Divinity which shapes our ends. "No organic molecule
                            shows any evidence of intellect, design or purpose. It is the product
                            solely of mathematically determinate and invariable physical forces.
                            Life becomes conscious of itself through specialized cellular activity,
                            and human personality, therefore, can only be a unity of greater
                            differentiations of function, a higher and fuller incarnation than the
                            single cell incarnation. Life, or God, is in the cell. . . . (And
                            everywhere outside of it, quite as active and more so, perhaps, Eugene
                            reserved mentally.) The cell's intelligence is His. (From
                            reading Mrs. Eddy, Eugene could not quite agree with this. According to
                            her, it was an illusion.) The human personality is also at last Himself
                            and only Himself. . . If you wish to say `Biologos' or God
                            instead of Life, I heartily agree, and we are face to face with the
                            sublime fact of biology. The cell is God's instrument and
                            mediator in materiality; it is the mechanism of incarnation, the word
                            made flesh and dwelling among us."
                        
                        The other was a quotation in a Sunday newspaper from some man who
                            appeared to be a working physicist of the timeEdgar Lucien Larkin:
                        "With the discovery and recent perfection of the new ultraviolet
                            light microscope and the companion apparatus, the microphotographic
                            camera, with rapidly moving, sensitive films, it seems that the extreme
                            limit of vision of the human eye has been reached. Inorganic and organic
                            particles have been seen, and these so minute that (the smallest)
                            objects visible in the most powerful old-style instruments are as huge
                            chunks in comparison. An active microscopic universe as wonderful as the
                            sidereal universe, the stellar structure, has been revealed. This
                            complexity actually exists; but exploration has scarcely commenced.
                            Within a hundred years, devoted to this research, the micro-universe may
                            be partially understood. Laws of micro-movements may be detected and
                            published in textbooks like those of the gigantic universe suns and
                            their concentric planets and moons. I cannot look into these minute
                            moving and living deeps without instantly believing that they are
                            mentalevery motion is controlled by mind. The longer I look at the
                            amazing things, the deeper is this conviction. This micro-universe is
                            rooted and grounded in a mental base. Positively and without hope of
                            overthrow, this assertion is madethe flying particles know where to go.
                            Coarse particles, those visible in old-time microscopes, when suspended
                            in liquids, were observed to be in rapid motion, darting to all
                            geometrical directions with high speed. But the ultra-violet microscope
                            reveals moving trillions of far smaller bodies, and these rush on
                            geometric lines and cutout angles with the most incredible speed,
                            specific for each kind and type."
                        What were the angles? Eugene asked himself. Who made them? Who or what
                            arranged the geometric lines? The "Divine Mind" of
                            Mrs. Eddy? Had this woman really found the truth? He pondered this,
                            reading on, and then one day in a paper he came upon this reflection in
                            regard to the universe and its government by Alfred Russel Wallace,
                            which interested him as a proof that there might be, as Jesus said and
                            as Mrs. Eddy contended, a Divine Mind or central thought in which there
                            was no evil intent, but only good. The quotation was: "Life is
                            that power which, from air and water and the substances dissolved
                            therein, builds up organized and highly complex structures possessing
                            definite forms and functions; these are presented in a continuous state
                            of decay and repair by internal circulation of fluids and gases; they
                            reproduce their like, go through various phases of  youth, maturity and age, die and quickly decompose into
                            their constituent elements. They thus form continuous series of similar
                            individuals and so long as external conditions render their existence
                            possible seem to possess a potential immortality.
                        "It is very necessary to presuppose some vast intelligence, some
                            pervading spirit, to explain the guidance of the lower forces in
                            accordance with the preordained system of evolution we see prevailing.
                            Nothing less will do. . . .
                        "If, however, we go as far as this, we must go further. . . . We
                            have a perfect right, on logical and scientific grounds, to see in all
                            the infinitely varied products of the animal and vegetable kingdoms,
                            which we alone can make use of, a preparation for ourselves, to assist
                            in our mental development, and to fit us for a progressively higher
                            state of existence as spiritual beings.
                        ". . . It seems only logical to assume that the vast, the
                            infinite chasm between ourselves and the Deity, is to some extent
                            occupied by an almost infinite series of grades of beings, each
                            successive grade having higher and higher powers in regard to the
                            origination, the development and the control of the universe.
                        ". . . There may have been a vast system of co-operation of such
                            grades of beings, from a very high grade of power and intelligence down
                            to those unconscious or almost unconscious cell souls posited by
                            Haeckel. . . .
                        "I can imagine the . . . Infinite Being, foreseeing and
                            determining the broad outlines of a universe. . . .
                        "He might, for instance, impress a sufficient number of his
                            highest angels to create by their will power the primal universe of
                            ether, with all those inherent properties and forces necessary for what
                            was to follow. Using this as a vehicle, the next subordinate association
                            of angels would so act upon the ether as to develop from it, in suitable
                            masses and at suitable distances, the various elements of matter, which,
                            under the influence of such laws and forces as gravitation, heat, and
                            electricity, would thenceforth begin to form those vast systems of nebul
                            and suns which constitute our stellar universe.
                        "Then we may imagine these hosts of angels, to whom a thousand
                            years are as one day, watching the development of this vast system of
                            suns and planets until some one or more of them combined in itself all
                            those conditions of size, of elementary constitution, of atmosphere, of
                            mass of water and requisite distance from its source of heat as to
                            insure a stability of constitution and uniformity of temperature for a
                            given minimum of millions of years, or of ages, as would be required for
                            the full development  of a life world from
                            amba to man, with a surplus of a few hundreds of millions for his
                            adequate development.
                        "We are led, therefore, to postulate a body of what we may term
                            organizing spirits, who would be charged with the duty of so influencing
                            the myriads of cell souls as to carry out their part of the work with
                            accuracy and certainty. . . .
                        "At successive stages of the development of the life world, more
                            and perhaps higher intelligences might be required to direct the main
                            lines of variation in definite directions, in accordance with the
                            general design to be worked out, and to guard against a break in the
                            particular line, which alone could lead ultimately to the production of
                            the human form.
                        "This speculative suggestion, I venture to hope, will appeal to
                            some of my readers as the very best approximation we are now able to
                            formulate as to the deeper, the most fundamental causes of matter and
                            force of life and consciousness, and of man himself, at his best,
                            already a little lower than the angels, and, like them, destined to a
                            permanent progressive existence in a world of spirit."
                        This very peculiar and apparently progressive statement in regard to the
                            conclusion which naturalistic science had revealed in regard to the
                            universe struck Eugene as pretty fair confirmation of Mrs.
                            Eddy's contention that all was mind and its infinite variety
                            and that the only difference between her and the British scientific
                            naturalists was that they contended for an ordered hierarchy which could
                            only rule and manifest itself according to its own ordered or
                            self-imposed laws, which they could perceive or detect, whereas, she
                            contended for a governing spirit which was everywhere and would act
                            through ordered laws and powers of its own arrangement. God was a
                            principle like a rule in mathematicstwo times two is four, for
                            instanceand was as manifest daily and hourly and momentarily in a hall
                            bedroom as in the circling motions of suns and systems. God was a
                            principle. He grasped that now. A principle could be and was of course
                            anywhere and everywhere at one and the same time. One could not imagine
                            a place for instance where two times two would not be four, or where
                            that rule would not be. So, likewise with the omnipotent, omniscient,
                            omnipresent mind of God.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XXVI
                        THE most dangerous thing to possess a man to the extent of dominating him
                            is an idea. It can and does ride him to destruction. Eugene's
                            idea of the perfection of eighteen was one of the most dangerous things
                            in his nature. In a way, combined with the inability of Angela to
                            command his interest and loyalty, it had been his undoing up to this
                            date. A religious idea followed in a narrow sense would have diverted
                            this other, but it also might have destroyed him, if he had been able to
                            follow it. Fortunately the theory he was now interesting himself in was
                            not a narrow dogmatic one in any sense, but religion in its large
                            aspects, a comprehensive resum and spiritual co-ordination of the
                            metaphysical speculation of the time, which was worthy of
                            anyone's intelligent inquiry. Christian Science as a cult or
                            religion was shunned by current religions and religionists as something
                            outr, impossible, uncannyas necromancy, imagination, hypnotism,
                            mesmerism, spiritismeverything, in short, that it was not, and little,
                            if anything, that it really was. Mrs. Eddy had formulated or rather
                            restated a fact that was to be found in the sacred writings of India; in
                            the Hebrew testaments, old and new; in Socrates, Marcus Aurelius, St.
                            Augustine, Emerson, and Carlyle. The one variation notable between her
                            and the moderns was that her ruling unity was not
                            malicious, as Eugene and many others fancied, but helpful. Her unity was a unity of love. God was
                            everything but the father of evil, which according to her was an
                            illusionneither fact nor substancesound and fury, signifying
                            nothing.
                        It must be remembered that during all the time Eugene was doing this
                            painful and religious speculation he was living in the extreme northern
                            portion of the city, working desultorily at some paintings which he
                            thought he might sell, visiting Angela occasionally, safely hidden away
                            in the maternity hospital at One Hundred and Tenth Street, thinking
                            hourly and momentarily of Suzanne, and wondering if, by any chance, he
                            should ever see her any more. His mind had been so inflamed by the
                            beauty and the disposition of this girl that he was really not normal
                            any longer. He needed some shock, some catastrophe greater than any he
                            had previously experienced to bring him to his senses. The loss of his
                            position had done something. The loss of Suzanne had only heightened his
                            affection for her. The  condition of
                            Angela had given him pause, for it was an interesting question what
                            would become of her. "If she would only die!" he said
                            to himself, for we have the happy faculty of hating most joyously on
                            this earth the thing we have wronged the most. He could scarcely go and
                            see her, so obsessed was he with the idea that she was a handicap to his
                            career. The idea of her introducing a child into his life only made him
                            savage. Now, if she should die, he would have the child to care for and
                            Suzanne, because of it, might never come to him.
                        His one idea at this time was not to be observed too much, or rather not
                            at all, for he considered himself to be in great disfavor, and only
                            likely to do himself injury by a public appearancea fact which was more
                            in his own mind than anywhere else. If he had not believed it, it would
                            not have been true. For this reason he had selected this quiet
                            neighborhood where the line of current city traffic was as nothing, for
                            here he could brood in peace. The family that he lived with knew nothing
                            about him. Winter was setting in. Because of the cold and snow and high
                            winds, he was not likely to see many people hereaboutsparticularly those
                            celebrities who had known him in the past. There was a great deal of
                            correspondence that followed him from his old address, for his name had
                            been used on many committees, he was in "Who's
                            Who," and he had many friends less distinguished than those
                            whose companionship would have required the expenditure of much money
                            who would have been glad to look him up. He ignored all invitations,
                            however; refused to indicate by return mail where he was for the
                            present; walked largely at night; read, painted, or sat and brooded
                            during the day. He was thinking all the time of Suzanne and how
                            disastrously fate had trapped him apparently through her. He was
                            thinking that she might come back, that she ought. Lovely, hurtful
                            pictures came to him of re-encounters with her in which she would rush
                            into his arms, never to part from him any more. Angela, in her room at
                            the hospital, received little thought from him. She was there. She was
                            receiving expert medical attention. He was paying all the bills. Her
                            serious time had not yet really come. Myrtle was seeing her. He caught
                            glimpses of himself at times as a cruel, hard intellect driving the most
                            serviceable thing his life had known from him with blows, but somehow it
                            seemed justifiable. Angela was not suited to him. Why could she not live
                            away from him? Christian Science set aside marriage entirely as a human
                            illusion, conflicting with the indestructible unity of the individual
                            with God. Why shouldn't she let him go?
                        
                        He wrote poems to Suzanne, and read much poetry that he found in an old
                            trunkful of books in the house where he was living. He would read again
                            and again the sonnet beginning, "When in disgrace with fortune
                            and men's eyes"that cry out of a darkness that seemed
                            to be like his own. He bought a book of verse by Yeats, and seemed to
                            hear his own voice saying of Suzanne, "Why should I blame
                            her that she filled iny days With misery. . .
                        He was not quite as bad as he was when he had broken down eight years
                            before, but he was very bad. His mind was once more riveted upon the
                            uncertainty of life, its changes, its follies. He was studying those
                            things only which deal with the abstrusities of nature, and this began
                            to breed again a morbid fear of life itself. Myrtle was greatly
                            distressed about him. She worried lest he might lose his mind.
                        "Why don't you go to see a practitioner,
                            Eugene?" she begged of him one day. "You will get
                            helpreally you will. You think you won't, but you will. There
                            is something about them I don't know what. They are spiritually
                            at rest. You will feel better. Do go."
                        "Oh, why do you bother me, Myrtle? Please don't. I
                            don't want to go. I think there is something in the idea
                            metaphysically speaking, but why should I go to a practitioner? God is
                            as near me as He is anyone, if there is a God.
                        Myrtle wrung her hands, and because she felt so badly more than anything
                            else, he finally decided to go. There might be something hypnotic or
                            physically contagious about these peoplesome old alchemy of the mortal
                            body, which could reach and soothe him. He believed in hypnotism,
                            hypnotic suggestion, etc. He finally called up one practitioner, an old
                            lady highly recommended by Myrtle and others, who lived farther south on
                            Broadway, somewhere in the neighborhood of Myrtle's home. Mrs.
                            Althea Johns was her namea woman who had performed wonderful cures. Why
                            should he, Eugene Witla, exmanaging publisher of the United Magazines
                            Corporation, exartist (in a way, he felt that he was no longer an artist
                            in the best sense) be going to a woman in Christian Science to be healed
                            of what? Gloom? Yes. Failure? Yes. Heartache? Yes. His evil tendencies
                            in regard to women, such as the stranger who had sat beside him had
                            testified to? Yes. How strange! And yet he was curious. It interested
                            him a little to  speculate as to whether
                            this could really be done. Could he be healed of failure? Could this
                            pain of longing be made to cease? Did he want it to cease? No; certainly
                            not! He wanted Suzanne. Myrtle's idea, he knew, was that
                            somehow this treatment would reunite him and Angela and make him forget
                            Suzanne, but he knew that could not be. He was going, but he was going
                            because he was unhappy and idle and aimless. He was going because he
                            really did not know what else to do.
                        The apartment of Mrs. JohnsMrs. Althea Johnswas in an apartment house of
                            conventional design, of which there were in New York hundreds upon
                            hundreds at the time. There was a spacious areaway between two wings of
                            cream-colored pressed brick leading back to an entrance way which was
                            protected by a handsome wrought-iron door on either side of which was
                            placed an electric lamp support of handsome design, holding lovely
                            cream-colored globes, shedding a soft lustre. Inside was the usual
                            lobby, elevator, uniformed negro elevator man, indifferent and
                            impertinent, and the telephone switchboard. The building was seven
                            storeys high. Eugene went one snowy, blustery January night. The great
                            wet flakes were spinning in huge whirls and the streets were covered
                            with a soft, slushy carpet of snow. He was interested, as usual, in
                            spite of his gloom, in the picture of beauty the world presentedthe city
                            wrapped in a handsome mantle of white. Here were cars rumbling, people
                            hunched in great coats facing the driving wind. He liked the snow, the
                            flakes, this wonder of material living. It eased his mind of his misery
                            and made him think of painting again. Mrs. Johns was on the seventh
                            floor. Eugene knocked and was admitted by a maid. He was shown to a
                            waiting room, for he was a little ahead of his time, and there were
                            othershealthy-looking men and women, who did not appear to have an ache
                            or painahead of him. Was not this a sign, he thought as he sat down,
                            that this was something which dealt with imaginary ills? Then why had
                            the man he had heard in the church beside him testified so forcibly and
                            sincerely to his healing? Well, he would wait and see. He did not see
                            what it could do for him now. He had to work. He sat there in one
                            corner, his hands folded and braced under his chin, thinking. The room
                            was not artistic but rather nondescript, the furniture cheap or rather
                            tasteless in design. Didn't Divine Mind know any better than to
                            present its representatives in such a guise as this? Could a person
                            called to assist in representing the majesty of God on earth be left so
                            unintelligent artistically as to live in a house like  this? Surely this was a poor
                            manifestation of Divinity, but
                        Mrs. Johns camea short, stout, homely woman, gray, wrinkled, dowdy, in
                            her clothing, a small wen on one side of her mouth, a nose slightly too
                            big to be pleasingall mortal deficiencies as to appearance highly
                            emphasized, and looking like an old print of Mrs. Micawber that he had
                            seen somewhere. She had on a black skirt good as to material, but
                            shapeless, commonplace, and a dark blue-gray waist. Her eye was clear
                            and gray though, he noticed, and she had a pleasing smile.
                        "This is Mr. Witla, I believe," she said, coming across
                            the room to him, for he had got into a corner near the window, and
                            speaking with an accent which sounded a little Scotch.
                            "I'm so glad to see you. Won't you come
                            in?" she said, giving him precedence over some others because
                            of his appointment, and re-crossed the room preceding him down the hall
                            to her practice room. She stood to one side to take his hand as he
                            passed.
                        He touched it gingerly.
                        So this was Mrs. Johns, he thought, as he entered, looking about him.
                            Bangs and Myrtle had insisted that she had performed wonderful curesor
                            rather that Divine Mind had, through her. Her hands were wrinkled, her
                            face old. Why didn't she make herself young if she could
                            perform these wonderful cures? Why was this room so mussy? It was
                            actually stuffy with chromos and etchings of the Christ and Bible scenes
                            on the walls, a cheap red carpet or rug on the floor, inartistic
                            leather-covered chairs, a table or desk too full of books, a pale
                            picture of Mrs. Eddy and silly mottoes of which he was sick and tired
                            hung here and there. People were such hacks when it came to the art of
                            living. How could they pretend to a sense of Divinity who knew nothing
                            of life? He was weary and the room here offended him. Mrs. Johns did.
                            Besides, her voice was slightly falsetto. Could she
                            cure cancer? and consumption? and all other horrible human ills, as
                            Myrtle insisted she had? He didn't believe it.
                        He sat down wearily and yet contentiously in the chair she pointed out to
                            him and stared at her while she quietly seated herself opposite him
                            looking at him with kindly, smiling eyes.
                        "And now," she said easily, "what does
                            God's child think is the matter with him?
                        Eugene stirred irritably.
                        "God's child," he thought; "what
                            cant!" What right had he to claim to be a child of God? What
                            was the use of beginning that way? It was silly, so asinine. Why not ask
                            plainly what was the matter with him? Still he answered:
                        
                        "Oh, a number of things. So many that I am pretty sure they can
                            never be remedied."
                        "As bad as that? Surely not. It is good to know, anyhow, that
                            nothing is impossible to God. We can believe that, anyhow,
                            can't we?" she replied, smiling. "You believe
                            in God, or a ruling power, don't you?"
                        "I don't know whether I do or not. In the main, I guess
                            I do. I'm sure I ought to. Yes, I guess I do."
                        "Is He a malicious God to you?"
                        "I have always thought so," he replied, thinking of
                            Angela. "Mortal mind! Mortal mind!" she asseverated to
                            herself. "What delusions will it not harbor!"
                        And then to him:
                        "One has to be cured almost against one's will to know
                            that God is a God of love. So you believe you are sinful, do you, and
                            that He is malicious? It is not necessary that you should tell me how.
                            We are all alike in the mortal state. I would like to call your
                            attention to Isaiah's words, 'Though your sins be as
                            scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though they be red like
                            crimson, they shall be as wool.'"
                        Eugene had not heard this quotation for years. It was only a dim thing in
                            his memory. It flashed out simply now and appealed, as had all these
                            Hebraic bursts of prophetic imagery in the past. Mrs. Johns, for all her
                            wen and her big nose and dowdy clothes, was a little better for having
                            been able to quote this so aptly. It raised her in his estimation. It
                            showed a vigorous mind, at least a tactful mind.
                        "Can you cure sorrow?" he asked grimly and with a touch
                            of sarcasm in his voice. "Can you cure heartache or
                            fear?"
                        "I can do nothing of myself," she said, perceiving his
                            mood. "All things are possible to God, however. If you believe
                            in a Supreme Intelligence, He will cure you. St. Paul says 'I
                            can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me.' Have
                            you read Mrs. Eddy's book?"
                        "Most of it. I'm still reading it."
                        "Do you understand it?"
                        "No, not quite. It seems a bundle of contradictions to
                            me."
                        "To those who are first coming into Science it nearly always
                            seems so. But don't let that worry you. You would like to be
                            cured of your troubles. St. Paul says, 'For the wisdom of this
                            world is foolishness with God.'The Lord knoweth the thoughts of
                            the wisethat they are vain.' Do not think of me as a woman, or
                            as having had anything to do with this. I would  rather have you think of me as St. Paul describes anyone
                            who works for truth'Now then we are ambassadors for Christ, as
                            though God did beseech you by us, we pray you in Christ's
                            stead, be ye reconciled to God.'"
                        "You know your Bible, don't you?" said
                            Eugene.
                        "It is the only knowledge I have," she replied.
                        There followed one of those peculiar religious demonstrations so common
                            in Christian Scienceso peculiar to the uninitiatedin which she asked
                            Eugene to fix his mind in meditation on the Lord's prayer.
                            "Never mind if it seems pointless to you now. You have come
                            here seeking aid. You are God's perfect image and likeness. He
                            will not send you away empty-handed. Let me read you first, though, this
                            one psalm, which I think is always so helpful to the beginner."
                            She opened her Bible, which was on the table near her, and began:
                        "He that dwelleth in the secret place of the most high shall
                            abide under the shadow of the Almighty.
                        "I will say of the Lord, He is my refuge and my fortress; my
                            God; in him will I trust.
                        "Surely he shall deliver thee from the snare of the fowler, and
                            from the noisome pestilence.
                        "He shall cover thee with his feathers, and under his wings
                            shalt thou trust: his truth shall be thy shield and thy buckler.
                        "Thou shalt not be afraid for the terror by night, nor for the
                            arrow that flieth by day. Nor for the pestilence that walketh in the
                            darkness; nor for destruction that wasteth at noonday.
                        "A thousand shall fall at thy side, and ten thousand at thy
                            right hand; but it shall not come nigh thee.
                        "Only with thine eyes shalt thou behold and see the reward of
                            the wicked.
                        "Because thou hast made the Lord, which is my refuge, even the
                            most High, thy habitation; There shall no evil befall thee, neither
                            shall any plague come nigh thy dwelling.
                        "For he shall give his angels charge over thee, to keep thee in
                            all thy ways.
                        "They shall bear thee up in their hands, lest thou dash thy foot
                            against a stone.
                        "Thou shalt tread upon the lion and the adder, the young lion
                            and the dragon shalt thou trample under foot.
                        "Because he hath set his love upon me, therefore will I deliver
                            him. I will set him on high, because he hath known my name.
                        "He shall call upon me, and I will answer him: I will be with
                            him in trouble. I will deliver him and honor him.
                        
                        "With long life will I satisfy him, and show him my
                            salvation."
                        During this most exquisite pronunciamento of Divine favor Eugene was
                            sitting with his eyes closed, his thoughts wandering over all his recent
                            ills. For the first time in years, he was trying to fix his mind upon an
                            all-wise, omnipresent, omnipotent generosity. It was hard and he could
                            not reconcile the beauty of this expression of Divine favor with the
                            nature of the world as he knew it. What was the use of saying,
                            "They shall bear thee up in their hands lest thou dash thy foot
                            against a stone," when he had seen Angela and himself suffering
                            so much recently? Wasn't he dwelling in the secret place of the
                            Most High when he was alive? How could one get out of it?
                            Still"Because he hath set his love on metherefore will I
                            deliver him." Was that the answer? Was Angela's love
                            set on him? Was his own? Might not all their woes have sprung from
                            that?
                        "He shall call upon me and I shall answer. I will deliver him in
                            trouble. I will deliver him and honor him."
                        Had he ever really called on Him? Had Angela?
                            Hadn't they been left in the slough of their own despond? Still
                            Angela was not suited to him. Why did not God straighten that out? He
                            didn't want to live with her.
                        He wandered through this philosophically, critically, until Mrs. Johns
                            stopped. What, he asked himself, if, in spite of all his doubts, this
                            seeming clamor and reality and pain and care were an illusion? Angela
                            was suffering. So were many other people. How could this thing be true?
                            Did not these facts exclude the possibility of illusion? Could they
                            possibly be a part of it?
                        "Now we are going to try to realize that we are God's
                            perfect children," she said, stopping and looking at him.
                            "We think we are so big and strong and real. We are real
                            enough, but only as a thought in Godthat is all. No harm can happen to
                            us thereno evil can come nigh us. For God is infinite, all power, all
                            life. Truth, Love, over all, and all."
                        She closed her eyes and began, as she said, to try to realize for him the
                            perfectness of his spirit in God. Eugene sat there trying to think of
                            the Lord's prayer, but in reality thinking of the room, the
                            cheap prints, the homely furniture, her ugliness, the curiousness of his
                            being there. He, Eugene Witla, being prayed for! What would Angela
                            think? Why was this woman old, if spirit could do all these other
                            things? Why didn't she make herself beautiful? What was it she
                            was doing now? Was this hypnotism, mesmerism, she was practicing? He
                            remembered  where Mrs. Eddy had especially
                            said that these were not to be practicedcould not be in Science. No, she
                            was no doubt sincere. She looked ittalked it. She believed in this
                            beneficent spirit. Would it aid as the psalm said? Would it heal this
                            ache? Would it make him not want Suzanne ever any more? Perhaps that was
                            evil? Yes, no doubt it was. StillPerhaps he had better fix his mind on
                            the Lord's Prayer. Divinity could aid him if it would.
                            Certainly it could. No doubt of it. There was nothing impossible to this
                            vast force ruling the universe. Look at the telephone, wireless
                            telegraphy. How about the stars and sun? "He shall give his
                            angels charge over thee."
                        "Now," said Mrs. Johns, after some fifteen minutes of
                            silent meditation had passedand she opened her eyes
                            smilingly"we are going to see whether we are not going to be
                            better. We are going to feel better, because we are going to do better,
                            and because we are going to realize that nothing can hurt an idea in
                            God. All the rest is illusions. It cannot hold us, for it is not real.
                            Think goodGodand you are good. Think evil and you are evil, but it has
                            no reality outside your own thought. Remember that." She talked
                            to him as though he was a little child.
                        He went out into the snowy night where the wind was whirling the snow in
                            picturesque whirls, buttoning his coat about him. The cars were running
                            up Broadway as usual. Taxicabs were scuttling by. There were people
                            forging their way through the snow, that ever-present company of a great
                            city. There were arc lights burning clearly blue through the flying
                            flakes. He wondered as he walked whether this would do him any good.
                            Mrs. Eddy insisted that all these were unreal, he thoughtthat mortal
                            mind had evolved something which was not in accord with spiritmortal
                            mind "a liar and the father of it," he recalled that
                            quotation. Could it be so? Was evil unreal? Was misery only a belief?
                            Could he come out of his sense of fear and shame and once more face the
                            world? He boarded a car to go north. At Kingsbridge he made his way
                            thoughtfully to his room. How could life ever be restored to him as it
                            had been? He was really forty years of age. He sat down in his chair
                            near his lamp and took up his book, "Science and
                            Health," and opened it aimlessly. Then he thought for
                            curiosity's sake he would see where he had opened itwhat the
                            particular page or paragraph his eye fell on had to say to him. He was
                            still intensely superstitious. He looked, and here was this paragraph
                            growing under his eyes:
                        
                        "When mortal man blends his thoughts of existence with the
                            spiritual, and works only as God works, he will no longer grope in the
                            dark and cling to earth because he has not tasted heaven. Carnal beliefs
                            defraud us. They make man an involuntary hypocriteproducing evil when he
                            would create good, forming deformity when he would outline grace and
                            beauty, injuring those whom he would bless. He becomes a general
                            mis-creator, who believes he is a semi-God. His touch turns hope to
                            dust, the dust we all have trod. He might say in Bible language,
                            'The good that I would, I do not, but evil, which I would not,
                            I do.'"
                        He closed the book and meditated. He wished he might realize this thing
                            if this were so. Still he did not want to become a religionista
                            religious enthusiast. How silly they were. He picked up his daily
                            paperthe Evening Postand there on an inside page
                            quoted in an obscure corner was a passage from a poem by the late
                            Francis Thompson, entitled "The Hound of Heaven." It
                            began:
                        
                            "I fled Him, down the nights and down the days;
                            I fled Him, down the arches of the years. . .
                        
                        The ending moved him strangely:
                        
                            Still with unhurrying chase,
                            And unperturbed face
                            Deliberate speed, majestic instancy
                            Came on the following Feet,
                            And a voice above their beat
                            "Naught shelters thee, who wilt not shelter
                                Me."
                        
                        Did this man really believe this? Was it so?
                        He turned back to his book and read on, and by degrees he came half to
                            believe that sin and evil and sickness might possibly be illusionsthat
                            they could be cured by aligning one's self intellectually and
                            spiritually with this Divine Principle. He wasn't sure. This
                            terrible sense of wrong. Could he give up Suzanne? Did he want to?
                            No!
                        He got up and went to the window and looked out. The snow was still
                            blowing.
                        "Give her up! Give her up!" And Angela in such a
                            precarious condition. What a devil of a hole he was in, anyway! Well, he
                            would go and see her in the morning. He would at least be kind. He would
                            see her through this thing. He lay down and tried to sleep, but somehow
                            sleep never came to him right any more. He was too wearied, too
                            distressed, too wrought up. Still he slept a little, and that was all he
                            could hope for in these days.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XXVII
                        IT was while he was in this state, some two months later, that the great
                            event, so far as Angela was concerned, came about, and in it, of
                            necessity, he was compelled to take part. Angela was in her room, cosily
                            and hygienically furnished, overlooking the cathedral grounds at
                            Morningside Heights, and speculating hourly what her fate was to be. She
                            had never wholly recovered from the severe attack of rheumatism which
                            she had endured the preceding summer and, because of her worries since,
                            in her present condition was pale and weak though she was not ill. The
                            head visiting obstetrical surgeon, Dr. Lambert, a lean, gray man of
                            sixty-five years of age, with grizzled cheeks, whose curly gray hair,
                            wide, humped nose and keen gray eyes told of the energy and insight and
                            ability that had placed him where he was, took a slight passing fancy to
                            her, for she seemed to him one of those plain, patient little women
                            whose lives are laid in sacrificial lines. He liked her brisk,
                            practical, cheery disposition in the face of her condition, which was
                            serious, and which was so noticeable to strangers. Angela had naturally
                            a bright, cheery face, when she was not depressed or quarrelsome. It was
                            the outward sign of her ability to say witty and clever things, and she
                            had never lost the desire to have things done efficiently and
                            intelligently about her wherever she was. The nurse, Miss De Sale, a
                            solid, phlegmatic person of thirty-five, admired her spunk and courage
                            and took a great fancy to her also because she was lightsome, buoyant
                            and hopeful in the face of what was really a very serious situation. The
                            general impression of the head operating surgeon, the house surgeon and
                            the nurse was that her heart was weak and that her kidneys might be
                            affected by her condition. Angela had somehow concluded after talks with
                            Myrtle that Christian Science, as demonstrated by its practitioners,
                            might help her through this crisis, though she had no real faith in it.
                            Eugene would come round, she thought, also, for Myrtle was having him
                            treated absently, and he was trying to read the book, she said. There
                            would be a reconciliation between them when the baby camebecausebecause
                            Well, because children were so winning! Eugene was really not
                            hard-heartedhe was just infatuated. He had been ensnared by a siren. He
                            would get over it.
                        
                        Miss De Sale let her hair down in braids, Gretchen style, and fastened
                            great pink bows of ribbon in them. As her condition became more
                            involved, only the lightest morning gowns were given hersoft,
                            comfortable things in which she sat about speculating practically about
                            the future. She had changed from a lean shapeliness to a swollen,
                            somewhat uncomely object, but she made the best of a bad situation.
                            Eugene saw her and felt sorry. It was the end of winter now, with snow
                            blowing gaily or fiercely about the windows, and the park grounds
                            opposite were snow-white. She could see the leafless line of sentinel
                            poplars that bordered the upper edges of Morningside. She was calm,
                            patient, hopeful, while the old obstetrician shook his head gravely to
                            the house surgeon.
                        "We shall have to be very careful. I shall take charge of the
                            actual birth myself. See if you can't build up her strength. We
                            can only hope that the head is small."
                        Angela's littleness and courage appealed to him. For once in a
                            great many cases he really felt sorry.
                        The house surgeon did as directed. Angela was given specially prepared
                            food and drink. She was fed frequently. She was made to keep perfectly
                            quiet.
                        "Her heart," the house surgeon reported to his
                            superior, "I don't like that. It's weak and
                            irregular. I think there's a slight lesion."
                        "We can only hope for the best," said the other
                            solemnly. "We'll try and do without
                            ether."
                        Eugene in his peculiar mental state was not capable of realizing the
                            pathos of all this. He was alienated temperamentally and emotionally.
                            Thinking that he cared for his wife dearly, the nurse and the house
                            surgeon were for not warning him. They did not want to frighten him. He
                            asked several times whether he could be present during the delivery, but
                            they stated that it would be dangerous and trying. The nurse asked
                            Angela if she had not better advise him to stay away. Angela did, but
                            Eugene felt that in spite of his alienation, she needed him. Besides, he
                            was curious. He thought Angela would stand it better if he were near,
                            and now that the ordeal was drawing nigh, he was beginning to understand
                            how desperate it might be and to think it was only fair that he should
                            assist her. Some of the old pathetic charm of her littleness was coming
                            back to him. She might not live. She would have to suffer much. She had
                            meant no real evil to himonly to hold him. Oh, the bitterness and the
                            pathos of this welter of earthly emotions. Why should they be so
                            tangled?
                        
                        The time drew very near, and Angela was beginning to suffer severe pains.
                            Those wonderful processes of the all-mother, which bind the coming life
                            in a cradle of muscles and ligaments were practically completed and were
                            now relaxing their tendencies in one direction to enforce them in
                            another. Angela suffered at times severely from straining ligaments. Her
                            hands were clenched desperately, her face would become deathly pale. She
                            would cry. Eugene was with her on a number of these occasions and it
                            drove home to his consciousness the subtlety and terror of this great
                            scheme of reproduction, which took all women to the door of the grave,
                            in order that this mortal scheme of things might be continued. He began
                            to think that there might be something in the assertion of the Christian
                            Science leaders that it was a lie and an illusion, a terrible fitful
                            fever outside the rational consciousness of God. He went to the library
                            one day and got down a book on obstetrics, which covered the principles
                            and practice of surgical delivery. He saw there scores of pictures drawn
                            very carefully of the child in various positions in the womball the
                            strange, peculiar, flower-like positions it could take, folded in upon
                            itself like a little half-formed petal. The pictures were attractive,
                            some of them beautiful, practical as they were. They appealed to his
                            fancy. They showed the coming baby perfect, but so small, its head now
                            in one position, now in another, its little arms twisted about in odd
                            places, but always delightfully, suggestively appealing. From reading
                            here and there in the volume, he learned that the great difficulty was
                            the headthe delivery of that. It appeared that no other difficulty
                            really confronted the obstetrician. How was that to be got out? If the
                            head were large, the mother old, the walls of the peritoneal cavity
                            tight or hard, a natural delivery might be impossible. There were whole
                            chapters on Craniotomy, Cephalotripsy, which in plain English means
                            crushing the head with an instrument. . . .
                        One chapter was devoted to the Csarian operation, with a description of
                            its tremendous difficulties and a long disquisition on the ethics of
                            killing the child to save the mother, or the mother to save the child
                            with their relative values to society indicated. Think of ita surgeon
                            sitting in the seat of judge and executioner at the critical moment! Ah,
                            life with its petty laws did not extend here. Here we came back to the
                            conscience of man which Mrs. Eddy maintained was a reflection of
                            immanent mind. If God were good, He would speak through thatHe was
                            speaking through it. This surgeon referred to that  inmost consciousness of supreme moral law, which alone
                            could guide the practitioner in this dreadful hour.
                        Then he told of what implements were necessary, how many assistants
                            (two), how many nurses (four), the kinds of bandages, needles, silk and
                            catgut thread, knives, clamp dilators, rubber gloves. He showed how the
                            cut was to be madewhen, where. Eugene closed the book, frightened. He
                            got up and walked out in the air, a desire to hurry up to Angela
                            impelling him. She was weak, he knew that. She had complained of her
                            heart. Her muscles were probably set. Supposing these problems, any one
                            of them, should come in connection with her. He did not wish her to
                            die.
                        He had said he hadyes, but he did not want to be a murderer. No, no!
                            Angela ha- been good to him. She had worked for him.
                            Why, God damn it, she had actually suffered for him in times past. He
                            had treated her badly, very badly, and now in her pathetic little way
                            she had put herself in this terrific position. It was her fault, to be
                            sure it was. She had been trying as she always had to hold him against
                            his will, but then could he really blame her? It wasn't a crime
                            for her to want him to love her. They were just mis-mated. He had tried
                            to be kind in marrying her, and he hadn't been kind at all. It
                            had merely produced unrest, dissatisfaction, unhappiness for him and for
                            her, and now thisthis danger of death through pain, a weak heart,
                            defective kidneys, a Csarian operation. Why, she couldn't stand
                            anything like that. There was no use talking about it. She
                            wasn't strong enoughshe was too old.
                        He thought of Christian Science practitioners, of how they might save
                            herof some eminent surgeon who would know how without the knife. How?
                            How? If these Christian Scientists could only think
                            her through a thing like thishe wouldn't be sorry. He would be
                            glad, for her sake, if not his own. He might give up Suzannehe mighthe
                            might. Oh, why should that thought intrude on him now?
                        When he reached the hospital it was three o'clock in the
                            afternoon, and he had been there for a little while in the morning when
                            she was comparatively all right. She was much worse. The straining pains
                            in her side which she had complained of were worse and her face was
                            alternately flushed and pale, sometimes convulsed a little. Myrtle was
                            there talking with her, and Eugene stood about nervously, wondering what
                            he should dowhat he could do. Angela saw his worry. In  spite of her own condition she was sorry
                            for him. She knew that this would cause him pain, for he was not
                            hard-hearted, and it was his first sign of relenting. She smiled at him,
                            thinking that maybe he would come round and change his attitude
                            entirely. Myrtle kept reassuring her that all would be well with her.
                            The nurse said to her and to the house doctor who came in, a young man
                            of twenty-eight, with keen, quizzical eyes, whose sandy hair and ruddy
                            complexion bespoke a fighting disposition, that she was doing
                            nicely.
                        "No bearing down pains?" he asked, smiling at Angela,
                            his even white teeth showing in two gleaming rows.
                        "I don't know what kind they are, doctor," she
                            replied. "I've had all kinds."
                        "You'll know them fast enough," he replied,
                            mock cheerfully. "They're not like any other
                            kind."
                        He went away and Eugene followed him.
                        "How is she doing?" he asked, when they were out in the
                            hall.
                        "Well enough, considering. She's not very strong, you
                            know. I have an idea she is going to be all right. Dr. Lambert will be
                            here in a little while. You had better talk to him."
                        The house surgeon did not want to lie. He thought Eugene ought to be
                            told. Dr. Lambert was of the same opinion, but he wanted to wait until
                            the last, until he could judge approximately correctly.
                        He came at five, when it was already dark outside, and looked at Angela
                            with his grave, kindly eyes. He felt her pulse, listened to her heart
                            with his stethoscope.
                        "Do you think I shall be all right, doctor?" asked
                            Angela faintly.
                        "To be sure, to be sure," he replied softly.
                            "Little woman, big courage." He smoothed her hand.
                        He walked out and Eugene followed him.
                        "Well, doctor," he said. For the first time for months
                            Eugene was thinking of something besides his lost fortune and
                            Suzanne.
                        "I think it advisable to tell you, Mr. Witla," said the
                            old surgeon, "that your wife is in a serious condition. I
                            don't want to alarm you unnecessarilyit may all come out very
                            satisfactorily. I have no positive reason to be sure that it will not.
                            She is pretty old to have a child. Her muscles are set. The principal
                            thing we have to fear in her case is some untoward complication with her
                            kidneys. There is always difficulty in the delivery of the head in women
                            of her age. It may be necessary  to
                            sacrifice the child. I can't be sure. The Csarian operation is
                            something I never care to think about. It is rarely used, and it
                            isn't always successful. Every care that can be taken will be
                            taken. I should like to have you understand the conditions. Your consent
                            will be asked before any serious steps are taken. Your decision will
                            have to be quick, however, when the time comes."
                        "I can tell you now, doctor, what my decision will be,"
                            said Eugene realizing fully the gravity of the situation. For the time
                            being, his old force and dignity were restored. "Save her life
                            if you can by any means that you can. I have no other
                            wish."
                        "Thanks," said the surgeon. "We will do the
                            best we can."
                        There were hours after that when Eugene, sitting by Angela, saw her
                            endure pain which he never dreamed it was possible for any human being
                            to endure. He saw her draw herself up rigid time and again, the color
                            leaving her face, the perspiration breaking out on her forehead only to
                            relax and flush and groan without really crying out. He saw, strange to
                            relate, that she was no baby like himself, whimpering over every little
                            ill, but a representative of some great creative force which gave her
                            power at once to suffer greatly and to endure greatly. She could not
                            smile any more. That was not possible. She was in a welter of suffering,
                            unbroken, astonishing. Myrtle had gone home to her dinner, but promised
                            to return later. Miss De Sale came, bringing another nurse, and while
                            Eugene was out of the room, Angela was prepared for the final ordeal.
                            She was arrayed in the usual open back hospital slip and white linen
                            leggings. Under Doctor Lambert's orders an operating table was
                            got ready in the operating room on the top floor and a wheel table
                            stationed outside the door, ready to remove her if necessary. He had
                            left word that at the first evidence of the genuine child-bearing pain,
                            which the nurse understood so well, he was to be called. The house
                            surgeon was to be in immediate charge of the case.
                        Eugene wondered in this final hour at the mechanical, practical,
                            business-like manner in which all these tragediesthe hospital was full
                            of womenwere taken. Miss De Sale went about her duties calm, smiling,
                            changing the pillows occasionally for Angela, straightening the
                            disordered bedclothes, adjusting the window curtains, fixing her own
                            lace cap or apron before the mirror which was attached to the dresser,
                            or before the one that was set in the closet door, and doing other
                            little things without number. She took no interest in Eugene's
                            tense  attitude, or Myrtle's when
                            she was there, but went in and out, talking, jesting with other nurses,
                            doing whatever she had to do quite undisturbed.
                        "Isn't there anything that can be done to relieve her
                            of this pain?" Eugene asked wearily at one point. His own
                            nerves were torn. "She can't stand anything like that.
                            She hasn't the strength."
                        She shook her head placidly. "There isn't a thing that
                            anyone can do. We can't give her an opiate. It stops the
                            process. She just has to bear it. All women do."
                        "All women," thought Eugene. Good God! Did all women go
                            through a siege like this every time a child was born? There were two
                            billion people on the earth now. Had there been two billion such scenes?
                            Had he come this way?Angela? every child? What a terrible mistake she
                            had madeso unnecessary, so foolish. It was too late now, though, to
                            speculate concerning this. She was suffering. She was agonizing.
                        The house surgeon came back after a time to look at her condition, but
                            was not at all alarmed apparently. He nodded his head rather
                            reassuringly to Miss De Sale, who stood beside him. "I think
                            she's doing all right," he said.
                        "I think so, too," she replied.
                        Eugene wondered how they could say this. She was suffering horribly.
                        "I'm going into Ward A for an hour," said the
                            doctor. "If any change comes you can get me
                            there."
                        "What change could come," asked Eugene of himself,
                            "any worse than had already appeared?" He was thinking
                            of the drawings, though, he had seen in the bookwondering if Angela
                            would have to be assisted in some of the grim, mechanical ways indicated
                            there. They illustrated to him the deadly possibilities of what might
                            follow.
                        About midnight the expected change, which Eugene in agonized sympathy was
                            awaiting, arrived. Myrtle had not returned. She had been waiting to hear
                            from Eugene. Although Angela had been groaning before, pulling herself
                            tense at times, twisting in an aimless, unhappy fashion, now she seemed
                            to spring up and fall as though she had fainted. A shriek accompanied
                            the movement, and then another and another. He rushed to the door, but
                            the nurse was there to meet him.
                        "It's here," she said quietly. She went to a
                            phone outside and called for Dr. Willets. A second nurse from some other
                            room came in and stood beside her. In spite of the knotted cords on
                            Angela's face, the swollen veins, the purple hue, they  were calm. Eugene could scarcely believe
                            it, but he made an intense effort to appear calm himself. So this was
                            childbirth!
                        In a few moments Dr. Willets came in. He also was calm, business like,
                            energetic. He was dressed in a black suit and white linen jacket, but
                            took that off, leaving the room as he did so, and returned with his
                            sleevs rolled up and his body incased in a long white apron, such as
                            Eugene had seen butchers wear. He went over to Angela and began working
                            with her, saying something to the nurse beside him which Eugene did not
                            hear. He could not lookhe dared not at first.
                        At the fourth or fifth convulsive shriek, a second doctor came in, a
                            young man of Willets' age, and dressed as he was, who also took
                            his place beside him. Eugene had never seen him before. "Is it
                            a case of forceps?" he asked.
                        "I can't tell," said the other. "Dr.
                            Lambert is handling this personally. He ought to be here by
                            now."
                        There was a step in the hall and the senior physician or obstetrician had
                            entered. In the lower hall he had removed his great coat and fur gloves.
                            He was dressed in his street clothes, but after looking at Angela,
                            feeling her heart and temples, he went out and changed his coat for an
                            apron, like the others. His sleeves were rolled up, but he did not
                            immediately do anything but watch the house surgeon, whose hands were
                            bloody.
                        "Can't they give her chloroform?" asked
                            Eugene, to whom no one was paying any attention, of Miss De Sale.
                        She scarcely heard, but shook her head. She was busy dancing attendance
                            on her very far removed superiors, the physicians.
                        "I would advise you to leave the room," said Dr.
                            Lambert to Eugene, coming over near him. "You can do nothing
                            here. You will be of no assistance whatsoever. You may be in the
                            way."
                        Eugene left, but it was only to pace agonizedly up and down the hall. He
                            thought of all the things that had passed between him and Angelathe
                            yearsthe struggles. All at once he thought of Myrtle, and decided to
                            call her upshe wanted to be there. Then he decided for the moment he
                            would not. She could do nothing. Then he thought of the Christian
                            Science practitioner. Myrtle could get her to give Angela absent
                            treatment. Anything, anythingit was a shame that she should suffer
                            so.
                        "Myrtle," he said nervously over the phone, when he
                            reached her, "this is Eugene. Angela is suffering terribly. The
                            birth is on. Can't you get Mrs. Johns to help her?
                            It's terrible!"
                        "Certainly, Eugene. I'll come right down.
                            Don't worry."
                        
                        He hung up the receiver and walked up and down the hall again. He could
                            hear mumbled voiceshe could hear muffled screams. A nurse, not Miss De
                            Sale, came out and wheeled in the operating table.
                        "Are they going to operate?" he asked feverishly.
                            "I'm Mr. Witla."
                        "I don't think so. I don't know. Dr. Lambert
                            wants her to be taken to the operating room in case it is
                            necessary."
                        They wheeled her out after a few moments and on to the elevator which led
                            to the floor above. Her face was slightly covered while she was being so
                            transferred, and those who were around prevented him from seeing just
                            how it was with her, but because of her stillness, he wondered, and the
                            nurse said that a very slight temporary opiate had been administerednot
                            enough to affect the operation, if it were found necessary. Eugene stood
                            by dumbly, terrified. He stood in the hall, outside the operating room,
                            half afraid to enter. The head surgeon's warning came back to
                            him, and, anyhow, what good could he do? He walked far down the dim-lit
                            length of the hall before him, wondering, and looked out on a space
                            where was nothing but snow. In the distance a long lighted train was
                            winding about a high trestle like a golden serpent. There were
                            automobiles -onking and pedestrians laboring along in
                            the snow. What a tangle life was, he thought. What a pity. Here a little
                            while ago, he wanted Angela to die, and now,God Almighty, that was her
                            voice groaning! He would be punished for his evil thoughtsyes, he would.
                            His sins, all these terrible deeds would be coming home to him. They
                            were coming home to him now. What a tragedy his career was! What a
                            failure! Hot tears welled up into his eyes, his lower lip trembled, not
                            for himself, but for Angela. He was so sorry all at once. He shut it all
                            back. No, by God, he wouldn't cry! What good were tears? It was
                            for Angela his pain was, and tears would not help her now.
                        Thoughts of Suzanne came to himMrs. Dale, Colfax, but he shut them out.
                            If they could see him now! Then another muffled scream and he walked
                            quickly back. He couldn't stand this.
                        He didn't go in, however. Instead he listened intently, hearing
                            something which sounded like gurgling, choking breathing. Was that
                            Angela?
                        "The low forceps"it was Dr. Lambert's
                            voice.
                        "The high forceps." It was his voice again. Something
                                -linked like metal in a bowl.
                        
                        "It can't be done this way, I'm
                            afraid," it was Dr. Lambert's voice again.
                            "We'll have to operate. I hate to do it,
                            too."
                        A nurse came out to see if Eugene were near. "You had better go
                            down into the waiting room, Mr. Witla," she cautioned.
                            "They'll be bringing her out pretty soon. It
                            won't be long now."
                        "No," he said all at once, "I want to see for
                            myself." He walked into the room where Angela was now lying on
                            the operating table in the centre of the room. A six-globed electrolier
                            blazed close overhead. At her head was Dr. Willets, administering the
                            ansthetic. On the right side was Dr. Lambert, his hands encased in
                            rubber gloves, bloody, totally unconscious of Eugene, holding a scalpel.
                            One of the two nurses was near Angela's feet, officiating at a
                            little table of knives, bowls, water, sponges, bandages. On the left of
                            the table was Miss De Sale. Her hands were arranging some cloths at the
                            side of Angela's body. At her side, opposite Dr. Lambert, was
                            another surgeon whom Eugene did not know. Angela was breathing
                            stertorously. She appeared to be unconscious. Her face was covered with
                            cloths and a rubber mouth piece or cone. Eugene cut his palms with his
                            nails.
                        So they have to operate, after all, he thought. She is as bad as that.
                            The Csarian operation. Then they couldn't even get the child
                            from her by killing it. Seventy-five per cent. of the cases recorded
                            were successful, so the book said, but how many cases were not recorded.
                            Was Dr. Lambert a great surgeon? Could Angela stand etherwith her weak
                            heart?
                        He stood there looking at this wonderful picture while Dr. Lambert
                            quickly washed his hands. He saw him take a small gleaming steel
                            knifebright as polished silver. The old man's hands were
                            encased in rubber gloves, which looked bluish white under the light.
                            Angela's exposed flesh was the color of a candle. He bent over
                            her. "Keep her breathing normal if you can," he said
                            to the young doctor. "If she wakes give her ether. Doctor,
                            you'd better look after the arteries." He cut softly a
                            little cut just below the centre of the abdomen apparently, and Eugene
                            saw little trickling streams of blood spring where his blade touched. It
                            did not seem a great cut. A nurse was sponging away the blood as fast as
                            it flowed. As he cut again, the membrane that underlies the muscles of
                            the abdomen and protects the intestines seemed to spring into view.
                            "I don't want to cut too much," said the
                            surgeon calmly  almost as though he were
                            talking to himself. "These intestines are apt to become
                            unmanageable. If you just lift up the ends, doctor. That's
                            right. The sponge, Miss Wood. Now, if we can just cut here
                            enough"he was cutting again like an honest carpenter or cabinet
                            worker. He dropped the knife he held into Miss Wood's bowl of
                            water. He reached into the bleeding wound, constantly sponged by the
                            nurse, exposing something. What was that? Eugene's heart
                            jerked. He was reaching down now in there with his middle fingerhis fore
                            and middle fingers afterwards, and saying, "I don't
                            find the leg. Let's see. Ah, yes. Here we have it!"
                            "Can I move the head a little for you, doctor?" It was
                            the young doctor at his left talking. "Careful! Careful!
                            It's bent under in the region of the coccyx. I have it now,
                            though. Slowly, doctor, look out for the placenta." Something
                            was coming up out of this horrible cavity, which was trickling with
                            blood from the cut. It was queera little foot, a leg, a body, a head.
                            "As God is my judge," said Eugene to himself, his eyes
                            brimming again. "The placenta, doctor. Look after the
                            peritoneum, Miss Wood. It's alive, all right. How is her pulse,
                            Miss De Sale?" "A little weak, doctor."
                            "Use less ether. There, now we have it! We'll put that
                            back. Sponge. We'll have to sew this afterwards, Willets. I
                            won't trust this to heal alone. Some surgeons think it will,
                            but I mistrust her recuperative power. Three or four stitches,
                            anyhow." They were working like carpenters, cabinet workers,
                            electricians. Angela might have been a lay figure for all they seemed to
                            care. And yet there was a tenseness here, a great hurry through slow
                            sure motion. "The less haste, the more speed," popped
                            into Eugene's mindthe old saw. He stared as if this were all a
                            dreama nightmare. It might have been a great picture like
                            Rembrandt's "The Night Watch." One young
                            doctor, the one he did not know, was holding aloft a purple object by
                            the foot. It might have been a skinned rabbit, but Eugene's
                            horrified eyes realized that it was his childAngela's childthe
                            thing all this horrible struggle and suffering was about. It was
                            discolored, impossible, a myth, a monster. He could scarcely believe his
                            eyes, and yet the doctor was  striking it
                            on the back with his hand, looking at it curiously. At the same moment
                            came a faint crynot a cry, eitheronly a faint, queer sound.
                        "She's awfully little, but I guess she'll make
                            out." It was Dr. Willets talking of the baby. Angela's
                            baby. Now the nurse had it. That was Angela's flesh they had
                            been cutting. That was Angela's wound they were sewing. This
                            wasn't life. It was a nightmare. He was insane and being
                            bedeviled by spirits.
                        "Now, doctor, I guess that will keep. The blankets, Miss De
                            Sale. You can take her away."
                        They were doing lots of things to Angela, fastening bandages about her,
                            removing the cone from her mouth, changing her position back to one of
                            lying flat, preparing to bathe her, moving her to the rolling table,
                            wheeling her out while she moaned unconscious under ether.
                        Eugene could scarcely stand the sickening, stertorous breathing. It was
                            such a strange sound to come from heras if her unconscious soul were
                            crying. And the child was crying, too, healthily.
                        "Oh, God, what a life, what a life!" he thought. To
                            think that things should have to come this way. Death, incisions!
                            unconsciousness! pain! Could she live? Would she? And now he was a
                            father.
                        He turned and there was the nurse holding this littlest girl on a white
                            gauze blanket or cushion. She was doing something to itrubbing oil on
                            it. It was a pink child now, like any other baby.
                        "That isn't so bad, is it?" she asked
                            consolingly. She wanted to restore Eugene to a sense of the commonplace.
                            He was so distracted looking.
                        Eugene stared at it. A strange feeling came over him. Something went up
                            and down his body from head to toe, doing something to him. It was a
                            nervous, titillating, pinching feeling. He touched the child. He looked
                            at its hands, its face. It looked like Angela. Yes, it did. It was his
                            child. It was hers. Would she live? Would he do better? Oh, God, to have
                            this thrust at him now, and yet it was his child. How could he? Poor
                            little thing. If Angela diedif Angela died, he would have this and
                            nothing else, this little girl out of all her long, dramatic struggle.
                            If she died, came this. To do what to him? To guide? To strengthen? To
                            change? He could not say. Only, somehow, in spite of himself, it was
                            beginning to appeal to him. It was the child of a storm. And Angela, so
                                 near him nowwould she ever live to
                            see it? There she was unconscious, numb, horribly cut. Dr. Lambert was
                            taking a last look at her before leaving.
                        "Do you think she will live, doctor?" he asked the
                            great surgeon feverishly. The latter looked grave.
                        "I can't say. I can't say. Her strength
                            isn't all that it ought to be. Her heart and kidneys make a bad
                            combination. However, it was a last chance. We had to take it.
                            I'm sorry. I'm glad we were able to save the child.
                            The nurse will give her the best of care."
                        He went out into his practical world as a laborer leaves his work. So may
                            we all. Eugene went over and stood by Angela. He was tremendously sorry
                            for the long years of mistrust that had brought this about. He was
                            ashamed of himself, of lifeof its strange tangles. She was so little, so
                            pale, so worn. Yes, he had done this. He had brought her here by his
                            lying, his instability, his uncertain temperament. It was fairly murder
                            from one point of view, and up to this last hour he had scarcely
                            relented. But life had done things to him, too. Now, now Oh, hell, Oh,
                            God damn! If she would only recover, he would try and do better. Yes, he
                            would. It sounded so silly coming from him, but he would try. Love
                            wasn't worth the agony it cost. Let it go. Let it go. He could
                            live. Truly there were hierarchies and powers, as Alfred Russel Wallace
                            pointed out. There was a God somewhere. He was on His throne. These
                            large, dark, immutable forces, they were not for nothing. If she would
                            only not die, he would tryhe would behave. He would! he would!
                        He gazed at her, but she looked so weak, so pale now he did not think she
                            could come round.
                        "Don't you want to come home with me, Eugene?"
                            said Myrtle, who had come back some time before, at his elbow.
                            "We can't do anything here now. The nurse says she may
                            not become conscious for several hours. The baby is all right in their
                            care."
                        The baby! the baby! He had forgotten it, forgotten Myrtle. He was
                            thinking of the long dark tragedy of his lifethe miasma of it.
                        "Yes," he said wearily. It was nearly morning. He went
                            out and got into a taxi and went to his sister's home, but in
                            spite of his weariness, he could scarcely sleep. He rolled
                            feverishly.
                        In the morning he was up again, early, anxious to go back and see how
                            Angela wasand the child.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XXVIII
                        THE trouble with Angela's system, in addition to a weak heart,
                            was that it was complicated at the time of her delivery by that peculiar
                            manifestation of nervous distortion or convulsions known as eclampsia.
                            Once in every five hundred cases (or at least such was the statistical
                            calculation at the time), some such malady occurred to reduce the number
                            of the newborn. In every two such terminations one mother also died, no
                            matter what the anticipatory preparations were on the part of the most
                            skilled surgeons. Though not caused by, it was diagnosed by, certain
                            kidney changes. What Eugene had been spared while he was out in the hall
                            was the sight of Angela staring, her mouth pulled to one side in a
                            horrible grimace, her body bent back, canoe shape, the arms flexed, the
                            fingers and thumbs bending over each other to and fro, in and out,
                            slowly, not unlike a mechanical figure that is running down. Stupor and
                            unconsciousness had immediately followed, and unless the child had been
                            immediately brought into the world and the womb emptied, she and it
                            would have died a horrible death. As it was she had no real strength to
                            fight her way back to life and health. A Christian Science practitioner
                            was trying to "realize her identity with good" for
                            her, but she had no faith before and no consciousness now. She came to
                            long enough to vomit terribly, and then sank into a fever. In it she
                            talked of Eugene. She was in Blackwood, evidently, and wanted him to
                            come back to her. He held her hand and cried, for he knew that there was
                            never any recompense for that pain. What a dog he had been! He bit his
                            lip and stared out of the window.
                        Once he said: "Oh, I'm no damned good! I should have
                            died!"
                        That whole day passed without consciousness, and most of the night. At
                            two in the morning Angela woke and asked to see the baby. The nurse
                            brought it. Eugene held her hand. It was put down beside her, and she
                            cried for joy, but it was a weak, soundless cry. Eugene cried also.
                        "It's a girl, isn't it?" she
                            asked.
                        "Yes," said Eugene, and then, after a pause,
                            "Angela, I want to tell you something. I'm so sorry.
                            I'm ashamed. I want  you to get
                            well. I'll do better. Really I will." At the same time
                            he was wondering, almost subconsciously, whether he would or no.
                            Wouldn't it be all the same if she were really wellor
                            worse?
                        She caressed his hand. "Don't cry," she said,
                            "I'll be all right. I'm going to get well.
                            We'll both do better. It's as much my fault as yours.
                            I've been too hard." She worked at his fingers, but he
                            only choked. His vocal cords hurt him
                        "I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry," he
                            finally managed to say.
                        The child was taken away after a little while and Angela was feverish
                            again. She grew very weak, so weak that although she was conscious
                            later, she could not speak. She tried to make some signs. Eugene, the
                            nurse, Myrtle, understood. The baby. It was brought and held up before
                            her. She smiled a weak, yearning smile and looked at Eugene.
                            "I'll take care of her," he said, bending
                            over her. He swore a great oath to himself. He would be decenthe would
                            be clean henceforth and for ever. The child was put beside her for a
                            little while, but she could not move. She sank steadily and died.
                        Eugene sat by the bed holding his head in his hands. So, he had his wish.
                            She was really dead. Now he had been taught what it was to fly in the
                            face of conscience, instinct, immutable law. He sat there an hour while
                            Myrtle begged him to come away.
                        "Please, Eugene!" she said.
                            "Please!"
                        "No, no," he replied. "Where shall I go? I am
                            well enough here."
                        After a time he did go, however, wondering how he would adjust his life
                            from now on. Who would take care ofof
                        "Angela" came the name to his mind. Yes, he would call
                            her "Angela." He had heard someone say she was going
                            to have pale yellow hair.
                        The rest of this story is a record of philosophic doubt and speculation
                            and a gradual return to normality, his kind of normalitythe artistic
                            normality of which he was capable. He wouldhe thoughtnever again be the
                            maundering sentimentalist and enthusiast, imagining perfection in every
                            beautiful woman that he saw. Yet there was a period when, had Suzanne
                            returned suddenly, all would have been as before between them, and even
                            more so, despite his tremulousness of spirit, his speculative  interest in Christian Science as a way
                            out possibly, his sense of brutality, almost murder, in the case of
                            Angelafor, the old attraction still gnawed at his vitals. Although he
                            had Angela, junior, now to look after, and in a way to divert him,a
                            child whom he came speedily to delight inhis fortune to restore, and a
                            sense of responsibility to that abstract thing, society or public
                            opinion as represented by those he knew or who knew him, still there was
                            this ache and this non-controllable sense of adventure which freedom to
                            contract a new matrimonial alliance or build his life on the plan he
                            schemed with Suzanne gave him. Suzanne! Suzanne!how her face, her
                            gestures, her voice, haunted him. Not Angela, for all the pathos of her
                            tragic ending, but Suzanne. He thought of Angela oftenthose last hours
                            in the hospital, her last commanding look which meant "please
                            look after our child," and whenever he did so his vocal cords
                            tightened as under the grip of a hand and his eyes threatened to
                            overflow, but even so, and even then, that undertow, that mystic cord
                            that seemed to pull from his solar plexus outward, was to Suzanne and to
                            her only. Suzanne! Suzanne! Around her hair, the thought of her smile,
                            her indescribable presence, was built all that substance of romance
                            which he had hoped to enjoy and which now, in absence and probably final
                            separation, glowed with a radiance which no doubt the reality could
                            never have had.
                        "We are such stuff as dreams are made on and our little life is
                            rounded with a sleep." We are such stuff as dreams are made on,
                            and only of dreams are our keen, stinging realities compounded. Nothing
                            else is so moving, so vital, so painful as a dream.
                        For a time that first spring and summer, while Myrtle looked after little
                            Angela and Eugene went to live with her and her husband, he visited his
                            old Christian Science practitioner, Mrs. Johns. He had not been much
                            impressed with the result in Angela's case, but Myrtle
                            explained the difficulty of the situation in a plausible way. He was in
                            a terrific state of depression, and it was while he was so that Myrtle
                            persuaded him to go again. She insisted that Mrs. Johns would overcome
                            his morbid gloom, anyhow, and make him feel better. "You want
                            to come out of this, Eugene," she pleaded. "You will
                            never do anything until you do. You are a big man. Life isn't
                            over. It's just begun. You're going to get well and
                            strong again. Don't worry. Everything that is is for the
                            best."
                        He went once, quarreling with himself for doing so, for in spite of his
                            great shocks, or rather because of them, he had no  faith in religious conclusions of any kind. Angela had not
                            been saved. Why should he?
                        Still the metaphysical urge was somethingit was so hard to suffer
                            spiritually and not believe there was some way out. At times he hated
                            Suzanne for her indifference. If ever she came back he would show her.
                            There would be no feeble urgings and pleadings the next time. She had
                            led him into this trap, knowing well what she was doingfor she was wise
                            enoughand then had lightly deserted him. Was that the action of a large
                            spirit? he asked himself. Would the wonderful something he thought he
                            saw there be capable of that? Ah, those hours at Daleviewthat one
                            stinging encounter in Canada!the night she danced with him so
                            wonderfully!
                        During a period of nearly three years all the vagaries and alterations
                            which can possibly afflict a groping and morbid mind were his. He went
                            from what might be described as almost a belief in
                            Christian Science to almost a belief that a devil ruled the world, a
                            Gargantuan Brobdingnagian Mountebank, who plotted tragedy for all ideals
                            and rejoiced in swine and dullards and a grunting, sweating, beefy
                            immorality. By degrees his God, if he could have been said to have had
                            one in his consciousness, sank back into a dual personality or a
                            compound of good and evilthe most ideal and ascetic good, as well as the
                            most fantastic and swinish evil. His God, for a time at least, was a God
                            of storms and horrors as well as of serenities and perfections. He then
                            reached a state not of abnegation, but of philosophic open-mindedness or
                            agnosticism. He came to know that he did not know what to believe. All
                            apparently was permitted, nothing fixed. Perhaps life loved only change,
                            equation, drama, laughter. When in moments of private speculation or
                            social argument he was prone to condemn it loudest, he realized that at
                            worst and at best it was beautiful, artistic, gay, that, however, he
                            might age, groan, complain, withdraw, wither, still, in spite of him,
                            this large thing which he at once loved and detested was sparkling on.
                            He might quarrel, but it did not care; he might fail or die, but it
                            could not. He was negligiblebut, oh, the sting and delight of its inner
                            shrines and favorable illusions.
                        And curiously, for a time, even while he was changing in this way, he
                            went back to see Mrs. Johns, principally because he liked her. She
                            seemed to be a motherly soul to him, contributing some of the old
                            atmosphere he had enjoyed in his own home in Alexandria. This woman,
                            from working constantly in the esoteric depths, which Mrs.
                            Eddy's book suggests, demostrating  for herself, as she thought, through her belief in or understanding
                            of, the oneness of the universe (its non-malicious, affectionate
                            control, the non-existence of fear, pain, disease, and death itself),
                            had become so grounded in her faith that evil positively did not exist
                            save in the belief of mortals, that at times she almost convinced Eugene
                            that it was so. He speculated long and deeply along these lines with
                            her. He had come to lean on her in his misery quite as a boy might on
                            his mother.
                        The universe to her was, as Mrs. Eddy said, spiritual, not material, and
                            no wretched condition, however seemingly powerful, could hold against
                            the truthcould gainsay divine harmony. God was good. All that is, is
                            God. Hence all that is, is good or it is an illusion. It could not be
                            otherwise. She looked at Eugene's case, as she had at many a
                            similar one, being sure, in her earnest way, that she, by realizing his
                            ultimate fundamental spirituality, could bring him out of his illusions,
                            and make him see the real spirituality of things, in which the world of
                            flesh and desire had no part.
                        "Beloved," she loved to quote to him, "now are
                            we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be, but we
                            know that when he shall appear"(and she explained that he was this universal spirit of perfection of which we
                            are a part)"we shall be like him; for we shall see him as He
                            is."
                        "And every man that has this hope in him purifieth himself even
                            as He is pure."
                        She once explained to him that this did not mean that the man must purify
                            himself by some hopeless moral struggle, or emaciating abstinance, but
                            rather that the fact that he had this hope of something better in him,
                            would fortify him in spite of himself.
                        "You laugh at me," she said to him one day,
                            "but I tell you you are a child of God. There is a divine spark
                            in you. It must come out. I know it will. All this other thing will fall
                            away as a bad dream. It has no reality."
                        She even went so far in a sweet motherly way as to sing hymns to him, and
                            now, strange to relate, her thin voice was no longer irritating to him,
                            and her spirit made her seemingly beautiful in his eyes. He did not try
                            to adjust the curiosities and anomalies of material defects in so far as
                            she was concerned. The fact that her rooms were anything but
                            artistically perfect; that her body was shapeless, or comparatively so,
                            when contrasted with that standard of which he had always been so
                            conscious; the fact that whales were accounted by her in some weird way
                            as spiritual, and bugs and torturesome insects of all  kinds as emanations of mortal mind, did
                            not trouble him at all. There was something in this thought of a
                            spiritual universof a kindly universe, if you sought to make it so,
                            which pleased him. The five senses certainly could not indicate the
                            totality of things; beyond them must lie depths upon depths of wonder
                            and power. Why might not this act? Why might it not be good? That book
                            that he had once read"The World Machine"had indicated
                            this planetary life as being infinitesimally small; that from the point
                            of view of infinity it was not even thinkableand yet here it appeared to
                            be so large. Why might it not be, as Carlyle had said, a state of mind,
                            and as such, so easily dissolvable. These thoughts grew by degrees, in
                            force, in power.
                        At the same time he was beginning to go out again a little. A chance
                            meeting with M. Charles, who grasped his hand warmly and wanted to know
                            where he was and what he was doing, revived his old art fever. M.
                            Charles suggested, with an air of extreme interest, that he should get
                            up another exhibition along whatever line he chose.
                        "You!" he said, with a touch of heartening sympathy,
                            and yet with a glow of fine corrective scorn, for he considered Eugene
                            as an artist only, and a very great one at that. "You,Eugene
                            Witlaan editora publisher! Pah! Youwho could have all the art lovers of
                            the world at your feet in a few years if you choseyou who could do more
                            for American art in your life time than anyone I know, wasting your time
                            art directing, art editingpublishing! Pouf! Aren't you really
                            ashamed of yourself? But it isn't too late. Come nowa fine
                            exhibition! What do you say to an exhibition of some kind next January
                            or February, in the full swing of the season? Everybody's
                            interested then. I will give you our largest gallery. How is that? What
                            do you say?" he glowed in a peculiarly Frenchy way,half
                            commanding, half inspiring or exhorting.
                        "If I can," said Eugene quietly, with a deprecating
                            wave of the hand, and a faint line of self-scorn about the corners of
                            his mouth. "It may be too late."
                        "'Too late! Too late!' What nonsense! Do you
                            say that to me? If you can! If you can! Well, I give you up! You with
                            your velvet textures and sure lines. It is too much. It is
                            unbelievable!"
                        He raised his hands, eyes, and eye-brows in Gallic despair. He shrugged
                            his shoulders, waiting to see a change of expression in Eugene.
                        "Very good!" said Eugene, when he heard this.
                            "Only I  can't promise
                            anything. We will see." And he wrote out his address.
                        This started him once more. The Frenchman, who had often heard him spoken
                            of and had sold all his earlier pictures, was convinced that there was
                            money in himif not here then abroadmoney and some repute for himself as
                            his sponsor. Some American artists must be encouragedsome must rise. Why not Eugene? Here was one who really deserved
                            it.
                        So Eugene worked, painting swiftly, feverishly, brilliantlywith a feeling
                            half the time that his old art force had deserted him for evereverything
                            that came into his mind. Taking a north lighted room near Myrtle he
                            essayed portraits of her and her husband, of her and baby Angela, making
                            arrangements which were classically simple. Then he chose models from
                            the streets,laborers, washerwomen, drunkardscharacters all, destroying
                            canvases frequently, but, on the whole, making steady progress. He had a
                            strange fever for painting life as he saw it, for indicating it with
                            exact portraits of itself, strange, grim presentations of its vagaries,
                            futilities, commonplaces, drolleries, brutalities. The mental,
                            fuzzy-wuzzy maunderings and meanderings of the mob fascinated him. The
                            paradox of a decaying drunkard placed against the vivid persistence of
                            life gripped his fancy. Somehow it suggested himself hanging on,
                            fighting on, accusing nature, and it gave him great courage to do it.
                            This picture eventually sold for eighteen thousand dollars, a record
                            price.
                        In the meantime his lost dream in the shape of Suzanne was traveling
                            abroad with her motherin England, Scotland, France, Egypt, Italy,
                            Greece. Aroused by the astonishing storm which her sudden and uncertain
                            fascination had brought on, she was now so shaken and troubled by the
                            disasters which had seemed to flow to Eugene in her wake, that she
                            really did not know what to do or think. She was still too young, too
                            nebulous. She was strong enough in body and mind, but very uncertain
                            philosophically and morallya dreamer and opportunist. Her mother,
                            fearful of some headstrong, destructive outburst in which her shrewdest
                            calculations would prove of no avail, was most anxious to be civil,
                            loving, courteous, politicanything to avoid a disturbing re-encounter
                            with the facts of the past, or a sudden departure on the part of
                            Suzanne, which she hourly feared. What was she to do? Anything Suzanne
                            wantedher least whim, her moods in dress, pleasure, travel, friendship,
                            were most assiduously catered to. Would she like to go here? would she
                            like to see that? would this amuse her? would that be pleasant?  And Suzanne, seeing always what her
                            mother's motives were, and troubled by the pain and disgrace
                            she had brought on Eugene, was uncertain now as to whether her conduct
                            had been right or not. She puzzled over it continually.
                        More terrifying, however, was the thought which came to her occasionally
                            as to whether she had really loved Eugene at all or not. Was this not a
                            passing fancy? Had there not been some chemistry of the blood, causing
                            her to make a fool of herself, without having any real basis in
                            intellectual rapprochement. Was Eugene truly the one man with whom she
                            could have been happy? Was he not too adoring, too headstrong, too
                            foolish and mistaken in his calculations? Was he the able person she had
                            really fancied him to be? Would she not have come to dislike himto hate
                            him evenin a short space of time? Could they have been truly,
                            permanently happy? Would she not be more interested in one who was
                            sharp, defiant, indifferentone whom she could be compelled to adore and
                            fight for rather than one who was constantly adoring her and needing her
                            sympathy? A strong, solid, courageous manwas not such a one her ideal,
                            after all? And could Eugene be said to be that? These and other
                            questions tormented her constantly.
                        It is strange, but life is constantly presenting these pathetic
                            paradoxesthese astounding blunders which temperament and blood moods
                            bring about and reason and circumstance and convention condemn. The
                            dreams of man are one thinghis capacity to realize them another. At
                            either pole are the accidents of supreme failure and supreme successthe
                            supreme failure of an Ablard for instance, the supreme success of a
                            Napoleon, enthroned at Paris. But, oh, the endless failures for one
                            success.
                        But in this instance it cannot be said that Suzanne had definitely
                            concluded that she did not love him. Far from it. Although the cleverest
                            devices were resorted to by Mrs. Dale to bring her into contact with
                            younger and to hernowmore interesting personalities, Suzannevery much of
                            an introspective dreamer and quiet spectator herself, was not to be
                            swiftly deluded by love againif she had been deluded. She had half
                            decided to study men from now on, and use them, if need be, waiting for
                            the time when some act, of Eugene's, perhaps, or some other
                            personality, might decide for her. The strange, destructive spell of her
                            beauty began to interest her, for now she knew that she really was
                            beautiful. She looked in her mirror very frequently nowat the artistry
                            of a curl, the curve of her chin, her cheek, her arm. If ever she went
                            back to Eugene  how well she would repay
                            him for his agony. But would she? Could she? Would he have not recovered
                            his sanity and be able to snap his fingers in her face and smile
                            superciliously? For, after all, no doubt he was a wonderful man and
                            would shine as something somewhere soon again. And when he didwhat would
                            he think of herher silence, her desertion, her moral cowardice?
                        "After all, I am not of much account," she said to
                            herself. "But what he thought of me!that was wonderful! Really
                            he was wonderful!"
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XXIX
                        THE dnouement of all this, as much as ever could be, was still two years
                            off. By that time Suzanne was considerably more sobered, somewhat more
                            intellectually cultivated, a little coolernot colder exactlyand somewhat
                            more critical. Men, when it came to her type of beauty, were a little
                            too suggestive of their amorousness. After Eugene their proffers of
                            passion, adoration, undying love, were not so significant.
                        But one day in New York on Fifth Avenue, there was a reencounter. She was
                            shopping with her mother, but their ways, for a moment, were divided. By
                            now Eugene was once more in complete possession of his faculties. The
                            old ache had subsided to a dim but colorful mirage of beauty that was
                            always in his eye. Often he had thought what he would do if he saw
                            Suzanne againwhat say, if anything. Would he smile, bowand if there were
                            an answering light in her eye, begin his old courtship all over, or
                            would he find her changed, cold, indifferent? Would he be indifferent,
                            sneering? It would be hard on him, perhaps, afterwards, but it would pay
                            her out and serve her right. If she really cared, she ought to be made
                            to suffer for being a waxy fool and tool in the hands of her mother. He
                            did not know that she had heard of his wife's deaththe birth of
                            his childand that she had composed and destroyed five different letters,
                            being afraid of reprisal, indifference, scorn.
                        She had heard of his rise to fame as an artist once more, for the
                            exhibition had finally come about, and with it great praise, generous
                            acknowledgments of his abilityartists admired him most of all. They
                            thought him strange, eccentric, but great. M. Charles had suggested to a
                            great bank director that his new bank in the financial district be
                            decorated by Eugene alone, which was eventually donenine great panels in
                            which he expressed deeply some of his feeling for life. At Washington,
                            in two of the great public buildings and in three state capitols were
                            tall, glowing panels also of his energetic dreaming,a brooding
                            suggestion of beauty that never was on land or sea. Here and there in
                            them you might have been struck by a facean arm, a cheek, an eye. If you
                            had ever known Suzanne as she was you would have known the basisthe
                            fugitive spirit at the bottom of all these things.
                        But in spite of that he now hated heror told himself that  he did. Under the heel of his
                            intellectuality was the face, the beauty that he adored. He despised and
                            yet loved it. Life had played him a vile tricklovethus to frenzy his
                            reason and then to turn him out as mad. Now, never again, should love
                            affect him, and yet the beauty of woman was still his great lureonly he
                            was the master.
                        And then one day Suzanne appeared.
                        He scarcely recognized her, so sudden it was and so quickly ended. She
                            was crossing Fifth Avenue at Forty-second Street. He was coming out of a
                            jeweler's, with a birthday ring for little Angela. Then the
                            eyes of this girl, a pale looka flash of something wonderful that he
                            remembered and then
                        He stared curiouslynot quite sure.
                        "He does not even recognize me," thought Suzanne,
                            "or he hates me now. Oh!all in five years!"
                        "It is she, I believe," he said to himself,
                            "though I am not quite sure. Well, if it is she can go to the
                            devil!" His mouth hardened. "I will cut her as she
                            deserves to be cut," he thought. "She shall never know
                            that I care."
                        And so they passed,never to meet in this worldeach always wishing, each
                            defying, each folding a wraith of beauty to the heart.
                    
                    
                    
                        L'ENVOI
                        THERE appears to be in metaphysics a basis, or no basis, according as the
                            temperament and the experience of each shall incline him, for ethical or
                            spiritual ease or peace. Life sinks into the unknowable at every turn
                            and only the temporary or historical scene remains as a guide,and that
                            passes also. It may seem rather beside the mark that Eugene in his moral
                            and physical depression should have inclined to various religious
                            abstrusities for a time, but life does such things in a storm. They
                            constituted a refuge from himself, from his doubts and despairs as
                            religious thought always does.
                        If I were personally to define religion I would say that it is a bandage
                            that man has invented to protect a soul made bloody by circumstance; an
                            envelope to pocket him from the unescapable and unstable illimitable. We
                            seek to think of things as permanent and see them so. Religion gives
                            life a habitation and a name apparentlythough it is an illusion. So we
                            are brought back to time and space and illimitable mind as what? And we
                            shall always stand before them attributing to them all those things
                            which we cannot know.
                        Yet the need for religion is impermanent, all else in life. As the soul
                            regains its health, it becomes prone to the old illusions. Again women
                            entered his lifenever believe otherwisedrawn, perhaps, by a certain
                            wistfulness and loneliness in Eugene, who though quieted by tragedy for
                            a little while was once more moving in the world. He saw their approach
                            with more skepticism, and yet not unmovedwomen who came through the
                            drawing rooms to which he was invited, wives and daughters who sought to
                            interest him in themselves and would scarcely take no for an answer;
                            women of the stagewomen artists, poetasters,
                            "varietists," critics, dreamers. From the many
                            approaches, letters and meetings, some few relationships resulted,
                            ending as others had ended. Was he not changed, then? Not muchno. Only
                            hardened intellectually and emotionallytempered for life and work. There
                            were scenes, too, violent ones, tears, separations, renouncements, cold
                            meetingswith little Angela always to one side in Myrtle's care
                            as a stay and consolation.
                        In Eugene one saw an artist who, pagan to the core, enjoyed reading the
                            Bible for its artistry of expression, and Schopenhauer, Nietzsche,
                            Spinoza and James for the mystery of things  which they suggested. In his child he found a charming personality
                            and a study as wellone whom he could brood over with affectionate
                            interest at times, seeing already something of himself and something of
                            Angela, and wondering at the outcome. What would she be like? Would art
                            have any interest for her? She was so daring, gay, self-willed, he
                            thought.
                        "You've a Tartar on your hands," Myrtle once
                            said to him, and he smiled as he replied:
                        "Just the same I'll see if I can't keep up
                            with her."
                        One of his occasional thoughts was that if he and Angela, junior, came to
                            understand each other thoroughly, and she did not marry too soon, he
                            could build a charming home around her. Perhaps her husband might not
                            object to living with them.
                        The last scene of all may be taken from his studio in Montclair, where
                            with Myrtle and her husband as resident housekeepers and Angela as his
                            diversion he was living and working. He was sitting in front of his
                            fireplace one night reading, when a thought in some history recalled to
                            his mind a paragraph somewhere in Spencer's astonishing
                            chapters on "the unknowable" in his "Facts
                            and Comments," and he arose to see if he could find it.
                            Rummaging around in his books he extracted the volume and reread it,
                            with a kind of smack of intellectual agreement, for it suited his mood
                            in regard to life and his own mental state in particular. Because it was
                            so peculiarly related to his own viewpoint I quote it:
                        "Beyond the reach of our intelligence as are the mysteries of
                            the objects known by our senses, those presented in this universal
                            matrix are, if we may say so, still further beyond the reach of our
                            intelligence, for whereas, those of the one kind may be, and are,
                            thought of by many as explicable on the hypothesis of creation, and by
                            the rest on the hypothesis of evolution, those of the other kind cannot
                            by either be regarded as thus explicable. Theist and Agnostic must agree
                            in recognizing the properties of Space as inherent, eternal, uncreatedas
                            anteceding all creation, if creation has taken place. Hence, could we
                            penetrate the mysteries of existence, there would still remain more
                            transcendent mysteries. That which can be thought of as neither made nor
                            evolved presents us with facts the origin of which is even more remote
                            from conceivability than is the origin of the facts presented by visible
                            and tangible things. . . . The thought of this blank form of existence
                            which, explored in all directions as far as eye can reach, has, beyond
                            that, an unexplored region compared with which the part imagination  has traversed is but infinitesimalthe
                            thought of a space, compared with which our immeasurable sidereal system
                            dwindles to a point, is a thought too overwhelming to be dwelt upon. Of
                            late years the consciousness that without origin or cause, infinite
                            space has ever existed and must ever exist produces in me a feeling from
                            which I shrink."
                        "Well," said Eugene, turning as he thought he heard a
                            slight noise, "that is certainly the sanest interpretation of
                            the limitations of human thought I have ever read"and then
                            seeing the tiny Angela enter, clad in a baggy little sleeping suit which
                            was not unrelated to a Harlequin costume, he smiled, for he knew her
                            wheedling, shifty moods and tricks.
                        "Now what are you coming in here for?" he asked, with
                            mock severity. "You know you oughn't to be up so late.
                            If Auntie Myrtle catches you!"
                        "But I can't sleep, Daddy," she replied
                            trickily, anxious to be with him a little while longer before the fire,
                            and tripping coaxingly across the floor. "Won't you
                            take me?"
                        "Yes, I know all about your not being able to sleep, you scamp.
                            You're coming in here to be cuddled. You beat it!"
                        "Oh, no, Daddy!"
                        "All right, then, come here." And he gathered her up in
                            his arms and reseated himself by the fire. "Now you go to sleep
                            or back you go to bed."
                        She snuggled down, her yellow head in his crook'd elbow while he
                            looked at her cheek, recalling the storm in which she had arrived.
                        "Little flower girl," he said. "Sweet little
                            kiddie."
                        His offspring made no reply. Presently he carried her asleep to her
                            couch, tucked her in, and, coming back, went out on the brown lawn,
                            where a late November wind rustled in the still clinging brown leaves.
                            Overhead were the starsOrion's majestic belt and those mystic
                            constellations that make Dippers, Bears, and that remote cloudy
                            formation known as the Milky Way.
                        "Where in all thisin substance," he thought, rubbing
                            his hand through his hair, "is Angela? Where in substance will
                            be that which is me? What a sweet welter life ishow rich, how tender,
                            how grim, how like a colorful symphony."
                        Great art dreams welled up into his soul as he viewed the sparkling deeps
                            of space.
                        "The sound of the windhow fine it is tonight," he
                            thought. Then he went quietly in and closed the door.
                    
                
                THE END
            
        
    
